Report No. 925a-EC 
Ecuador: Appraisal of a                                                         FIE  Opy
Fourth Highway Project
March 15, 1976
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                     = Sucre (S/)
US$1                              = Sucre/ 25.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Met,ric
1 meter (m)                       = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                  = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kin2)         = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)              = 0.98 long ton (lg ton)
= 1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AADT                              -  Annual Average Daily Traffic
CEDEGE                            - River Guayas Basin Development Commission
ER                                - Economic Return
FONADE                            - Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
FONAPRE                           - Fondo Nacional de Preinversiones
FYB                               - First Year Benefit
JUNTAPLAN                         - National Planning Board
MOP                               - Ministry of Public Works and Communications



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....... .................         i-ii
1.   INTRODUCTION ..     .......................................    1
2.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ............................ *...        2
A.  General ............    ....... .............    2
B.   The Transport Modes ............         ...... .. .    2
C.   Action Required for Sectoral Infrastructure             3
D.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination ......    4
E.   Ir.vestments and Finance .. ................... .    6
3.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ..7
A.  The Highway Network .                                    7
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic..           8
C.   Highway Planning and Financing                          9
D.  Highway Administration .      ..........................   11
E.   Highway Engineering and Project Preparation .. ....  11
F.   Highway Construction ................... . ...............  11
G.   Highway Maintenance ...... ...........................   12
H.  Feeder Roads ................  .......                  14
4.   THE PROJECT .....................    14
A.  General Description ................... . .   14
B.   Improvpment of the Babahoyo-Balzapamba Road ......  15
C.  Maintenance Program .................. .1. .........   15
D.   Programs to Improve MOP's Planning and Engineering
Capabilities and to Improve the Capability of
the Local Civil Works Construction Industry ....   17
E.   Technical Assistance in Establishing a Transport
Planning and Coordinating Agency      ...............   17
F.   Integrated Rural Development Study .........O......   18
G.   Technical Assistance for Project Coordination ....   18
H.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements   ......  18
I.   Execution and Procurement               *              20
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. Varallyay (Engineer) and
Veniard (Economist) and has been edited by Miss V. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS - Continued
Page No.
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...................   21
A.  General .......*.....******.***.*******ee* *.....   21
B.   Improvement of the Babahoyo-Balzapamba Road           21
C.   Other Project Elements ...........................  25
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................   25
TABLES
1.   Estimates of Transport Sector Expenditures
2.   Highway Network
3.   Vehicle Fleet by Categories
4.   Highway Expenditures and Road Users' Contributions
5.   Design Standards
6.  Disbursement Schedule
7.   Babahoyo-Balzapamba Highway Traffic Flows
8.   Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs
9.   Economic Evaluation Results
ANNEXES
1.   Technical Assistance to Improve MOP's Capability for
Highway Planning and Preinvestment Studies
2.   Technical Assistance for Highway Maintenance
3.   Technical Assistance for Highway Engineering
4.   Assistance to Domestic Road Construction Industry
5.   Factors for Post Completion Monitoring of Domestic
Construction Industry
6.   Terms of Reference for Transport Planning and Coordination
7.   Integrated Rural Development in the Area of Influence of
the Puerto Ila-Garrapata Road
8.   Technical Assistance for Overall Project Supervision and
Coordination
9.   Project Implementation schedule
10.   Project Indicators
MAP
IBRD l1882Rl - Fourth Highway Project - Ecuador Transport Network



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for:  (a) improving an existing
road of the national highway network of Ecuador between Babahoyo and Balza-
pamba; (b) instituting a pilot maintenance program in one of the four mainte-
nance districts of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOP);
(c) improving planning at both sectoral and highway levels; (d) improving the
capabilities of the local civil works industry; (e) providing technical
assistance for an integrated rural development study in the area of influ-
ence of the Puerto Ila-Garrapata road; and (f) providing technical assis-
tance for overall project supervision and coordination.
ii.       Ecuador has benefited considerably from the discovery and develop-
ment of petroleum in the Amazon, necessitating a close scrutiny of all aspects
of the economy, including infrastructure elements such as transportation, to
ensure that each will be capable of playing its part in the general upsurge
of economic activity. As a result of this need, the Bank sent a mission, in
1974, to examine the transport sector in depth. The mission concluded that:
(a) the transport system is generally adequate for the current demand, but
that expansion and improvement will be required to meet future needs; and
(b) there are serious institutional deficiencies related to the sector,
mainly in the areas of sectoral planning and coordination among plans for the
individual modes. The proposed highway project emerges logically from the
findings of the mission since it would, inter alia, improve the service
provided by a segment of the national highway netwuork and would help planning
both at sectoral and highway levels.
iii.      Present deficiencies in planning in Ecuador are so serious that the
Government should, as a matter of urgency, set up an adequately staffed cen-
tralized unit which would be charged with: (a) ensuring the collection and
analysis of statistics relative to all transport modes and (b) planning for
the transport sector as a whole and coordinating such planning among the indi-
vidual modes. Technical assistance to help the Government in setting up such
a unit is included in the proposed project.
iv.       Project execution would be the responsibility of MOP, but thie rural
development study would be carried out in coordination with the 'linistrv of
Agriculture and the Fondo Nacional de Preinversiones (FO-APRE).  Civil works
for road construction and improvement would be carried out on the basis of
unit price contracts awarded after international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The works would be divided into lots
for bidding purposes, and prequalified firms would be allowed to bid for any
lot or combination of lots.



- ii -
v.        The civil works element of the proposed project, i.e., the works
on the Babahoyo-Balzapamba road, including supervision, represent about 62%
of the estimated project cost and have an economic return of about 14%.
Quantifiable benefits would derive from savings in vehicle operating, mainte-
nance and time costs.
vi.       The total project cost is estimaited at US$21 million equivalent with
a foreign exchange component of US$10.5 mi:Llion equivalent. This foreign ex-
change component represents about 50% of total project costs and assumes that
improvement of the Babahoyo-Balzapamba roacd would be executed by local con-
tractors and that technical assistance wou:Ld be provided by foreign con-
sultants.
vii.      It is proposed that the entire foreign exchange cost of the project
be covered by a Bank loan of US$10.5 million equivalent; local costs would be
financed by the Government. An appropriate term would be 25 years, including
a five-year grace period.



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank Group involvement in highways in Ecuador dates from 1954.
In that year, a loan (94-EC) was made to help finance a project which comprised
improvement of trunk roads in Guayas, the important province in which Guayaquil,
the country's largest city, is located. A further loan (176-EC) was made in
1957, and then, in 1964, a third project was financed by the Bank (Loan 379-EC),
the Association (Credit 51-EC), IDB and USAID in consortium, which helped to
finance improvement of trunk roads, acquisition of maintenance equipment and
consulting services.
1.02      The economy of Ecuador has benefited in recent years from the
discovery and development of petroleum in the Amazon region. This, in turn,
necessitated a close scrutiny of all aspects of the economy, including infra-
structure elements such as transportation, to ensure that each should be
capable of playing its part in the general upsurge of economic activity.
Although the Bank Group has maintained contact with the transport sector
through the Consortium Highway Project, the Bank, in 1974, considered that
a thorough analysis was warranted, particularly since it had been 10 years
since the sector had been reviewed comprehensively. Thus, in September 1974,
at the invitation of the Government, the Bank sent a mission comprising
specialists in all relevant modes to examine the transport sector in depth.
1.03      The report of that transport sector survey mission, completed in
mid-1975, concluded essentially: (a) that the transport system was generally
adequate for the current demand, but that expansion and improvement of the
system would be required to meet future needs; and (b) that there are serious
institutional deficiencies related to the sector, mainly in the area of
sectoral planning and coordination among the individual modes.
1.04      This proposed highway project emerges logically from the findings
of the 1974 sector mission since it would help rectify some of the short-
comings, both in physical and institutional terms, identified by the sector
mission. Physically, it would improve the service provided by two sections
of the national highway network, including the approach to Guayaquil; insti-
tutionally, it would help planning at both sectoral and highway levels and
would also examine the problems of the local civil works construction in-
dustry. In addition, it would address the problems of highway maintenance,
through a two-year program, and of feeder road development. The project is
estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent, and the proposed loan would
finance the foreign exchange component amounting to US$10.5 million.
1.05      The project was appraised by Messrs. Varallyay (Engineer) and Veniard
(Economist) in March 1975. The report has been edited by Miss V. Foster.



- 2 -
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2
2.01      Ecuador has an area of 271,000 km .  Its geographical configuration
has been a determining factor in the location of its population and economic
activities, as well as in the development of iLts transport network. Two
principal mountain chains, the western and eastern ranges of the Andes, run
from north to south and divide the country into three natural and distinct
regions: the coastal region (Costa), the mountain region (Sierra) and the
Amazon region (Oriente). Transport among theese three regions is difficult,
particularly access to the Oriente.
2.02      The principal land transport flows are to be found (a) in the two
corridors which extend from the Colombian border in the north to the Peruvian
border in the south - one following the Central Valley of the Andean chains
and servicing the capital, Quito, and the other following the Costa, from
Esneraldas, the chief port in the north, through Guayaquil, the country's
major port, to Puerto Bolivar in the south; (b) in the most important
corridor of the country, between Quito and Guayaquil; (c) between the
Oriente region and Esmeraldas - mainly crude oil transported by pipeline;
and (d) in the environs of the major urban areas.
B.   The Transport Modes
2.03      Five modes of transport are important in Ecuador; they are - in
decreasing order of importance - highways, shipping, pipelines, aviation and
railways. Highways and their administration are discussed in Chapter 3, and
the other modes may be summarized as follows.
(i) Shipping
2.04      Foreign and coastal shipping is handled through eight maritime ports
with widely varying natural, technical and operational characteristics -
GuayaquiL, Puerto Bolivar, Manta, Esmeraldas, San Lorenzo, Bahia de Caraques,
and the petroleum terminals of La Libertad in S;alinas and Balao in Esmeraldas.
The Bank is currently considering a project for expansion of the Port of
Guayaquil.
(ii) Pipelines
2.05      A pipeline for refined petroleum products extends from Duran, close
to Guayaquil, to Quito (358 km), and a crude oil pipeline extends from Lago
Agrio, in the Oriente, to the Port of Balao, in Esmeraldas (503 km). Smaller
feeder lines connect these pipelines to the oilfields, such as the Lago Agrio
to Shushufindi (16 km) and to Sacha (52 km),



-3-
(ili) Aviation
2.06      Thirteen airports are served by scheduled services; two of these
airports - Quito and Guayaquil - are also served by International carriers.
(iv) Railways
2.07      The rail network has a total length of 971 kb. The main line is
between Quito and Guayaquil, and there are branch lines south to Cuenca and
northwest to the port of San Lorenzo,
C.   Action Required for Sectoral Infrastructure
2.08      The present transport system of Ecuador is generally adequate, in
the inhabited areas of the Costa and Sierra, to the extent that it permits
the movement of passengers and freight within those areas. However, in many
cases, this transport is costly and the level of service is low, resulting
in systems which would be inadequate to meet the demands of increased regional
trade, the transport of export crops and the handling of the growing volumes
of imports. Furthermore, as the need to open new lands for productive use
becomes more pressing, the provision of adequate transport facilities to
those areas becomes an important objective. The Bank's Transport Sector
Survey Mission, after reviewing future traffic levels, including demands
that may be generated by investments in regional development and in specific
sectoral projects (notably, agricultural, rural development, and irrigation
and colonization projects), concluded that the Government's objectives in
the next few years should include at least:
(a) Expansion of the main road network, including further integration
of the Oriente, improvement of the major north-south corridors
(Pan-American Highway), etc.;
(b) Improvement of road access to major cities, especially Quito
and Guayaquil;
(c) Improvement of the capacity of seaports and rationalization
of the interface between maritime and land transport;
(d) Expansion of secondary and feeder road systems, complementing
high priority regional and rural development programs;
(e) Definition of the future role of state-owned railway lines;
(f) Expansion and improvement of air transport services in general,
and specifically for passengers, on both domestic and international
routes;
(g) Improvement in maritime shipping and greater use of inland
waterways, especially in the Oriente; and



- 4 -
(h) Expansion of the pipeline system for crude and refined
petroleum products.
The proposed project includes elements designed to help action in (a) preceding.
D.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.09      Five ministries and the National Planning Board (JUNTAPLAN) cur-
rently share authority in matters of transport policy in the country, with
the additional intervention of provincial governments at the local level.
Although JUNTAPLAN attempted the fornulation of national policies (for its
National Development Plan of 1973-1977), the effective policy-making has
remained for the most part a prerogative of the - often competing - agencies
indicated, which carried out their policies separately with little or no
control and coordination by JUNTAPLAN.
2.10      With regard to planning, in 1974, the Bank carried out an in-depth
survey of the transportation sector (para. 1.02). The report resulting from
the study indicated, inter alia, the following deficiencies:
(a) No one Government agency is responsible for overall sectoral
planning (efforts by JUNTAPLAN to play this role have not been
successful beyond defining. the general objectives of the sectpr
and formulating a list of policies for the National Economic
Plan 1973-1977.  This has been due in part to JUNTAPLAN's lack
of efficient control over all the agencies dealing with the
different transport modes and in part to limitations of its
present organization and staffing);
(b) Sectoral statistics are not collected, processed and retrieved
centrally, due, in part, to a lack of uniformity in the methods
of statistical work in the different modal agencies;
(c)  There is no coherent pricing policy for the sector as a whole;
this leads to an extemely variable performance in the individual
modes, e.g.:
(i)  of all the modes, only ports and pipelines
cover expenditures from revenues;
(ii)  motor fuel prices have been fixed for several years,
and Government is foregoing large revenues by
maintaining the price level below the current world
market level 1/; and
1/   The Sector Mission estimated that, by so doing, the revenue foregone
in 1974, for example, was about SI 1,100 million.



- 5 -
(i<8)  fixed tariffs on the railways, maintained in the face of
increasing operating costs, are aggravating the already
chronic railway deficit.
(d) Preparation of transportation projects at the planning stage and
at the level of pre-investment studies is slow, and quality of
the results is generally not good enough to meet the standards
necessary to attract external financing (a current example of
inadequate project preparation is the simultaneous preparation
of a Quito-Guayaquil expressway project and a study of the future
of the railway without coordination between the two efforts,
although they both relate to the same transport corridor 1/);
(e) The essential issues of intermodal planning for meeting the long-
term demand projections of transport are not being adequately
addressed. As a result, either directly or indirectly, important
issues remain unresolved, including: (i) integration of the
Oriente with the Sierra; (ii) establishment of priorities for
main trunk roads and for upgrading secondary and feeder roads;
(iii) formulation of development strategy for seaports in harmony
with other modes of transport, such as highways and railways;
(iv) definition of the appropriate future role of the railway
system; and (v) definition of the appropriate role of civil
aviation and, specifically, of the infrastructure and fleet re-
quirements.
2.11      The deficiencies are serious, and the absence of action to correct
them is potentially damaging to the economy. The Government should, as a
matter of urgency, set up and adequately staff some centralized unit which
would carry out sectoral planning and coordination in order to eliminate the
deficiencies through action in, but not limited to, the following areas:
(a) ensuring the collection, on a comparable basis, of statistics
relative to all transport modes and the analysis of such
statistics in a manner appropriate to the needs of the
sectoral and modal planners;
(b) critically reviewing the scope and desirable extent of revision
of existing modal regulations, including, particularly, road
transport regulations (para. 3.08);
(c) making uniform the budgeting procedures and financial reporting
standards for all modal agencies (para. 2.14);
(d) reviewing pricing in each mode of transport, establishing
a sectoral policy, and examining, in such a broad context,
the fuel price levels (para. 3.13); and
1/   The 1974 Bank Transport Sector Survey was instrumental in bringing
this need for an integrated (road and rail) approach to the Government's
attention.



- 6 -
(e) planning for the sector as a whole to determine and implement
adequately justified investment priorities, as well as to
create a sound basis for intermodal coordination.
2.12      A two-stage approach has been adopted to ensure that sectoral plan-
ning and coordination be Implemented effectively, for the following reasons:
(a) it offers a practicable institutional framework; (b) it is politically
more acceptable to the Government in view of the existing fragmentation within
the sector; and (c) it minimizes complications that may arise from deficient
executive capacity of existing institutions.  Therefore, an assurance was
obtained during negotiations for the proposed loan regarding the timetable
of the two stages which would, in fact, gradudally build up the sectoral plan-
ning and coordinating effort, first covering Land transport and thereafter
extended to all modes of transport. More specifically, the following two
major events were agreed during negotiations, including the terms of reference
for each:
(a) establishment, not later than one year after the date of the loan
agreement, of an appropriate and adequately staffed unit within
MOP by decree for planning and coordinating all land transport,
including administration and regulation of road transport; and
fb) establishment, not later than two years after the date of the
loan agreement, of an appropriate and adequately staffed unit
for planning and coordinating all modes of transport with
such organization and functions as shall be required for
the purpose.
Technical assistance to help the Government in setting up the above units and
in carrying out their terms of reference during the first three years after
loan agreement is included in the proposed project (para. 4.10).
2.13      Regarding the goal of permitting investment only in sound and proven
projects, the Government advised the Bank of the establishment, in 1975, of
the Sistema Nacional de Proyectos, an organization entrusted to JUNTAPLAN for,
inter alia, proposing investment programs and projects in transportation,
participating in interministerial working grouaps on project identification,
preparation, appraisal, promotion and ImpleenLtation, and for cooperating
with JUNTAPLAN and sectoral planning units on overall coordination of public
investment programs. Furthermore, ithe Government gave assurances to the Bank
during negotiations that the functions of the Sistema, with regard to land
transport, would be the responsibility of the agency to be established within
MOP as under (a) above.
E.   Investments and Finance
2.14      Government investment in transport infrastructure is made through
the various modal agencies, but, bec:ause of the lack of uniform procedures
in budgetary and financial statements and in the preparation of balance sheets
of the modal agencies and semiautonomous corporations, it is extremely diffi-
cult to establish an accurate picture of total investment in the sector. An



attempt has been made, however, to reconstruct total sectoral expenditures,
including investments, in Table 1. Technical assistance for transport plan-
ning and coordination (para. 4.10) would address the problem of uniform
budgetary procedures and financial statements.
2.15      Government investments have been stimulated in the past by the
rapidly increasing revenues from petroleum exports. The Fondo Nacional de
Desarrollo (PONADE) received a substantial portion of revenues from oil exports
for financing high priority development projects, whereas the Fondo Nacional de
Preinversiones (FONAPRE), set up in 1973, received foreign exchange from the
same source for financing preparation of such projects. However, the recent
slowing down of petroleum exports has reduced these funds considerably.
Expected increases in export earnings may not be sufficient to finance
FONADE's share of planned public sector investments without resorting to
foreign financing.
3. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
3.01      As may be expected in a country with terrain as varied as that in
Ecuador, highway development has been greatly influenced by geographical and
climatic conditions; these differ widely among the three major regions of the
country: the Costa, the Sierra and the Oriente. The highway network expanded
considerably during, and since, the 1960's, increasing by 50Z between 1963 and
1973 to reach a total of 22,500 km (Table 2). The increase in paved roads
during the last three years reflects the continued improvement of the main
road network.
3.02      In spite of continued expansion and improvement, the general condi-
tion of the main road network is not adequate to assure a satisfactory level
of service even for existing traffic volumes, The Ministry of Public Works
and Communications (MOP) is currently working on close to 2,200 km of roads,
including trunk road improvement and secondary and feeder road construction.
A highway project, being financed by IDB, is under way, which will add 333 km
to the paved network, principally in the Oriente and in the Guayas and El Oro
provinces. All seven roads included in this project are under construction,
and five are expected to be completed by 1976.
3.03      The Bank Group has participated in development of the highway network
through three projects (para. 1.01). The first, in 1954 (US$8.5 million,
Loan 94-EC), comprised construction and improvement of about 586 km of trunk
roads in the province of Guayas; the second, in 1957 (US$14.5 million, Loan
176-EC), comprised construction and improvement of a further 533 km of trunk
roads; and the third, in 1964, was a consortium project with finance from
the Bank (US$9 million, Loan 379-EC), the Association (US$8 million, Credit
51-EC), IDB and USAID. The project financed road construction, a five-year
maintenance program and consultant services for supervision of construction



and preparation of future projects. The complexity of a four-agency partici-
pation inevitably led to some initial delays, but progress eventually improved
and the project was generally satisfactory; it: was closed in December 1974 with
a small balance of the credit being cancelled.,
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.04      Most goods (approximately 80% of all freight) and passengers are
moved by road. A national transport survey inT 1964 and a highway master plan
prepared in 1973 (under the consortium project, para. 3.03) provided useful
information on road traffic, but otherwise inf'ormation is scant and unrelia-
ble. The highway master plan study revealed that traffic volumes exceeded
2,500 vehicles per day (Annual Average Daily Traffic - AADT) only on the
access roads to Quito and Guayaquil and that, otherwise, even on the major
roads, traffic rarely exceeded 500 AADT.
3.05      Vehicle registration, by categories, since 1951, is indicated in
Table 3. The fleet more than doubled in the period 1966-1973, reaching
close to 90,000 vehicles in the latter year. The importance of the two major
urban centers in the country, Quito and Guayaquil, is shown by the fact that
about 62% of the total vehicle fleet is registered in the provinces of which
they are the principal cities (Pichincha and Guayas). At the same time, the
Oriente region registered only about 1% of all vehicles in the country.
This unbalanced growth pattern in the highway subsector, however, is indica-
tive of most other sectors in the economy, and demgraphic data show the
same imbalance.
3.06      Overloading of commercial vehicles appears to continue, although
some efforts have been made by MOP to improve this situation. Weighbridges
were installed at four sites along major trunk roads of the network after
1964 under the consortium highway project, the last one becoming operational
in 1973. It is doubtful, however, whether adequately trained personnel are
available at the stations; also, collection of data and sampling techniques
are deficient. To protect the considerable investment in highways, the Bank
should again encourage action on the part of the Government to enforce legal
axle loadings. This would require appropriate staffing of the four weigh-
bridges and training of this staff in techniques such as vehicle sampling
and vehicle weighing. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that
the Government would take all the necessary action to keep the dimensions,
axle-loading and weight limits of the vehicles in operation within the limits
provided by law and to ensure permanent enforcement of the Ley de Caminos.
The technical assistance included irn this proposed project (para. 4.06)
would assist the Government in carrying out this law, and, specifically,
in training the required staff.
3.07      Import duties on vehicles and spare lparts have been high and, until
1974, revenues from such duties constituted a substantial part of road user
charges; in 1973, for example, they made up 38% of the total, while fuel taxes
contributed 52%. Under these conditions, only one-half of the revenues de-
pends upon the vehicle fleet's use of the network. The high import duties
tended to restrict new vehicle entries, and those levied on commercial



- 9 -
vehicles caused financial problems for truckers; the net result is a vehicle
fleet characterized by too wuch old and inefficient equipment.
3.08      Road transport is regulated and administered by a variety of Govern-
ment agencies, including MOP, the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, and
the Interior Ministry, the latter supervising the National Transportation
Council which, in turn, is responsible for road transport regulation. For
trucking, existing regulations are too detailed, so much so that, if rigidly
enforced, they would be an impediment to the development of a healthy industry.
However, since the Government has never acted with full force to implement
existing laws, trucking, in effect, is largely unregulated and there is strong
competition for traffic; this has resulted in the existence of many unregistered
truckers (independent owner/operators). In contrast to trucking, passenger
traffic is more effectively regulated; intercity passenger tariffs are con-
trolled, as are entry permits, routings, and frequency of service. The
technical assistance to be provided for setting up a sectoral planning agency
(para. 4.10) should also critically review, and make recommendations on, the
scope and desirable extent of revision of the existing vehicle regulations. A
useful input to this critical review would be the report of the 1974 Bank
mission (para. 1.02) which, inter alia, specifically dealt with the problems
of the trucking industry.
C. Highway Planning and Financing
3.09      Highway planning has not been, and still is not, a continuous pro-
cess in Ecuador. After eonsiderable expansion of infrastructure in the 1950's,
and later under the impetus of oil exploration that began in 1967, the pressure
mounted on MOP to define action In the highway subsector for supplementing
overall development strategies. Convinced of the inportance of a comprehen-
sive plan, MOP contracted a highvay master plan to consultants (TAMS/USA) in
1973; the foreign exchange costs of the work were financed under the con-
sortium highway project (para. 3.03). This master plan was completed by
mid-1974. It served as a basis, in its early stage, for selection of some
eight road projects for detailed feasibility study; one of the most viable
roads is included in the proposed project. The next viable project, a road
between °uerto Ila and Garrapata, may constitute the first stage of a future
integrated rural development project, a study of which is also included in the
proposed project (para. 4.11).
3.10      Planning and programning for highways is the responsibility of the
Department of Programming in the Directorate General of Public Works under
MOP, but the Department operates without experienced personnel. A review of
the work of this Department indicated the following major deficiencies:
(a) traffic data adequate for planning, prograiming, and design
are not collected periodically;
(b) efforts have not been made to prepare the staff for periodic
updating of the highway master plan (para. 3.09);



- 10 -
(c) coordination with other Government agencies concerned with
road transport (para, 3.08) is weak, and Information required
for planning is not made available to MOP; and
(d)  the Department does not have the capability to carry out, or
to contract and supervise, preinvestment studies; even with
foreign consultants, there have been delays in the studies
confirming the feasibility of compoinents of the proposed
project.
3.11      Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen highway planning and
programming. An ongoing reorganization within MOP (para. 3.14) envisages
establishment of a Directorate of Planning and Programming under the new
Sub-Secretariat of Public Works, which is scheduled to plan and program for
highways after January 1976. It would be desLrable for MOP to adopt the
following objectives with regard to highway planning:
(a) periodic collection of traffic data,, including origin and
destination surveys; and
(b)  building up a staff suitable for monitoring and for carrying
out preinvestment studies, highway planning and programming
in general.
In view of the above, the Rank, in addition to seeking assurances on sectoral
planning (para. 2.11), also obtained an assurance during negotiations that
the Government would, in fact, maintain an appropriate entity for highway
planning within the reorganized MOP. To help the Government to achieve the
above objectives, a program of technical assistance to strengthen highway
planning has been included in the proposed project (para. 4.06); terms of
reference for this assistance were agreed during negotiations on the basis
of an outline in Annex 1.
3.12      Highway expenditures are financed tlhrough MOP; Table 4 gives the
details for the period 1970-1973.  While expenditures for construction,
maintenance, and improvements increased roughly four-fold between 1970 and
1973, investments in highway studies increasedL by only a little more than
two-fold. This demonstrates the pressure placed on MOP to spend construction
funds, at a time when funds available for project preparation were not suffi-
cient to keep up with the desired pace of construction. This disparity
between funds for investment and funds for preparation reinforces the case
for insistence on planning (para. 3.11).
3.13      Highway investments are financed from a multitude of Government
funds, including the Fondo Vial (using earmarked road user charges), FONADE,
FONAPRE, and the general budget. Estimated contributions from road users are
shown in Table 4. Reliable figures for contributions are not available before
1972. The fuel pricing structure becomes important since motor fuel prices
are low in comparison with internat:Lonal prices, and this may bring about
(a) a misallocation of resources, d:Lstortion of inter-modal use, and distorted



- 11 -
investment decisions; and (b) a transport demand far greater than it otherwise
would be. A quick and easy solution to the problm of uneconomically low fuel
prices is not possible - any solution would need to be carefully considered
by the Government since it would radically touch the lives of practically all
the population; equally important is the fact that, at this time, there is no
soundly based information on which to make rational recommendations. The
technical assistance included in the proposed project (para. 4.10) should
examine the question of fuel prices within the broader context of sectoral
planning.
D.   Highway Administration
3.14      MOP administers highways in addition to communications, postal
services, and railways; highway matters, including maintenance, are dealt
with through the Directorate General of Public Works. The existing organi-
zation of MOP is not suitable for the efficient management of highways and
railways; the Government, in recognition of this fact, contracted a study
for the reorganization of MOP in early 1974, and, after the diagnostic and
design phase of the study, is now implementing a reorganization scheduled to
be completed in 1976. The revised structure should materially improve MOP's
capabilities in highway administration, including planning, progrAMming,
project implementation, and maintenance.
E.  Highway Engineering and Project Preparation
3.15      The standards for existing highways vary considerably in Ecuador,
according to regional conditions. A complete set of design standards was
proposed in 1964, but MOP has not adopted them slavishly and selects standards
according to local conditions and available funds, not only when prepared
within the Design Department of MOP, but also when contracted to consultants,
and MOP's role is limited to supervision. Upon MOP's request, consultants
(TAMS/USA) financed under the highway consortium project (para. 3.03),
developed highway manuals (specifications and standard conditions of contract).
The documents were approved by MOP in 1974.
3.16      Detailed engineering of highway projects, following preinvestment
evaluation, still requires improvement. Preparation of the proposed project
is an example; even with foreign coordinating consultants, there have been
unusual delays in engineering. The proposed project includes, therefore, a
program to improve MOP's capability in highway engineering (para. 4.06).
F.   Highway Construction
3.17      For the past 10 years, a large part of the highway construction
effort in Ecuador, including that financed externally, has been awarded to
local contractors; their performance, however, under the highway consortium
project, for example, reveals that their technical expertise should be improved.
At the time of the Bank transport sector mission (September 1974), the capacity
of the domestic road construction industry was estimated by identifying its
workload at that time in terms of construction contracts, which covered some



- 12 -
2,200 km of road and 2 km of bridges, the average construction period of the
contracts being about three years.
3.18      The 1974 transport sector mission identified a number of problems
facing the industry - generated in part from the industry itself and in part
from the Government's treatment of the industry. The mission specifically
noted:
(a) a deficiency in the firms' technical and managerial
expertise;
(b) MOP's fluctuating load on the industry, adversely affecting
the industry's investment decisions;
(c) MOP's tardiness in meeting contractors' interim payments; and
(d) the absence of a price variation formula in Government contracts.
A thorough review of the industry and of Government policy and practices
vis-a-vis the industry is needed, the more so since, with little interest by
foreign contractors, the local industry carries virtually all the construction
load. A program to diagnose and help correct the present shortcomings in the
industry is included in the proposed project (para. 4.07).
c.   Highway Maintenance
3.19      Highway maintenance is performed through four regional divisions
of the Maintenance Department under the Directorate General of Public Works.
This structure was created in 1970 upon completion of a maintenance program
which was financed under the highway consortium project in 1964 (para. 3.03).
The ongoing reorganization In MOP (para. 3.14) will not change this structure.
Periodic saintenance and emergency works are performed through the four mainte-
nance districts on force account, as well as by contract. Routine maintenance
of both paved and unpaved roads is carried out exclusively on force account.
These arrangements are satisfactory and are not expected to change.
3.20      The five-year mainteance prograu for 5,000 km of surfaced roads 1/
began in 1964 with an estimated cost of US$20 aillton equivalent, of which
US$5.5 million were financed by USAID (US$3.3 million) and IERD (US$2.2
million), and the remainlng balance in local cost by the Government, compris-
ing the annual maintenance budget of MOP. The foreign exchange component of
the program (US$5.5 million) financed construction of buildings, construction
and equipment of shops, procurement of maintenance equipment, and a very small
element (US$0.2 million) of technical assistance; the local funds mentioned
above financed the recurring maintenance operation. A review of the outcome
of the five-year maintenance program indicates that:
1/   Representing about one-third of the networ'k at the time.



- 13 -
(a) MOP's total maintenance budget was required to provide local
counterpart funds for the five-year maintenance program
covering only the 5,000 km of surfaced roads. This reduced
maintenance efforts over the entire highway network, and
was, in part, responsible for the fact that targeted average
maintenance costs (US$1,000 per km per year) were not achieved
at the end of the program in 1970; such eosts muounted only
to US$436 per km per year in 1972,
(b) The consultants' completion report in 1970 recommended
(i) further reorganization of the maintenance department;
(ii) reallocation of equipment; (iii) improvement of
planning, budgeting and controlling procedures for mainte-
nance; (iv) procurement of equipment in the amount of US$,8
million; and (v) increasing the maintenance budget.
3.21      Four years after the end of the five-year maintenance program, the
Bank sector mission (1974), and the appraisal mission for the proposed project
(early 1975) confirmed the following:
(a) The maintenance budget was raised substantially after
1971 to reach a satisfactory level in 1973, but it was
reduced by 10% in 1974; furthermore, during the first
six months of 1974, less than 35% of the total budgeted
was used up by MOP;
(b) The condition of several major paved trunk roads, as well
as Important secondary gravel roads, showed a lack of
adequate maintenance;
(c) While total maintenance personnel constituted about 60% of
the total MOP personnel, only 25Z of MOP engineers were
assigned to maintenance (of which one-fourth were retained
in Quito's headquarters); and
(d) Records for 1973 - the year of the highest maintenance
budget - showed that the incidence of patching of paved
roads was at about one-third of the level normally required.
Records for the same year for gravel roads showed that
replenishment was done, on the average, once in 15 years,
instead of once after each rainy season.
3.22      In view of the above, the following major deficiencies are identified:
(a)  Inefficient use of the budget (e.g., the 1973 budget was at an
acceptable level, but road conditions did not adequately reflect
this in 1974);



- 14 -
(b)  Lack of adequate knowledge of maintenance work on the part of
MOP technical personnel (from planning, programming and
budgeting through execution); and
(c) Shortage of technical personnel, especially at the engineer
level, and a lack of programs to increase staff and/or to
train them.
Considering the above, a maintenance program has been included in the proposed
project with the purpose of helping the Government to eliminate these defi-
ciencies and to identify other probLems and causes responsible for the lack
of adequate overall road maintenance in the country (paras. 4.04 and 4.05).
H.   Feeder Roads
3.23      Planning of feeder roads requires special treatment, particularly
in a country such as Ecuador where agriculture plays an important role, since
it must be integrated with agricultural output and potential, and with comple-
mentary aspects such as extension services, agricultural credit, and the mar-
keting process.  The relevance of feeder roads to agricultural development was
emphasized in the findings of a recent Bank rural development mission.
3.24      Although construction and improvement of feeder roads have been
receiving increasing attention in recent years both from the Government and
from external funding agencies, adequate coordination among the various agencies
involved has not always been achieved.  Partly for the demonstration effect,
and partly to ensure meaningful rural development in an area in which the
Government is now preparing plans for a new trunk road, the proposed project
includes an integrated rural development study (para. 4.11).
4. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The proposed project would consist of:
(a)  improvement, including supervision, of the existing
road between Babahoyo and Balzapamba (49 km);
(b) a review of the Maintenance DepartmenLt of MOP and
a maintenance program in one of the four main-
tenance districts of MOP, including the utilization
of equipment required;
(e) a program to improve the engineering capability of
the Highway Department of MIOP;
(d) a program to improve MOP's capability for highway
planning and pre-investment: studies;



- 15 -
(e)  technical assistance for establiaeent of a transport
sector planning and coordinating agency;
(f)  a program to improve the capabilities of the local
road construction industry;
(g)  an integrated rural development study in the area of
influence of the Puerto Ila-Garrapata road; and
(h)  technical assistance for overall project coordination.
B. Improvement of the Babahoyo-Balzapamba Road
4.02      The Babahoyo-Balzapamba section is part of a road connecting
Babahoyc, in the Guayas basin, with Ambato, in the central valley, located
south of Quito on the Pan-American highway (Map IBRD ll882Rl). The existing
road section of 49 km is gravel surfaced, with platform widths varying
between five and ten meters. Close to 26 km were flooded at seven locations
during the last rainy season; another section, between Montalvo and Balzapamba,
was damaged recently when the Rio Cristal changed course and isolated the
town of Montalvo. Traffic on the road, in 1974, varied between 200 and 830
vehicles per day. The proposed works, raising the grade line to eliminate
flooding, realignment where necessary, and a pavement - in part asphaltic
concrete and in part asphaltic surface treatment (depending on the traffic) --
would ensure a flood-free, all-weather road. Design standards are given in
Table 5. The average cost of the improvement work is US$185,000 per km.
4.03      Feasibility of the proposed improvements was demonstrated in a
study financed under the consortium highway project and carried out by
consultants (TAMS/USA) during 1974/75. Detailed engineering was under-
taken by local consultants (ASTEC/Ecuador) with coordination and super-
vision by TAMS. Final design work has been completed together with bid
documents and final cost estimates.
C. Maintenance Program
4.04      The condition of the growing highway network in the country shows
a lack of adequate maintenance, in spite of increasing budgetary allocations
for maintenance over the last few years. A review, during appraisal of the
proposed project, of the operation of the Maintenance Departmet under MOP
also identified other specific deficiencies (paras. 3.20-3.22). Therefore,
to help the Government embark on a program to better preserve lnveestts in
the highway network, a maintenance program is included in the proposed
project. It is recognized that this program would, to some eztent, repeat
the saintenance program financed under the consortium highway project in 1964,
which indicates that recurring deficiencies are largely responsible for poor
performance in this area (e.g., trained MOP personnel retire or leave the
Ministry, equipment depreciates and funds for renewal are not available on time,



- 16 -
etc.). During neg tiations, an agreement was reached with the Govermnat
that this program weeld be coadcted within the Maintenance Department of
MOP, concentrating on the first of four maintenance districts (overing the
Provinces of Carchi, Iababura, Pichincha and Esmeraldas), and it would
comprise:
(a)  a review and recoendations on:
(i)  planning, budgeting, and controlling maintenance
works;
(ii) the technicAl aspects of equipment operation, and
routine nd periodic maintenance operations;
(iii)  maintenance personnel, including an evaluation of
tranin moeds;
(iv) maintenance equipment, including a condition survey and
required purchases in order to ensure that adequate
equipment is available in the district selected;
(b) on the basis of (a) above, the formulation of a two-year main-
tenance program for the First Maintenance District; and
Cc) iuplementation of the two-year program formulated under (b)
above through utilization of the equipment required, including
a critical review of the work methods and adainistrative
procedures, tbus permitting the Government to formulate
tested procedures in order to extend them to all four
maintenance districts in the future.
A more detailed description of this lprogram appears in Annex 2. Financing
of consultants for technical assistance to the Maintenance Department of
MOP would be provided In the proposed loan.
4.05      During negotiations, in addition to the selection of the maintenance
district, an agreement was reached with the Governoent on the timetable for
steps (a) through (c) above, and the timing and terms of reference for the
consulting services required. Furthermore, an assurance was obtained from
the Government that the ank would be consulted on the specific programs to
be undertaken to satisfy training needs and on formulating the two-year
maintenance program usder (b) above; with respect to this latter, an
assurance was also obtained that the Government would provide sufficient
operational equipment in the first district for execution of the program
under (b) above.



- 17 -
D.   Programs to Improve MOP's Planning and Engineering Capabilities and to
Improve the Capability of the Local Civil Works Construction Industry
4.06      Institutional deficiencies of MOP, specifically in the areas of
planning and design of highways (paras. 3.10 and 3.16, respectively) and
of control of vehicle weights (para. 3.06), have been noted. As part of
a broad-based effort to improve MOP capabilities in the highway subsector,
the project includes programs to remedy deficiencies, both in planning
(Annex 1) and in design (Annex 3). The proposed project would provide tech-
nical assistance to help define and implement the programs and to help mount
an effective program for enforcing legal limits on axle loadings.
4.07      Factors militating against an efficient local civil works con-
struction industry have been noted in paragraph 3.18. The project includes
a program directed toward making the industry more efficient and would con-
front the problem from two standpoints: (a) the structure and methods of the
industry itself; and (b) the handling of the industry by Government agencies.
As regards the industry, the program would operate through MOP and its
registered contractors and would comprise, essentially, diagnosis and assist-
ance in the areas of: (a) bidding, contracting, cost control, financial
planning, and management (including support services such as workshops); and
(b) site operations, programming of mobilization, maintenance, purchases and
storage, and equipment managemeht. As regards the Government, assistance
would be provided to MOP in the areas of prequalification and bidding proce-
dures and their evaluation, supervision, contract management, and arbitration.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that no domestic road contractor
would be permitted, as of one year after the date of the loan agreement, to
take part in any bidding invited by MOP for paved road construction contracts
unless such contractor would have received the above technical assistance.
4.08      For these programs, terms of reference for the technical assistance,
and the institutional and operational framework within which it would operate,
were agreed during negotiations on the basis of detailed proposals outlined
in Annexes 1, 3 and 4.
4.09      In order to monitor the results of technical assistance for the
domestic contractors, a number of factors specific to the assistance proposed,
as well as others related to the industry in general, have been selected, as
shown in Annex 5. The consultants providing technical assistance to domestic
contractors would evaluate these indicators for the past years, and, upon
completion of the project, the Bank, through its supervisory efforts, would
periodically collect such information.
E.   Technical Assistance in Establishing a Transport Planning
and Coordinating Agency
4.10      The deficiencies in planning at the sectoral level, and the assis-
tance the Government should seek in connection with setting up, in two stages,



- 18 -
an appropriate sectoral planning mechanism are detailed in paragraphs 2.12
and 2.13. To help in setting up the two required units, and to advise the
Government in the initial phases of planning, technical assistance is
envisaged under the proposed project. The assistance would take the form
of modal experts for the dominant transport modes and of sectoral planners
to help address specific problems in land transport and those of the entire
sector as defined in their terms of reference; the terms of reference for
assistance in land transport, and sectoral planning and coordination are
essentially the same as shown in Annex 6. I'hese terms of reference were
agreed during negotiations.
F.   Integrated Rural Development Study
4.11      The shortcomings in plannning of rural development projects,
specifically in the context of feeder road development, have been noted
in paragraphs 3.23 and 3.24. An opportunity now exists for the Bank to
bring to bear its expertise in integrated rural development planning. The
Government is currently completing the design for a new trunk road (86 km)
in the Quevedo area connecting Puerto Ila and Garrapata. The area of
influence of the proposed new highway comprises approximately 150 000 ha
in the Quevedo area in the northwest of Ecuador (Map IBRD 11882RK5. The
project therefore includes a study which would properly define the project
area, evaluate its potential, define needed complementary investments and
prepare a plan, including timetable and budget. Technical assistance for
this study is provided under the proposed project (Annex 7). The scope and
timing of the study and the terms of reference for the technical assistance
were agreed during negotiations; agreement was also reached with the Govern-
ment that this part of the projectl would be carried out by the Ministry of
Agriculture (MAG), MOP, JUNTAPLAN, and FONAPRE through an ad-hoc committee
comprising representatives of each. Furthermore, the specific responsibilities
of each of the above Government agencies, including the provision of funds,
was agreed during negotiations.
G.   Technical Assistance for ProJect Coordination
4.12      The project comprises a wide variety of components, and, although
well suited to the needs of the country, may provide a strain on the admin-
istrative capability of MOP for its execution, the more so since the compo-
nents impinge on many fields of activities in sectors other than transport.
An element of technical assistance has therefore been provided under the
proposed loan to help MOP coordinate and administer the project. The ex-
tent of the technical assistance and detailed terms of reference therefor
were agreed during negotiations using, as a basis, the outline in Annex 8.
H.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements
h.13      The proposed project is estimated to cost about US$21 million equiv-
alent, based on early 1976 construction costs, including contingency allowances,
as shown in the table on page 19. Expected price increases were calculated
with rates of inflation ranging between 13% and 12% for civil works, and 12%
and 9% for consulting services during the period of 1976 through 1979.



- 19 -
% of
S/  Millions              US$ Millions          Base
Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign   Total  Cost   FEC
A. Civil Works
(i)  Babahoya-Balza-
pamba road
improvement        137.5     92.5    230.0   5.5        3.7      9.2    57      40
B. Supervision of
Civil Works           5.0     15.0      20.0   0.2       0.6      0.8      5     70
C. Programs and Technical
Assistance
(i) Maintenance
program           12.5     32.5      45.0   0.5       1.3      1.8
(ii) Highway engineering
program           10.0     25.0      35.0   0.4       1.0      1.4
(iii)  Highway planning
program            5.0      7.5      12.5   0.2       0.3      0.5
(iv) Transport planning
& coordination   10.0      20.0      30.0   0.4       0.8      1.2
(v) Local road
construction
industry           -        2.5       2.5    -        0.1      0.1
(vi)  Rural development
study             5.0      10.0     15.0   0.2        0.4      0.6
(vii)  Project coordina-
tion              5.0       7.5      12.5   0.2       0.3      0.5
Sub-Total   47.5    105.0    152.5   1.9        4.2       6.1    38      70
Total Base Cost  190.0    212.5    402.5   7.6         8.5     16.1   100
D. Contingencies
Physical (10% of A)   15.0      10.0      25.o   o.6       0.4      1.0
Price Increase 1       57.5     40.0      97.5   2.3       1.6.     3.9
Sub-Total   72.5      50.0    122.5   2.9       2.0       4.9
Total Project Cost  262.5    262.5    525.0  10.5        10.5     21.0            50
1/ Price Escalation rates as follows:
(a) Foreign Exchange Element
Civil Works:              1976      13%
1977-79   12%
Consulting Services:      1976      12%
1977-79    9%
(b) Local Cost 1lement           1976, 20X varying to 1979, 12%



- 20 -
4.14     The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange component 1/
of the project, amounting to US$10.5 million. This foreign exchange compo-
nent represents about 50% of total project costs and assumes that the improve-
ment of the Babahoyo-Balzapamba road would be executed by local contractors
and the various elements of technical assistance would be provided by foreign
consultants. The cost of consultant services was estimated on the basis of
an average of US$5,500 per man-month for foreign experts.  Alternative sources
of finance for the technical assistance element were investigated during
appraisal: (a) UNDP was approached, but was not prepared to consider the
request due to current commitments; (b) after a request for financing the
foreign exchange cost of the rural development: study, FONAPRE agreed, and it
was reconfirmed during negotiations, to finance US$300,000 equivalent - up
to US$100,000 in foreign exchange and the remainder in local currency - as may
be required for execution of this study (para. 4.11). Local costs for the
project would be financed by the Government, and an assurance to this effect
was obtained from the Government during negotiations. Retroactive financing
of expenditures in foreign currency for project preparation after December 1,
1975, in an amount not to exceed US$100,000 equivalent, is recommended.
4.15      Disbursements of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) for civil works, on the basis of 40% of payments to
contractors;
(b)   for construction supervision:  (i) 50% of total expenditures
for the required consulting services if contracted with local
consultants, representing the estimated foreign exchange
element; or (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures if contracted
with foreign consultants; and
(c) for technical assistance, 100Z of the foreign exchange cost
of consulting services, except in the case of the rural
development study, for which the percentage of foreign
exchange costs to be financed would be 75%.
Any funds remaining in the loan account on completion of the project would,
with the Bank's approval, be used for high-priority highway project prepara-
tion or other elements of technical assistance, which were reviewed during
appraisal.
I.   Execution and Procurement
4.16      Project execution would be the responsibility of MOP, except that
other Government agencies would be involved in connection with technical
assistance for the rural development: study. Such agencies, and the scope of
their involvement, were agreed during negotiations (para. 4.11). An imple-
mentation schedule for the entire project, including the agencies involved,
1/ Except for an amount close to IrS$100,000 representing a part of the
foreign exchange required for the rural development study (para. 4.11)
and to be financed by FONAPRE (para. 4.14).



- 21 -
is shown in Annex 9. In order to assist in following the progress of the
project during supervision, and to evaluate its success after completion,
indicators by which the project may be monitored are shown in Annex 10.
4.17      Civil works for road construction and improvement would be carried
out on the basis of unit price contracts awarded after internatisnal compe-
titive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The works would be
divided into contractual lots for bidding purposes, and firms, prequalified
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, would be allowed to bid for any lot or
combination of lots. Agreement was reached with the Government during nego-
tiations on terms and conditions for civil works procurement including, spe-
cifically, the type of price variation formulas to be used in civil works
contracts.
4.18      The implementation period would be about three years.  The Babahoyo-
Balzapanba road should be completed by the end of 1978 and the different
elements of technical assistance should be terminated in 1979. On this as-
sumption, the schedule of disbursements of the loan is included in Table 6.
Delays are not expected in acquisition of land that mWy be required for the
civil works; nevertheless, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government would take all necessary action to acquire, as and when needed,
the necessary land and rights to carry out the civil works.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      This economic evaluation concentrates on the construction of the
Babahoyo-Balzapamba road (which, including supervision, would represent abot,-
62% of estimated project base cost, with an economic return on the invest-
ment of about 14%); quantifiable benefits are discussed in detail, and ar
indication is provided of non-quantifiable benefits which would result from
the investment. A qualitative assessment only is made of the proposed
investments in the other components of the project.
B.   Improvement of the Babahoyo-Balzapamba Road
(i) General
5.02      The 49-km Babahoyo-Balzapamba road is part of the trunk road sys-
tem of Ecuador and, specifically, for traffic between Quito and Guayaquil,
is part of an alternate route which leaves the main road (the Pan-American
Highway) at Ambato, some 100 km south of Quito, and then proceeds in a
generally southwest direction through Guaranda, Balzapamba and Babahoyo
to join the main road again between Milagro and Duran, close to Guayaquil.
The route through Babahoyo is the more direct communication between Ambato
and Guayaquil, but, currently, its condition is very variable -- from good
and paved in some sections south of Babahoyo, to mostly very poor, between
Babahoyo and the Pan-American Highway at Ambato. Because of this variation
in condition, traffic between Quito and Guayaquil currently stays on the
longer, more southerly route through Bucay.



- 22 -
5.03      The condition of the Babahoyo-Ambato road is gradually being
improved, and the Babahoyo-Balzapamba. section is included in the project.
However, the improvement of the road beyond Balzapamba, where it climbs the
Andes to Ambato, is at present uncertain, and rot economically feasible.
It is therefore unlikely that there would be a major diversion of traffic
from other existing roads (connecting the Sierra with the Costa) to the project
road; no diverted traffic has therefore been irLcluded in the economic evalua-
tion. Improvement of the Babahoyo-Balzapamba section could be expected to:
(a)  reduce vehicle operating costs and bnerease driver and
passenger time savings;
(b) reduce road maintenance costs; and
(c)  provide all-weather road service to an important
agricultural area (para. 5.04), thus facilitating
its full development and avoiding sporadic inter-
ruptions in the transport of produce.
Quantifiable benefits (a) and (b) are discussed in detail, and an indication
is provided of the benefits which should result under (c).
(ii) The Area of Influence
5.04      The Babahoyo-Balzapamba road gives access to some of the most
fertile agricultural lands in the Guayas river basin.  The area of influ-
ence of the road extends from the Babahoyo river (a tributary of the Guayas)
toward the piedmont of the Andes. It covers Babahoyo county (population
85,000) in Los Rios province and San Miguel county (population 65,000) in
Bolivar province. Although primitive, access to the area of influence, in
addition to the Babahoyo-Balzapamba highway, is more or less developed.  It
is provided by a number of feeder roads, such as those to Hacienda Clementina,
to San Joaquin, to San Jose del Tambo and the Montalvo-San Juan highway, and
by a number of unchartered tertiary roads to the farms.
5.05      Agriculture in the area of influence of the project is developing
in spite of the limitations imposed by a primitive road network resulting in
poor and costly transporbation. This is because climatic conditions, with
a mean temperature of 25 centigrade and 1.8 m of rain a year, 1/ associated
with excellent soils, make this area well fitted for a variety of tropical
crops. The region is noted for its banana, cacao, coffee and rice production.
On the higher areas around Balzapamba, citrus fruits, particularly oranges,
are produced. Forestry, too, is an important activity. 2/ Livestock, on
the other hand, although widespread, is not among the main products in the
area because yields are low and quality is poor. As a result, agriculture
1/   With a distinctive rainy season between January and June and a six-
seven year cycle of extraordinary rains during that season (as in
1975).
2/   It is estimated that over 40% of the land is occupied by dense
forest.



- 23 -
and forestry are expected to be the main beneficiaries of the proposed
works. The major crops are sold in the Guayaquil and the Costa markets,
and surpluses are exported, all being transported over the existing road
to Babahoyo and from there to their final destination.
5.06      An important project, located in the area of direct influence of
the proposed work, is being implemented by the River Guayas Basin Develop-
ment Commission (CEDEGE), an autonomous Government agency created in 1965.
This project, based on an irrigation-drainage program, covers 12,000 ha of
land between Babahoyo and Montalvo, presently largely underutilized (only
50% under cultivation). Of this area, about 7,500 ha would be used mainly
for rice, taking advantage of favorable soil characteristics and the project's
irrigation schemes. In addition to rice, CEDEGE plans to use about 2,500 ha
for annual crops such as soybean, maize, sesame and beans. The CEDEGE project
includes extension services and technical assistance, as well as the necessary
infrastructure, including a processing plant for drying, storing and milling
rice. Although the CEDEGE project is being carried out independently of the
proposed highway project, undoubtedly improvement of the existing road would
bring large benefits to it, deriving mainly from reduced transport costs and
from the existence of an all-weather road during the period of rice harvest.
(iii) Traffic
5.07      Existing traffic volumes on the road between Babahoyo and Balza-
pamba were established through traffic counts and origin and destination (O&D)
surveys conducted in 1974 by the consultants TAMS-ASTEC. Traffic varied from
830 vehicles per day (49% heavy) in the Babahoyo bypass, to 390 vehicles per
day (62% heavy) in the Babahoyo-Palmar section, 330 vehicles per day (62%
heavy) in the Palmar-Montalvo section, and 200 vehicles per day in the
Montalvo-Balzapamba section. In the absence of adequate historical data, more
reliable indicators of traffic growth trends have been used in this evaluation,
such as motor fuel consumption, vehicle registration, population and income in
the Los Rios, Bolivar and Tungurahua provinces, which, according to O&D
surveys, account for most of the traffic on this road.
5.08      Estimates of total traffic, made on the assumption that the project
would be fully opened in 1979, indicate traffic levels in 1980 from 1,320
vehicles per day (AADT) in the Babahoyo bypass to 690 AADT and 600 AADT in
the Babahoyo-Palmar and Palmar-Montalvo sections, respectively, and 360
between Montalvo and Balzapamba. By reducing the vehicle operating costs
substantially, the improved road would generate traffic at an estimated 15%
of the total traffic (assuming a low elasticity of about 0.4 between generated
traffic and reduction of vehicle operating costs). The ensuing 20-year traffic
forecast implied an overall traffic growth rate of 8.0% per year until 1986
and of 6.0% thereafter (Table 7). Long distance traffic attracted from other
routes connecting the Sierra with Guayaquil has not been included in the
projections because of the substantial and still uncertain improvements
required between Balzapamba and Ambato to divert it (paras. 5.02, 5.03).
However, the consultants estimated, based on O&D surveys, that, in 1974,



- 24 -
about 150 vehicles per day (48% heavy) were likely to be diverted if the
Balzapamba-Ambato section were imptroved. To the extent that this possible
future traffic is not included in the 20-year projections, project benefits
have been conservatively estimated.
(iv) Economic Benefits
5.09      Quantifiable benefits from the proposed highway construction
included the direct benefits derived by highway users - reduced vehicle
operating costs and driver and passenger timie savings. Other benefits
which have not been included are a reduction in traffic accidents, reduced
breakage and spoilage of cargo and elimination in the sporadic interruptions
to traffic that occur during the rainy season. To the extent that the road
improvement will produce such benefits, net benefits have been understated.
In addition to road user savings, changes which are expected to occur in the
cost of road maintenance as a result of the proposed improvements were
included in the evaluation.
5.10      As a basis for computing road user benefits, estimates of vehicle
operating costs were developed. These costs were prepared by the consult-
ants, based on de Weille, 1/ modified according to their experience in Ecuador
and using Ecuadorean prices as input; the estimates were adjusted by the
appraisal mission. A summary of the vehicle operating costs used for the
project is shown in Table 8.
5.11      The benefits resulting from savings in vehicle operating costs
are expected to help both the producers and consumers of the goods
transported and, also, the econom:Lcally active population in the area of
influence. Truckers and bus owners would, in the first instance, benefit
from the reduced wear and tear andl fuel consumption of their vehicles as
well as reduced turnaround times. However, based on the existence of a
highly flexible, unregulated and competitive transport industry, as reported
by the recent sector review mission, it is expected that these benefits
would ultimately be transferred in large measure to the final users of the
services. Additionally, the availability of every-day services, not subject
to unexpected interruptions caused by rain and floods, would particularly
benefit the agricultural sector and projects such as that of CEDEGE (para.
5.06), which are largely dependent: on the availability of reliable transport
to reach markets with their perislhable produce.
(v) Economic Evaluation
5.12      The proposed road is weLl justified, with an economic return (ER),
based on the best estimates, of 14%. Sensitivity analyses have been carried
out on the main parameters affecting the economic evaluation (cost and benefits),
showing that the ER would, even under adverse assumptions, still be acceptable
(Table 9).
1/   Quantification of Road User Savings, World Bank Occasional Paper
No. 2, 1968.



- 25 -
B.   Other Project Elements
5.13      Benefits were not quantified for the programs to improve highway
maintenance, the engineering capabilities of MOP, the highway planning capability
of MOP and the capabilities of the local civil works industry; neither were
they quantified for the integrated rural development study and assistance for
establishing a transport planning and coordinating agency. These elements
are considered justified in view of the anticipated large investments which
will occur in the sector and the need to increase the efficiency in highway
maintenance practices, design, planning and construction, as well as to pro-
vide expertise which, in future years, may advise planning officials in other
sectors of the economy regarding sound principles of project evaluation and
implementation.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following:
(a)  terms of reference for technical assistance for the
highway planning entity within MOP (para. 3.11);
(b)  selection of the First District of MOP for the maintenance
program, a timetable and the timing, and terms of reference
for technical assistance for the maintenance program
(paras. 4.04 and 4.05);
xc)  scope and timing of the programs relating to the improvement
of the capability of MOP and of the local road construction
industry, and the extent, timing and terms of reference
for the technical assistance to be provided and for the
framework in which it will operate (paras. 4.06-4.08);
(d)  terms of reference for technical assistance for the two
stages of transport planning (para. 4.10);
(e)  execution and timing of the integrated rural development
study and the terms of reference for technical assistance
therefor, as well as the specific responsibilities of the
Government agencies involved, including the provision of
funds (para. 4.11);
(f)  scope and terms of reference for technical assistance to
aid MOP in project coordination (para 4.12); and
(g)  terms and conditions for civil works procurement, itcluding
the type of price variation formulas to be used in civil
works contracts (para. 4.17).



- 26 -
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following:
(a) setting up of an appropriate and adequately staffed agency
within MOP for land transport planning and coordinating
within one year after loan agreement, and establishing an
appropriate unit for transport sector planning and coordinating
with such organization within the Government and functions as
shall be required for the purpose within two years after
loan agreement (para. 2.12);
(b) functions of the Sistema Nacional de Proyectos, with regard
to land transport, to be the responsibility of the agency
to be established within MOP under (a) above (para. 2.13);
(c)  keeping the dimensions, axle-loading and weight limits of
of vehicles within limits established by the law (Ley de
Caminos) (para. 3.06);
(d) maintaining a unit for highway planning in the reorganized MOP
(para. 3.11);
(e) Bank to be consulted prior to formulating the two-year
maintenance program and equipment to be made available
therefor (para. 4.05);
(f) no domestic contractor to be permltted to bid on paved road
construction projects called by MOP, unless such contractor
would have received technical assistance to be provided to
domestic contractors under the project (para. 4.07);
(g) provision of funds for local costs (para. 4.14); and
(h)  timely acquisition of land and rights for the civil works
(para. 4.18).
6.03      The project would provide a suitable basis for a loan of US$10.5
million equivalent for a period of 25 years, irncluding a five-year grace
period.
March 15, 1976



TABLE 1
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimates of Transport Sector Expenditures Li
(millions of current Sucres)
1970           1971            1972           1973
Highways                336.9           823.6           874.3         1,293.1
Railways                 87.6            79.9            85.3    n. available
Ports3              n. available        162.9            165.6          183.6
Airports DAC2A      n. available         90.0      n. available         115.o
Pipeline4                35o.o        1,600.0         1,300,0             6.o
TOTAL
1.  Unless otherwise specified, including operational expenditures, investments-,.
and debt servicing.
2*/ Excluding road transport industry
_/  Excluding Esmeraldas, San Lorenzo, Salinas, Bahia de Caraquez, and Balao
ports, and investments, but including debt serv.icing.
S/ Excluding airlines, taking into account only airport authorities and DAC
9/ Including only investments in two major pipelines, excluding operational
expenditures.
Source: Mission estimates
September 1974



TABLE 2
KGADOR
RTfH HIGHWAY PROJECT
iiH : Network
(Kilometers)
Year          Paved        Gravel         Earth        Total
1963                 8,413                7,211  /     15,624
1970           2,850        8,150       11,300         22,300
1973           3,1419       7,107       12,012         22,538
1/ Seasonal earth roads.
Source: National Transport Plan, 1964;
Ministur  of PuLblic Works, 1974; and
Mission Estimates
September 1974



ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet by Categories
Passenger      Jeeps and      Mediuim     Heavy /6
Year          Cars          Pickups       Trucks       Trucks       Others         Total
1951 /1         _____-7,261 /1 ----           310       4,479          -          12,050
1962 /1         -----22,566 /1              1,259        7,656         -          31,481
1965 /2         -----27,147 /1 ----         1,515        9,210         -          37,896
1966 /3         -              -              -          -             -          41,421
1967           14,151         20,016        3,002      10,061           49        47,279
1968           14,719         22,191        3,o51      10,631           60        50,652
1969           16,403         25,448        3,330       10,572          75        55,828
1970           17,876         30,520        1,810      12,399          176        62,772
1971           20,186         37,991        3,479      12,717           94        74,467
1972           22,254         38,543        3,544      12,157        8,032 /4     84,530
1973 /5          -                            -          -             -          89,248 /5
1/  Breakdown between passenger cars and other light vehicles not available
2/ Categories shown were calculated from total assuming same breakdown as in 1962
3/ Breakdown not available
Includes motorcycles and bicycles in Guayas Province
:/ Preliminary figure, breakdown not available
6/ This category includes buses
Source: Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Direccion General de Transito, Interior Ministry
September 1974



TABLE L;
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHAY 1POJECT.
Highway Expenditures and Road User:s' Contribution
(Million of Current Sucres)
A.  Highwa      enditures             1970       1971      1972   ' 973
Operating Budget             24.0      23.0       38.1       8.8
Consultants                  11.9       5.1       15.6      24 4
Highway Studies              10.6       3.5        6.3      16,2
Highway Construction        236.2     703.1      675.0     859.8
Highway Maintenance
and Improvements           84.2      82.6      121.0     320.0
Highway Administration
and Supervision             -         6.3       18.3      23.9
366.9     823.6      874.3   1,293,1
B. Motor Vehicle Contributions
Vehicle Registra4- ion
and licenses                                    15.0      16,0
Tolls                                             42.0      46.o
Import duties on Vehicles                        360.0     300.0
Import duties on Parts                            23.0      25.0
Gasoline Taxes                                   292.0     325.C
Diesel Taxes                                     101.0     121.0
Tire Taxes                                        14.0      15.0
847.0     848.0
Source   Expenditures:  Budgeting and Accounting Department, MOP
Contributions: Mission Estimates
November 1974



TABLE 5
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards
Babahoyo-Balzapamba
Flat 1/   Flat 2/   Mountainous 2/
Horizontal
Minimum Radius (m)                440       350           115
Width - Travelled way (m)           7.3       6.7           6.7
- Shoulder (m)                3.0       1.5          1.4
Vertical
Maximum Grade (%)                   3.5       4.0           9.0 3/
Minimum Radius - crest (m)         85        60            13
- sag (m)          45         38           15
Sight Distance (m)                190       160            75
Design Speed (km/hr)                   110       100            60
1/ Class II section (38 km).
2/  Class III section (11 km).
3/ Limited to a 200 m section.
Source: Ministry of Public Works (MOP)
March 1976



TABLE 6
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedu:Le
IBRD Fiscal Year                                     OwCulative Disbursement at
and Quarter Endins                                         End of Quarter
(US$ Thousands)
September 30, 1976                                          350
December 31, 1976                                         1,600
March 31, 1977                                            2,800
June 30, 1977                                             3,800
1977/1978
September 30, 1977                                        4,800
December 31, 1977                                         5,700
March 31, 1978                                            6,700
June 30, 1978                                             7,800
1978/1979
September 30, 1978                                        8,600
December 31, 1978                                         9,600
March 31, 1979                                           10,000
June 30, 1979                                            10,500
Assumptions:
Loan Effectiveness                      June 1976
Bids for Civil Works Evaluated           June 1976
Contractors Mobilization                September 1976
All Technical Assistance Contracted    January 1977
Construction Completed                  March 1979
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1976



ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGiWAY PROJECT
Babahoyo-Balzapamba Highway
Traffic Flows CAADT)
Estimated 1980
Length    Actual-                                           Average Annual Growth
Section            Traffic      (km)      1974      Total  Ve&dIcles3i"  Trucks    1974-78    1976b86    1987 -98
Babahoyo By-pass       Normal           4                 1,320      780      210    -330                   7.0         6.0
Generated                           -          -       -                 8jo
Total                  830      1,320      78OT    TT        m
Babahoyo-Palmar        Normal          10                   590      270      130     190                   6.5         6.o
Generated                           100       45       20      35        70
Total                  390        690        1       50    -22
Palnar-Montalvo       Normal          24                   510      230      115     i65                   6.5         6.0
Generated                            90                20      30        7.0
Total                 330         6010 57              
Montalvo-Baluapamba    Normal           11                   310      180       50      80                   6.5         6.0
Generated                            50        30       5      15        7.0
Total                  200        360      210 TV            9
1/ Including pick-up trucks.
Source: TADI/A'TEC Feasibility Study, adjusted by the Appraisal Mission
February 1975
1s!



TABLE 8
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs /1
(Sucres/km)
Babahoyo-Balzapamba Road
Type of Vehicle         PropoSed Road      Existing Road      Savings
Light Vehicle                1.].0              1.65            0.55
Bus                          3.1.5              5.20            2.05
Truck                        4.35               7.15            2,80
/1 Economic Costs, including driverst salaries for
buses and trucks, assuming free-running conditions.
Costs as of October, 1975.
Source:  TAMS cost schedules, adjusted by the
appraisal mission0
February 1976



ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation Results
Financial 1/       Economic 2/      Economic Evaluation Ba qd
ghw2LL                 Length       Cost                Cost              on Best Estimates -    Sensitivity Analysis  t)
(km)     (S/Million)         (S/Milion)        ER 4/          FR i/       Cost + 15,  Benefit -25%
Babahoyo-Balzapamba           49         259.4               194.5            14             9.4            12             10
1/  Based on October, 1975 cost estimates, including 10% physical contingencies and project supervision and right-of-way --
a time frame chosen Jo conform to the assumptions that were used in benefit calculations.
2/ Financial cost net of taxes.
3' Basis for best estimates: (i) annual traffic and growth rates per Table 7; (ii) cost and benefits in 1975 prices;
(iii) project fully open to service in 1979; (iv) economic life of project, 20 years; (v) benefits include savings
in vehicle operating costs, including professional driver's salaries and road maintenance costs and passenger time
savings. Note: Passenger time benefits due to reductions in travel time accounted for about 201 of total quanti-
fiable benefits. The ER without time benefits is 11%. Time benefits were computed on basis of the ,verage wage of
labor when travelling for business purposes.  Based on the consultants' origin and destinatior. surv,jrs, about 40%
of all passengers on buses, and nearly 70% of all passengers on light vehicles (including pick-up trucks) would be
Qravelling for business purposes.
ER = Economic Return
C/  YFT    First Year Return
Source: TAMS/ASTEC Feasibility Study, adjusted by appraisal mission
Tebruary 1976
1!
\.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Improve
MOP's Capability for Highway Planning
and Pre-investment Studies
Objectives
1.        Technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) to im-
prove its highway planning capabilities is proposed to be undertaken by con-
sultants over a two-year period. The purposes of this assignment are to
assist MOP in (i) organizing and operating an office for highway planning;
(ii) preparing guidelines for highway feasibility studies; and (iii) provid-
ing on-the-job training for local professional staff in the use of these
guidelines.
Scope of the Services
2.        The services to be provided by the consultants will cover the
following areas:
(a) The preparation and putting into operation of a traffic
counting system for the country's highway network, including
origin-destination surveys;
(b) The analysis and evaluation of the traffic data to be collected
and the manner and methods for retrieving and processing traffic
statistics;
(c) The assessment of the reasons why existing regulations governing
vehicle axle loads are not effectively enforced, and a review
of the incidence of overloading on the country's major routes.
The consultants will recommend and help implement an effective
program for enforcing adequate limits on axle loadings including
the periodic collection, processing, interpreting, and retrieval
of data for planning, pavement design, and maintenance purposes;
(d) The preparation of guidelines for highway economic feasibility
studies and the training of professional local staff in the
application of the guidelines. The services provided should
cover the preparation of selected projects for possible pre-
sentation to an international agency for financing.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staffing
3.        The Ministry of Public lWorks and Communications will be the con-
tracting Government Agency. Counterpart personnel will be provided by the
MOP. For the entire period of the services in Ecuador, the consultants will,
through their day-to-day work, train the counterpart staff in their respec-
tive disciplines.
Staffing
4.        The technical assistance will be provided by specialists of the
consultants, totaling an estimated 50 man-months.
Timing and Reporting
5.        The services will be provided over a period of two years.  Progress
reports at three-month intervals will be prepared during that period and, at
the end, a final report summarizing all work performed will be submitted.
November 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Highway Maintenance
1.        Technical assistance has been included in the proposed project for
a maintenance program in the First Maintenance District of MOP (covering
the Provinces of Carchi, Imbabura, Pichincha, and Esmeraldas). This
assistance is described below.
Objectives
2.        Upon review of the performance in highway maintenance by the Govern-
ment over the last decade, with special reference to the five-year maintenance
program financed under the consortium highway project, the following major
objectives have been set:
(a) to ensure that the national road network will be maintained
in accordance with sound engineering and adequate technical
criteria, including considerations for current volumes of
traffic;
(b) to ensure a rational allocation, and efficient use, of the
maintenance budget of MOP; and
(c) to build up and maintain an administrative and technical staff
capable of managing the business of highway maintenance in the
country.
Scope of Assistance
3.        One of the four maintenance districts will be selected by the
Government, with the Bank's concurrence, for conducting the proposed program.
4.        The consultants will first review the entire Maintenance Department
of MOP, including, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
(a) personnel policies, and the qualifications and distribution of
personnel within the Department, in Quito as well as in the four
maintenance districts;
(b)  an inventory of the assignment and condition of maintenance
equipment in the country;
(c) current maintenance practices through the Department, covering
(i) road inventory techniques; (ii) scheduling of road
maintenance works; (iii) routine and periodic maintenance



ANNEX 2
Page 2
operations; (iv) equipment management, operation, and maintenance;
and (v) maintenance contracts with the private sector; and
(d)  existing procedures for planning, budgeting, and controlling
maintenance throughout the Department.
5.        Upon completion of the above revtewq, the consultants will determine,
specifically for the First Maintenance District, the need for:
(a) purchase of new equipment;
(b) reassignment of equipment;
(c) improvement in techniques for, and scheduling of, routine
and period.Ic maintenance operations;
(d) improvement of equipment management: and operations;
(e) improvement of garage and workshop operations; and
(f) improved planning, programming, budgeting and controlling
of maintenance activities.
6.        UJpon their review of personnel under paragraph 4 preceding, the
consultants will identify short-range and long-term training needs for al'l
levels of staff, in terms of both on-the-job training and structured training
requirements. Upon consultation with the BaLnk and after review of the con-
sultants' recommendations in this respect, in-service training will be pro-
vided in the First Maintenance District and, to a limited extent, in the
Central Maintenance Department, by the consultants providing technical assist-
ance, whereas more formal training requirements will be met by the Government.
7.        Upon completion of their recommendations under paragraph 5 preced-
ing, the consultants will formulate a two-year maintenance program for the
First Maintenance District, taking into account the need for improved
techniques in routine and periodic maintenance operations, improved equipment
management and operations, improved garage arnd workshop management, and im-
proved planning, programming, budgeting, and controlling procedures.
8.        During the two-year program, technical assistance will be provided
to implement the recommended improvements. I'he consultants' personnel will
be assigned during this phase to the selected district, as well as to the
Central Maintenance Department, to advise local personnel in carrying out the
programs and, more specifically, in establishing coordination between the
First Maintenance District and the Central Department under MOP.
9.        After the first year of the two-yeaLr program, allowing for a feed-
back, the consultants will evaluate progress and modify policy procedures
on the basis of the experience acqluired, thus; making the revised procedures



ANNEX 2
Page 3
available for implementation in the remaining three districts of the country.
On this basis, the consultants will also prepare a draft maintenance program
for the whole country to be carried out by MOP, including the purchase of
equipment needed.
Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
10.       The Maintenance Department of MOP will be the contracting Govern-
ment agency, with overall responsibility under the Directorate General of
Public Works. Counterpart personnel will be provided from among permanent
employees of MOP in the same specialties as those listed under paragraph 11
following.
Staffing
11.       The technical assistance will be provided by the following
specialists of the consultants:
(a) highway maintenance engineers (one with administrative and
management experience, and another with stronger technical
background);
(b) garage and workshop superintendents;
(c) mechanics;
(d) field maintenance superintendents.
A total of about 200 man-months will be required during the period of three
years.
Timing and Reporting
12.       The consultants providing technical assistance will be required to
report to MOP as follows:
(a) an inception report containing the consultants' diagnosis of
the Maintenance Department in general, with specific reference
to the selected maintenance district, two months after mobilization;
(b) an interim report recommending improved work methods and management
procedures, including training, six months after mobilization;
furthermore, this report will outline the recommended two-year
maintenance program;
(c) a second interim report containing a review of procedures
prepared on the basis of feedback from the first year of the
two-year program, and a draft maintenance program for the
whole country, 18 months after mobilization;
(d) monthly progress reports during the three-year period; and
(e) a completion report evaluating the whole 33-month program.
February 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT'
Technical Assistance for High-way Engineering
1.        Technical assistance has been included in the proposed project for
advising MOP in applications of highway engineering.  This assistance is
described below.
Objectives
2.        Upon preliminary review cf performance of MOP in highway engineer-
ing, and particularly in preparing detailed engineering for the proposed pro-
ject, the following major objectives have been set:
(a)  to ensure that the Highway Design Department under MOP
acquires the expertise, and to build up the qualified staff
necessary to carry out,to the limited extent required, and
contract and supervise the execution of, preliminary and
final highway design;
(b)  to ensure that adequate engineering inputs are available
in MOP for preparing technical spec:ifications and contract
documents for highway projects; and
(c)  to improve current highway design practices in Ecuador by
adapting more modern technologies previously not applied in
the country.
Scope of Assistance
3.        The consultants will review the Highway Design Department of MOP,
including, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
(a) current design standards in the whole spectrum of highway
engineering, with special reference to design methods
prepared in 1973;
(b)  qualification and assignment of personnel; and
(c) current procedures for preparing, contracting, and monitoring
engineering design work.
4.        Furthermore, the consultants will review the qualifications of
personnel and the working methods of the Soils and Materials Laboratory of
MOP.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        Upon completion of their review, the consultants will comment on
their findings and recommend specific technical assistance, which will be
given, preferably in connection with designing an actual road, covering, but
not necessarily limited to, the following:
(a) geometric design, survey works, stake-out requirements,
computer applications for earthwork calculations, including
mass diagrams and grades;
(b)  highway capacity evaluations and, if possible, adaptation of
available calculation methods to Ecuadorean conditions,
particularly for trunk roads;
(c) soils and materials studies, field explorations based on
both traditional direct, and more modern indirect methods,
sampling techniques for different purposes, and the entire
range of laboratory testing required for design and con-
struction of embankments, pavements, structures, and founda-
tions. The concept of statistical quality control, and
statistical design parameters will be adapted, and standards
will be formulated for Ecuadorean soils and materials con-
ditions, taking into account the natural variation of their
characteristics;
(d) pavement design, including thickness, design methods and
materials utilization; attempts will be made to adapt low-cost,
surface-treated pavement designs to Ecuadorean conditions (for
instance, methods previously elaborated by USAID for Africa and
Brazil), and to define composition of Ecuadorean commercial
traffic, thus ensuring that pavement design is responsive to
local conditions;
(e) structural design of bridges, large culverts, retaining
walls (both the conventional gravity type and the anchored
type), and other stabilizing structures, including the
foundation; and
(f) review of the standards of presentation for preliminary and
final engineering design and contracting procedures therefor,
as well as. recommendations to standardize presentation for
all consulting services contracted by MOP (standards for pre-
liminary engineering design will correspond to those required
for feasibility studies).
6.        In addition to the different areas of highway engineering discussed
above, the consultants will review, and recommend modifications as required,
technical specifications and contract documents (the consultants' work
with respect to contract documents will be coordinated with the consultants
to the domestic construction industry) as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(a) reviewing the adequacy of existing specifications for major
highway construction and preparing standard specifications
for secondary and feeder roads;
(b) ensuring that statistical design parameters are introduced
to the entire spectrum of engineering design;
(c) ensuring that contract documents published for bidding and
the bidding procedures, including evaluation criteria, are
based, among other things, on adequate engineering inputs.
Staffing
7.        The technical assistance will be provided by the following special-
ists on the consultants' staff:
(a) highway engineer designer (preferably with highway
department experience);
(b) structural engineer;
(c) soils and materials engineer and pavement specialist; and
(d)  highway designer with systems background and ability to
design programs.
A total of about 160 man-months will be required during the period of three
years.
Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
8.        The Highway Design Department and the Soils and Materials Laboratory
of MOP will be receiving the technical assistance; the highway design depart-
ment will be the contracting Government agency with overall responsibility
under the Directorate General of BHighways. Counterpart personnel will be
provided from among permanent employees of MOP in the same specialties as
those listed under paragraph 7 preceding.
Timing and Reporting
9.        The consultants providing technica:L assistance would be required
to report to MOP as follows:
(a) an inception report containing the consultants' findings
and recommendations for a specific plan of action two
months after mobilization;
(b) monthly progress reports during the three-year period; and
(c) separate manuals and/or written design procedures to be
issued as completed.
February 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Assistance to Domestic Road Construction Industry
1.        Technical assistance has been included in the proposed project for
the domestic road construction industry. This assistance is described below.
Objectives
2.        Upon a preliminary review of the performance in highway construction
by the domestic construction industry and of the problems faced by the industry
currently, the following major objectives have been set:
(a) to improve bidding procedures and standard conditions of
contract so that they will be more responsive to local
conditions in general, but specifically dealing with
problems arising from inflation;
(b) to help improve performance -- technical, managerial,
and financial-- of domestic civil works contracts,
particularly in the area of highway construction; and
(c)  to help improve the Ministry of Public Works' (MOP)
posture vis-a-vis civil works contractors, particularly
domestic contractors engaged in highway construction.
Scope of Assistance
3.        The consultants will review the country's environment with respect
to the civil works construction industry, particularly of highway construction,
diagnose the performance of the construction industry, and identify related
problems on the basis of the following: (i) the Bank's Sector Brief (Chapter
2, Volume II); (ii) contacts with, and a review of, the local trade association
of contractors; (iii) contacts with, and review of the role of, engineering
consultants; and (iv) a review of MOP's procedures for preparing, contracting,
supervising and monitoring civil works construction projects. Upon completing
their review, the consultants will prepare a written summary of their
diagnosis and recommended action for:
(a) specific measures for improving standard conditions of
contract, including price variation formulas;
(b) improvements in the effectiveness of the local trade
associations;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(c)  selection of a group of contractors who would receive
technical assistance;
(d)  a detailed program outlining the technical assistance needed
by contractors (technical, managerial, financial), and the
need for training of their personnel; and
(e)  improvements in MOP's working orocedures for preparing
projects, bidding, contracting, supervising and monitoring
highway construction projects.
4.        In addition to their review under paragraph 3 preceding, the con-
sultants will collect data for the period 1972-1975 on four indicators which
are specific to the proposed assistance, and on four additional factors which
are related to the general status of domestic highway contractors engaged by
MOP; these indicators are outlined in detail in Annex 5, which will serve as
a basis to this data collection.
5.        The specific plan of action for technical assistance to be prepared
by the consultants, as described in paragraph 3 preceding, will concentrate
on individual contractors registered in the Construction Department of
MOP; such plan of action will include elements of in-service and/or structured
training. The action proposed will cover, but not necessarily be limited to,
the following:
(a)  for the domestic contractors
(i)  forms of prequalification, bidding, and contract
documentation, including conditions of contract,
specifications, drawings, bonding, methods of pay-
ments, claims and arbitration, etc.;
(ii)  estimating of costs and pricing of bids, including
risks analysis;
(iii) record-keeping for cost control;
(iv)  programming and scheduling of civil works, including
mobilization, equipment maintenance, materials
purchase and storage;
(v)  general financial planning and budgetary control; and
(vi)  personnel management and training.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(b) for MOP personnel
(i)  preparation of proper prequalification, bidding, and
contract documentation;
(ii) evaluation of prequalification and bidding submissions;
(iii)  the duties and responsibilities of "engineer" and
"employer";
(iv) supervision and site records;
(v)  payment provisions and procedures; and
(vi) disputes and arbitration.
Staffing
6.        The technical assistance will be provided by the following special-
ists of the consultants, or by individual consultants comprising the follow-
ing specialties:
(a) civil works contract specialist (with considerable experience
in contracting, management, and finance);
(b) highway engineer with construction and supervision experience; and
(c) workshop superintendent with experience as equipment mechanic
--if recommended for the second phase of the technical assist-
ance.
A total of about 20 man-months will be required during an 18-month period.
Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
7.        The Construction Department of MOP and individual contractors
will receive the technical assistance. MOP will be the contracting Govern-
ment agency. Counterpart personnel will be provided from among permanent
employees of MOP in the Construction Department; when individual contractors
are selected for technical assistance for the second phase, their managerial
and technical personnel will be considered as counterparts to the proposed
program.
Timing and Reporting
8.        The consultants providing technical assistance will be required
to report to MOP as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(a)  an inception report containing the consultants' diagnosis
of the construction industry and MOP, and their specific
recommendations for technical assistance during 10 months,
two months after mobil:Lzation;
(b) monthly progress reports throughout the duration of the 10-month
program; and
(c) a completion report upon termination of the technical assistance
identifying the need for future efforts by the Government and
by the construction industry itself.
February 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Factors for Post Completion Monitoring of
Domestic Construction Industry
Factors Specific to Technical Assistance
(a) Introduction of price escalation formula in civil works
contracts (date, particulars, etc.).
(b) Incidence of cost overruns, measured as the average of
overruns for projects completed in a given year and
expressed as a percentage of the initial contract amounts.
(c) Incidence of time overruns measured as the average of
percentage time overruns on contracts completed in a given
year.
(d) Time lag of MOP payments of civil works contracts, measured
as the average period of collecting invoices by the ten
largest contractors working for MOP, and expressed as the time
ellapsed between the date of approval of an invoice by the
district engineer and/or supervisory consultants, and the
date on which MOP authorizes payment.
Factors Relating to General Status of the Domestic Highway Construction Industry
(a) Number of domestic firms registered in MOP (or members of
trade association).
(b) Capital subscribed.
(c) Value of work executed annually.
(d) Number and value of contracts awarded annually.
September 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHEWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference For Transport Planning and Coordination
Objectives
Technical assistance for transport planning and coordinating
will be provided by consultants over a period of nearly three years in two
stages, with the objectives of enabling the Government to:
(i) formulate a detailed, medium-term and a prospective long-term
program of transport investments;
(ii) improve planning and organization of each transport mode;
(iii) improve transport policies, especially those related to
effective coordination among all modes of transport; and
(iv) assist the Government in setting up, first, the planning
unit for land transport within MOP, and, as a second stage,
the sectoral planning unit within the Government structure
to be decided later; recruit and train adequate Government
personnel in transport p:Lanning; and provide on-the-job
training to ensure that, by the end of the three-year
period, MOP and the sectoral planning unit to be created
will be capable of carrying on their functions without
further technical assistance.
Scope of Consultant Services - Technical Terms of Reference for TPCU
The services to be provided by the consultants will cover the same
areas as those in which the Government planning units will act after their
establishment. The consultants' personnel w:Ll work side by side with counter-
part staff assigned by Government on a permanent basis in order to initiate
and continue action in the following areas:
1.   Sectoral Economics and Planning (Multimodal)
(a) the review, compilation and updating of data on traffic
generating sources and preparation of traffic forecasts;
(b)  the determination of financial and economic operating
costs for the several modes of transport under various
operating conditions;
(c) the analysis of economic benefits to be derived from
recommended transport programs and the determination of
economic priorities of ma1or programs;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(d) the review and analysis of current and proposed Government
laws, regulations and procedures relating to transport
pricing, entry and route permits, determining to which
extent these are effectively implemented; analyzing the
economic and social objectives of these regulations
and their effectiveness;
(e) the determination and analysis of total distribution costs
for major commodities by each of the various modes for
domestic and international traffic, examining the tradeoff
between service, time and cost and the effect that user
choices for various transport services have on the final
cost of the commodity to the consumer;
(f) the review and analysis of the present structure and level
of user charges in the various transport modes and the
relationship between charges and economic costs; and
(g) the formulation of criteria to evaluate and select
transport investments and the recommendation of procedures
for reviewing and updating transport investment programs,
determining their economic feasibility and priority con-
sidering budgetary constraints.
2.   Sectoral Statistics and Information Systems
(a) the revision and evaluation of existing transport data,
identifying areas where additional and more reliable data
are required; and
(b) the type of data to be collected, the format for presenting
the data for analysis and the methods of storage, as well as
the preparation of forms for the collection of data and the
methods of collection, all at the lowest cost sufficient to
meet the planning requirements.
3.   Modal Reviews and Evaluation _/
Regarding the various transport modes, such as railways, highways,
road transport, ports and shipping, airports and civil aviation and urban
transport, the consultants will:
(a) review and evaluate existing infrastructure and transport
capacity, identifying problem areas and making recommendations
for improvements, in order that services adequately meeting
consumer demand be provided at reasonable prices;
1/   In case of the highway mode, the consultant will simply coordinate with
consultants providing assistance in highway planning (Annex 1) and
incorporate their results in the multimodal system.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(b) review traffic data collecting systmem, traffic counting
programs, and origin and destination surveys, including
international and domestic traffic;
(c) analyze and evaluate transport costs (financial and economic)
and tariffs of the several modes and the financial situation
of the modes, and recommend policies and systems of tariffs
consistent with economic development;
(d) assess the policies and regulations governing the various
modes, determining the extent to which these policies and
regulations are effective in furthering economic development;
and
(e) formulate criteria to evaluate investments in the various modes
and establishing procedures for reviewing and updating investment
programs and determining their feasibility and priority.
4.   Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staffing
The contracting Government: agency will be MOP for both stages. Full-
time counterpart personnel will be provided by MOP in the same specialties as
those listed under 5 following. FoI- the entire period of the services in
Ecuador, the consultants will, through their day-to-day assistance and advisory
services, train the counterpart staff in their respective disciplines.
5.   Staffing
The technical assistance will be provided for two years by the
following specialists of the consultants:
Estimated Man-months
Team Leader/Coordinator                             24
Transport Economist                                  24
Statistician                                         12
Financial Specialist                                 10
Information Specialist                              12
Other Specialists:
Railways                                        8
Highways                                        6
Ports and Shipping                              6
Aviation and Airports                           6
Urban Planning                                  6
Road Transport                                  6
TOT AL                                   120



ANNEX 6
Page 4
6.   Timing and Reporting
The consultants' services will be carried out in three steps:
Phase I (Months 0-3)
To review existing organization of all transport modes and
formulate detailed terms of reference for the two stages of
transport planning (i.e., land transport and sectoral plan-
ning) on the basis of outline under 1 through 3 above. The
terms of reference will be incorporated into an inception
report to be submitted at the end of this phase.
Phase II (Months 4-15)
To analyze Ecuador's transport system, including arrangements
to collect required data, carry out the work described under I
preceding, train counterpart personnel, prepare recommendations
and commence implementation of agreed recommendations. During
this phase,progress reports at three-month intervals after the
inception report will be prepared.
Phase III (Months 16-24)
To prepare a draft transport plan for Ecuador, including invest-
ment plans, recommendations for sectoral policies including
pricing, regulation, and institutional matters, and to assist
in its initial implementation as well as to prepare the sectoral
planning unit's long-term work program. During this phase, the
progress reports will be continued, and, at the end, a final
report, summarizing all work performed and presenting technical
manuals, will be submitted.
March 1976



ANNEX 7
Page 1
ECUIAOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Integrated Rural Development in the Area of Influence
of the Puerto Ila-Garrapata Road
Outline of Proposed Developmene Study
Objectives
1.        A study is proposed to be undertaken by consultants to define and
analyze the area of influence of the proposed road and to propose an integral
plan for the balanced development of the area in order to assure that the
investments made in the road and those recommended by the study in the area's
productive sectors are fully profitable, while at the same time improving the
income levels of local farmers. The study should also make recommendations
seeking that structural and institutional deficiencies are corrected.
Scope of Services
2.        The services to be provided by the consultants will cover the
following areas:
A.   Diagnosis and Preliminary Information
(a) Recompilation of existing studies and basic data;
(b) Additional data collection;
(c) Analysis of the naturaLl resources of the area;
(d) Present land use;
(e) Land tenure and structure;
(f) Human resources;
(g) Commercialization of produce;
(h) Credit sources and availability; and
(i) Extension services.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
B.   Investment Program
3.        Based on the information gathered in Stage 1 and on the observations
of the consultant, a comprehensive program of action and investments should
be prepared, covering the following areas:
(a) Production targets;
(b) Investment targets;
(c) Support services required;
(d) Investment in support and social services; and
(e) Total annual investments required.
C.   Institutional Development Program
4.        Based on the information obtained in A and following the objectives
defined, the consultant should propose plans for the institutional changes
required to implement the Investment Program. In particular, the following
should be studied:
(a) Necessary changes in land tenure;
(b) Definition of optimal farm sizes in accordance with soil
characteristics, land use, etc.
(c) Forest management;
(d) Markets for produce;
(e) Government institutions; and
(f) Management of the projects.
Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staffing
5.        The Ministry of Agriculture alone, or in association with the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications, will be the contracting Gov-
ernment Agency. Counterpart personnel will be provided by the Government.
For the entire period of the services in Ecuador, the Consultants will,
through their day-to-day work, train the counterpart staff in their
respective disciplines.
Staffing
6.        The technical assistance will be provided by specialists of the
consultant, totaling an estimated 40 man-months.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Timing and Reporting
7.             The services will be provided over a period of nine months.
Bi-monthly progress reports during the execution of the study and, at the end,
a final report snmmarizing all work performed and containing the detailed in-
vestment program and the institutional development program will be submitted.
September 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
ECUADOR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Overall Project Supervision and Coordination
1.        Since the project comprises a wide variety of components, including
several sectors outside the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), technical assist-
ance has been included in the project to aid the Government in supervising
and coordinating project activities.
Objectives
2.        The main objectives will be to assist:
(a) MOP in supervising all project activities;
(b) MOP in coordinating with other Ministries and Government
agencies for implementing the project;
(c) MOP in preparing required progress reports to the Bank; and
(d) the Bank in supervising the project in Ecuador.
Scope of Services
3.        The technical assistance provided would be responsible for reporting
progress under the project and advising MOP and other Government Ministries
and agencies, as well as the Bank, of important target dates in the Implemen-
tation Schedule (Annex 9), critical delays, or the lack of action in specific
areas, which may slow down project implementation in general.
4.        With respect to civil works, the project coordinator and supervisor
will, among other things:
(a) review progress in the procurement of contracts, in civil
works, and in the documentation required of the Government for
Bank disbursements;
(b) review recommended design changes and contract amendments,
and recommend action to MOP and the Bank; and
(c) monitor the level of construction supervision by consultants,
their quality control and supervision of contract finance.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        With respect to the technical assistance component of the project,
the project coordinator will aid .MOP, JUNTAPLAN, and other Government agencies
involved in project implementation in:
(a) coordinating the different elements of technical assistance
at the administrative and technical levels;
(b) procuring consultants' services, scheduling their work,
revising terms of reference and drafting contracts;
(c) monitoring contractual pyerformance of consultants in mobilizing,
moving staff, proposing changes in staff and reporting; he will
contact MOP and the Bank for action as necessary;
(d)  monitoring contributions from the different Ministries,
Government agencies and their departments in logistical
support, provision of ccunterpart staff, payments, as
well as in technical areas; and
(e) monitoring the technical aspects of the consultants' work,
in order to identify problems, review detailed methodologies
presented by the consultants, and review training requirements,
including on-the-job training of counterpart staff.
6.        The project supervisor and coordinator will work closely with the
Minister of Public Works, or his designated representative, in order to:
(a) assist MOP at all levels for adequaLte coordination with
other Ministries and Government agencies;
(b)  ensure that decisions and action required of MOP are
forthcoming in time to meet project target dates;
(c) secure efficient communications among the different departments
of MOP which may be responsible for interrelated elements of the
project;
(d) ensure that interdepartmemtal meetings within MOP, as well as
meetings with other Government agencies and Ministries, with
special reference to Junta Nacional de Planificacion, Ministry
of Defense, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Finance, and
FONAPRE,take place as required for timely decisions on matters
relating to the project;
(e)  keep the Bank advised of all developments under the project,
and recommend timing of, and assist in arrangements for,
Bank supervision missions; and



AANNEX 8
Page 3
(f) maintain liaison between the Bank and those Government agencies
involved in execution of the project.
Staffing
7.        The staff required will comprise one senior highway specialist,
preferably with experience in contract monitoring and administration. A
total of about 36 man-months will be required of this expert during the
full duration of the project.
Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
8.        The project supervisor and coordinator will be attached to the
Minister of Public Works or his designated personal representative,
possibly the Subsecretary General of MOP, who would be his counterpart.
MOP will be responsible for hiring the coordinator and for employing him
in accordance with terms of reference herein outlined. In addition, MOP
will furnish an office and logistical support as needed.
9.        The coordinator will always contact other Ministers, or heads of
Government agencies, through the Minister of Public Works, whereas his
counterpart, the Subsecretary General of MOP, will maintain liaison with
other ministries at his own level. The coordinator will keep contact with
the Bank through the Minister of Public Works.
Timing and Reporting
10.       The project coordinator will prepare, on the basis of reports
received from the various consultants, the following documents:
(a) monthly progress reports for the Bank, dealing with the
entire project;
(b) an interim report evaluating the effectiveness of project
supervision and coordination one year after the project
began; and
(c) a comprehensive completion report after the last disburse-
ments were made by the Bank for appraised elements of this
project.
November 1975



intent  I  ~~    -   Ibtail IS   .iuu.                                                                    .      .   .....              .     ...         .      ..                                                  . .      .           j
S  lila.  tie  aad  tt telesIS. obtlt. SAD  at.Sitib  .-.                                                                                                                       .          .     .    .  .           -1.          .     .                      
0,    tnaltl                                                            C ..l                      .                             .    .    .    .                             . .    ..- 
9.    ifltiat*  itsit*il*  & aa.a.t.t.O.                                                                                        .  .         .     .  .                                 hJ    . .      .     .     .                     
mmttn.t .                                                            .-4...                                                                                           .      . S                          ..                               .     .                              . .    .     .                      
~~iai.   S    Oni ~             ~                 ~                .    .          .  t. -.. .-                                                                                                                                                                                    .         
13  ttO  t &  Metal,. iaiwbtaa  .ta.a..l..i..a.t                                                                                                                                                                                          .                .    
tba.la  ISO  .wnit  i.aat.   5.                                                                                                                                    .     .-           .                . .          . .                .           . .         
IS.    inisal. paa,aiit*. alma  .l.a..f.l..it                                                                                                                                                            .     .t.              .            .     .            .     .    
*1.1.iS   ~iiiid                            tinpa        IV                                          .                                           . .     .     .     .      .     .     .                                               
18.    tattatat  lailat.  & tl.t.a. l.id.                                                                                                                                                         .      .C. .l.                  .          .           .            .    
It.    latabtt.b   it., .n                                                                                                           .                 . .         . .                .           . .          . .          . .at.                         . .t.         . 
at.    Stilt  a   aaiii it.t.                                                                                                          .     .     .p..i..t..i..t.t                                                     .                .l ..                .               a 
at  Itaptyt  Lttti  f.t ..a..t..t.                                                                                                                                    . .i               .                .     . .          . .          .          .a       .         
*~~~~~ is  .it-O           -        Li. -.                                                                                                     .     .                 . .     .                . I     .                . .     .                . .     .               
tt.    tottalt data. .hlp..,. i.                                                                                                      .            .     .      .      .          .     . .          .     . .         .      .            .     .           .      .S .I.                  
at.    eeapata dalhll  .f.a.                                                                 .ta.l.                                                         .     .     .       .         i.           .     .-.          .     .-
2,.    inaaita  piaaili.  aiti.i.i .tS..e.Il.a                                                                                                                                                                             .                 .           .            .    
.&t.t.   S   aial.                                                                  ...a. ..t                                        . ..5                     . .    .                . .     .                . .     .                . .     .                 . .    .               
it.  ralihItIt aelata. 4 ttttlai tauit          tla
11.11  -  lattflt.. if                                                                      a  ji  S  Nag% Cal- A
Ittat. t  ilal                                             m. Ai    -W  .6.o.    -t~LA                                       -_ .



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Indicators, Babahoyo-Balzapamba Highway
(Traffic Volumes, AADT)
Type of      Babahoyo By-pass             Babahoyo-Palmar              Palmar-Montalvo           Montalvo-Balsapamba
Y E A R                Vehicle    Forecast       Measured      Forecast      Measured      Forecast      Measured      Forecast      Measured
Completion Date                Light 1/
Bus
Truck
Completion Date + 1 year       Light
Bus
Truck
Completion Date + 2 years      Light
Bus
Truck
Completion Date + 3 years      Light
Bus
Truck
Completion Date + 4 years      Light
Bus
Truck
1/ Passenger cars, jeeps and pick-ups
October 1975






IBRD-11882R1
RVQO V 6100   E                                                                rOo :  0 .   CKA.  77!                  75 00                                    73JOD                 MARCH R197
ECUADOR
0                                    ~~~~~FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
D E ii   A ;ARAM     L                                                     TRANSPORT  NETWORK
f   f L \  u    TAMURnl    L   SPA E  A,LD A 5  El 0/ 0A DT                                              PUeTTO IaARRAPATA RURAL DEVELOPMENT STRDYeA
OW                                                                                                                                                         RAIOA C    ;;Xfz>Sni ~+AIPDTWITAL  SELO*SERICE
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
-R ITRATIONALEASA-
k  /B~~~~~~~~~~ -\_,/                                  I              DP  °PTs4P                                                -   Mi-&^                           ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F 0.II  
LT.w: mPor-S nso e.
P-.N.
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
44                                                               .1 . 1
'-/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     -
COO¶  II~                      N....)                                                                                                 ThE ODARIAOI 0005 OT lA  050 dO TGII
sbo                              700                                     noo                                      30                   IOPIIABELIROOTC 
..                                                                                                          O~~~~I)' RTJTPEITTRRI TI DCAIIAIIIP  Sy  ISO  1<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



