Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4J.3
Report No. 9139-PNG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
JANUARY 3, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not c.herwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of January 1991)
Currency Unit   =   Papua New Guinea Kina (K)
$1.00     =   K 0.96
K 1.00    =   $1.04
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer          =       0.62 miles (ml)
1 cubic meter (n3)   =       35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 metric ton (mton)  =       2,204.62 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDAB   -   Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
BCL     -   Bougainville Copper Limited
BPNG    -   Central Bank of Papua New Guinea
CG      -   Consultative Group
DEC     -   Department of Environment and Conservation
DFP     -   Department of Finance and Planning
DLPP    -   Department of Lands and Physical Planning
DTI     -   Department of Trade and Industry
DW      -   Department of Works
EEC     -   European Economic Community
ELCOM   -   Electricity Commission
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
GOPNG   -   Government of Papua New Guinea
HLGS    -   Home Loan Guarantee Scheme
HLISS   -   Home Loan Interest Subsidy Scheme
HRF     -   Housing Refinancing Facility
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
IMF     -   International Monetary Fund
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
NCDIC   -   National Capital District Interim Commission
NHC     -   National Housing Corporation
NTF     -   National Task Force on Shelter Policy and Planning
PFI     -   Participating Finincial Institution
PIP     -   Public Investment Program
PTC     -   Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
PPAR    -   Project Performance Audit Report
RMU     -   Road Maintenance Unit
SAC     -   Structural Adjustment Committee
SBDC    -   Small Business Development Corporation
SIP     -   Special Interventions Project
SOE     -   Statements of Expenditure
TA      -   Technical Assistance
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO   -   United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UPNG    -   University of Papua New Guinea
USPP    -   Urban Settlements Planning Project
UHIP    -   Urban Housing Improvement Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            The Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PNG)
Beneficiaries:       National Housing Corporation, National Capital District
Interim Commission, Small Business Development
Corporation.
Amount:              $30.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:    Part of the proceeds of the loan, equivalent to $12.0
million, will be onlent at the Central Bank's variable
discount facility rate (currently 10.3 percent) for
periods of 10 to 20 years to refinance mortgage loans made
at market interest rates by commercial banks to eligible
purchasers of serviced lots and houses. The Government of
PNG would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives: They include:  (i) enhancing employment opportunities
among low income and unemployed urban workers through
labor intensive work programs such as drainage and house
construction; (ii) providing finance for mortgages for low
and middle income houseowners; (iii) assisting small
contractors and entrepreneurs; and (iv) strengthening
project p'.anning, monitoring and management.
Project
Description:        (a) Provision of housing and plot mortgages through a
Housing Refinancing Facility (HRF) and commercial banks,
(b) strengthening of the National Housing Corporation,
(c) improvement of about 12,000 meters of side drainage
along selected national roads, (d) carrying out a drainage
masterplan study and an urban services study,
(e) providing technical assistance to smiall industry, and
(f) strengthening project planning, management and
monitoring in the Department of Finance al,d Planning.
Benefits and
Risks:             Increased employment opportunities (about 6,500 person
years), for large numbers of skilled and unskilled workers
at construction sites for drainage and housing throughout
the country, will be created. About 2,000 households will
benefit from the introduction under the project of long-
term mortgages through the HRF. Also, a major source of
future employment growth in PNG lies in the developmen' of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
small contractors and other entrepreneurs; this is to be
fostered under the projects small industry TA component.
The main risk would be that project implementation could
be slow due to inadequate managerial capacity particularly
in NHC and DFP. To alleviate this risk, Government has
established, and will retain, a special committee in DFP
for overseeing project implementation. Also institutional
strengthening will be provided for NHC. Delays in land
titling could also adversely affect new housing site
development. However, this will not delay the project
much since it depends mainly on the sale of existing
serviced plots. Finally, their assurances notwithstand-
ing, Commercial Banks could be slow or reluctant to
finance mortgages for low- and middle-income applicants.
This is mitigated by the fact that house and plot buyers
will be allowed to use their accumulated savings in the
National Provident (pension) Fund for their downpayments
and that payroll deductions will be permitted for periodic
payments. Government determination to improve housing
must also be considered to be an overall risk mitigating
factor.
Estimated Project
Costs:                                          Local      Foreign    Total
-(---^ ($ million) -------
A. Housing                                 8.93        14.17      23.10
B. Drainage                                3.27         6.06       9.33
C. Industry                                0.55         1.87       2.42
D. Management and Monitoring               0.3'         2.13       2.50
Base Cost                            13.12        24.23     37.35
Physical contingencies                     0.51         0.90       1.41
Price contingencies                        0.60         0.97       1.57
Total Prolect Cost                   14.23        26.10     40.33
Financing Plan:                                    Local     ForeiRn    Total
------ ($ million) -------
Government of PNG                          0.99         -          0.99
Participating Institutions                 4.00         -          4.00
Homeowners                                 5.34         -          5.34
IBRD                                       3.90        26.10     30.00
Total Financing                      14.23       26.10      40.33



_ $$$ -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                        1991         1992        1993
…-…----- ($ million) --…----
Annual                          8.0         12.0        10.0
Cumulative                      8.0         20.0        30.0
Economic Rate
of Returna        Calculated at 35 percent for housing and, based on the
typical rates of return associated with road maintenance
projects in PNG, about the same for the project as a
whole.
Han:                 IBRD #22612



- iv -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND ........... ...  1
A. Background.                                                       1
B. Recent Developments.                                             1
C. Government Response.                                              2
D. Program of Special Interventions . . . . . . . . . . . . .        3
II. PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE.                                             5
III. THE PROJECT..                                                         7
A. Housing..  ......  7
B. Drainage   ..12
C. Small Industry TA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
D. Management and Monitoring .16
E. Costs and Financing .17
F. Procurement   ..18
G. Disbursements .20
H. Reporting .21
I. Accounting and Auditing .21
J. Bank Supervision .21
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS .22
V. BENEFITS AIS RISKS    ..22
A. Benefits .22
B. Risks    ...... .                                               23
C. Justification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . .    24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. E. James (Mission Leader), G. Faillace (Snr. Financial Officer,
AF4IN), E. Peterson (Consultant Architect/Planner), J. Kearns (Institutional
Consultant) and N. Makap (Environmental Consultant) which visited PNG in
September 1990. Peer reviewers were Messrs. A. Pellegrini, R. Ramani,
J. Shirazi and Ms. A. Nassau.



ANNEXES
1. Housing and the Urban Sector
2. Financial Sector and Participating Banks
3. HRF Guidelines
4. National Housing Corporation
5. NHC Policy Statement
6. Project Implementation Schedule
7. Estimated Disbursements Schedule
8. Documents and Data in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Department of Finance and Planning
2. National Housing Corporation
3. Department of Works
MAP: IBRD No. 22612. Special Intervea.tions Project



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1       Papua New Guinea (PNG) has a population of about 3.8 million and a
land area of 461,000 km2. It has over 100 islands but most of the population
is concentrated on the New Guinea main island which borders Indonesia. PNG
has a mountainous topography with many small, dispersed and isolated
population centers (6 persons per km2 on average); only about 15 percent of
the population is considered to be urban. Agriculture is the most important
economic sector in the country, accounting for about one third of GDP
(estimated at K 3.1 billion in 1989) and most of non-mineral exports. It also
provides a livelihood to about 85 percent of the population. However only
about 30 percent of PNG's land area is considered to be suitable for
agricultural production due to the adverse topography, excessive slopes, high
altitudes, and drainage problems on most of the land.
1.2       Recent estimates (1988) showed that the country had a GNP per capita
of $810. The relatively high figure is due to exports from the mineral sector
and disguises the fact that most of the population depends on subsistence
agriculture. Extensive efforts are being made to develop the non-mineral
economy, especially in urban areas where unemployment is high. However, the
combined effects of factors such as the inadequate and costly transportation
system, low literacy rates, shortages of skilled workers, high labor costs,
housing shortages, inefficient financial markets, rigid Government procurement
systems, and land acquisition problems, have made development of the non-
mineral economy a very difficult task.
B. Recent Developments
1.3       After having deteriorated during the first part of the 1980s, the
overall economic performance of PNG started to improve in the second half.
GDP growth picked up, allowing some recovery in per capita income, the fall in
public investment was halted, both the fiscal and balance of payment deficits
were substantially reduced, inflation was curbed to below 5 percent per annum,
and discipline was restored over external borrowing which improved
Government's debt service position.
1.4       However, the improvement in growth performance was essentially on
account of increased activity in the mining sector and was not broad based
because unemployment, already high, continued rising and non-mining private
investments declined further in real terms. Furthermore, the improving trend
in economic performance came to a halt dramatically in late 1989 primarily
because of (a) the closure of the Bougainville copper and gold mine (BCL)
which resulted from the actions of militant landowners in the North Solomons
province and (b) sharp falls in prices of PNG's commodity exports (coffee,
cocoa, oil palm). Until its closure, BCL had contributed about 35 percent of



-2-
export earnings and 15 percent of government revenue. The mine remains closed
indefinitely. Also, the adverse security situation in the North Solomons
disrupted other important economic activities, especially the production of
cocoa, which is the third most important non-mineral export item of PNG.
These developments entailed severe economic and financial implications for
PNG. It is estimated that, during 1991, they will have a combined net
negative effect on the balance of payments of about 12 percent of GDP, and
cause a loss of fiscal revenues equivalent to 4 percent of GDP. The estimated
impact of these shocks to the economy places PNG close to the upper end of the
magnitude of shocks sustained by countries undertaking adjustment programs in
the 1980s.
C. Government Response
1.5       The Government was quick in recognizing that the shocks confronting
the economy were of a magnitude th&t could easily be destabilizing in the
absence of prompt and strong adjustment measures. The Government also
recognized that in addition to stabilization measures, the emerging
difficulties underscored the need, as well as provided an opportunity, to
undertake more fundamental structural adjustments to accelerate the
development of the nonmining economy and diversify the productive base.
Accordingly, the Government embarked on an adjustment program comprising both
stabilization policies and structural measures facilitating growth-oriented
adjustment. To secure support for its stabilization and structural adjustment
program, the Government entered into a stand-by arrangement with the IMF and
obtained a structural adjustment loan (SAL) from the World Bank. The SAL SLn.
3218-PNG) was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1990. Earlier, the
Government had secured an agricultural sector program loan from ADB to support
sector-related structural adjustments.
1.6       The adjustment program supported by the SAL comprises the following
main elements: macroeconomic policy adjustments to maintain financial
stability; improvements in public resource management, through strengthening
revenue mobilization, improving expenditure management, rationalizing the
civil service and enhancing institutional capacities; and promotion of the
nonmining private sector, through adjustments in exchange rate and wage
policies, investment deregulation, privatization, and trade policy reform.
The Government has been making good progress in implementing this adjustment
program.
1.7       While the implementation of the Government's program will facilitate
an early economic recovery, adjustments necessitated by the large financial
losses arising from the shocks are however having an adverse effect on
incomes, particularly for the urban wage and salary earners. In order to
mitigate these costs, the Government has been taking several steps. First, in
allocating expenditure cuts, basic services and programs aimed at
disadvantaged groups and poorer areas have as far as possible been protected.
Second, the Government is facilitating the reemployment in the private sector
of those affected by civil service reform through retraining and improved
placement mechanisms. Third, the Government has prepared a program of special
interventions aimed specifically at offsetting the social costs of adjustment,
which will include, for example, projects in housing, improvement of health
facilities, and agriculture research and extension services. This program



- 3 -
will involve a total outlay of about $76.8 million, which will be funded
predominantly frem external concessional assistance.
D. The Program of Special Interventions
1.8       Objectives.  They include mainly (a) addressing the more urgent
social needs arising from PNG's ongoing economic adjustment by enhancing
employment opportunities among low income, unemployed and underemployed urban
workers; and (b) strengthening the institutional capacity of the Government to
better formulate and implement projects. The program is expected to provide
about 10,000 person-years of productive jobs over a two- to three-year period
beginning January 1991 and thus help to alleviate urban and rural poverty and
cushion the effects of layoffs in the public sector.
1.9       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  Currently, PNG faces the challenges
of undertaking structural reforms and managing the adjustmenc process while
laying the foundations for accelerated growth. Because of its long
association with the key sectors of the economy in the form of sector work or
lending and because of its chairmanship responsibility for the Consultative
Group (CG) for PNG the Bank is well placed to act as a catalyst in
coordinating donors' support for the program of special interventions and to
fund the financing gap. If the structural adjustment program as agreed can be
sustained and the public and private flow of external funds is maintained, it
should be possible f3r PNG to return to a reasonably healthy growth pattern in
the medium term. The program of special interventions would make an important
contribution to this effort. Although some of this program's componp"ts may
have a lasting impact on the endemic problems facing the unemployed aiid
underemployed, they have been designed to address largely the more pressing
short-term challenges facing the country.
1.10      Selection Criteria.  In response to Government's request received
during the appraisal of the SAL operation the Bank sent an identification
mission to PNG in March 1990.  In selecting components, the main criteria
taken into account by the mission were: (i) contribution to employment and
incomes; (ii) readiness for implementation and hence quick disbursements;
(iii) high priority in the Public Investment Program (PIP); (iv) satisfactory
economic and social rates of return; and (v) given the inadequate
institutional and staffing capacity, reliance to the extent possible, on
existing organizational mechanisms and arrangements. The components
identified were as follows: (a) Housing: Technical Assistance to the
National Housing Corporation (NHC) and a line of credit for housing mortgages;
(b) Urban water supply: Minor but urgently required extensions to existing
systems; (c) Road drainage and maintenance: Provision of earth and concrete
drainage, including culverts, at road sections where pavement failure, due to
saturated soil, is a threat; (d) Health facilities and supplies: Construction
of urban clinics, health posts, hospital expansion, staff housing and the
provision of medical supplies; (e) Small industry development: A program of
technical assistance for the Small Business Development Corporation (SBDC)
directed at the development of small contractors and entrepreneurs; and
(f) Agriculture: equipment and operational support for research and extension
4ctivities.
1.11      Donor Participation.  The Government wished to finance the program
using grant and/or concessionary funding as much as possible. During the



- 4 -
joint (Bank and Other Donors) pre-appraisal mission, it was agreed to separate
the program into groups of components of special interest to the donors.
These components would subsequently not be strictly cofinanced but the DFP,
through the Structural Adiustment Committee (SAC), would provide a management
and monitoring umbrella. Hence it was decided that the (a) ADB would provide
concessional funds for the health, water supply and agriculture components;
(b) IBRD would finance housing, industry and most of the drainage component,
as well as project monitoring and management; and (c) EEC would provide
concessional funding for the remainder of the drainage component. The
following table shows financing details.
PROGRAM OF SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS: FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Total   Donor Financing
Component                      cost    Amount        z      Remarks
A. ADB-financed
Health and water supply        13.2      10.6        80  Project recently
approved
Medical supplies                3.6       3.6       100  Approved reallocation
from an ongoing project
Agriculture extension
and research                 15.6     12.5         80  Tentative amounts
B. IBRD-financed
Housing                        23.7      14.3        61
Road drainage                  11.3      10.5        92
Small industry TA               2.6       2.5        98
Management and monitoring       2.7       2.7       100
C. EEC-financed
Road drainage                   4.1       4.1       100  Preparation underway
Total /a                  76.8     60.8       79.1
/a In addition the AIDAB is contributing $5.2 million to a police housing
scheme (Total cost = $6.2 million).
1.12      Donors subsequent actions have so far been satisfactory.  The ADB
support has been formulated as two new projects together with a reallocation
of funds from an ongoing project. The Government and the ADB have completed
negotiations for the Health and Water Supply project. A separate Agriculture
Project is scheduled for approval in early 1991. The EEC has hired
consultants to prepare dossiers (similar to preliminary engineering) on its
part of the drainage component. It will fund 100 percent of LCB contracts for
drainage works and is on schedule for project start-up in the second quarter
of 1992. The IBRD-financed group of components, or the Special Interventions
Project, is the focus of the rest of this report.



-5-
1.13      As it stands currently, the program has met its secondary objectives
of having a large share of the funding (51 percent) on concessional terms and
requiring minimal counterpart funds from the Government's budget. The
Government's share of total cost is about 9 percent which msinly represents
salaries and wages for existing local staff plus taxes and duties. The
commercial banks and the beneficiaries provide the remainder of the financing
(12.2 percent). Additior.al advantages could accrue to the Government if it
implements the Health and Water Supply project rapidly because all 1991
expenditures will be reimbursed at 100 percent.
II.  PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE
2.1       Bank Group assistance to PNG since its independence in 1975 has
amounted to $467.9 million (13 credits and 20 loans). The Bank has had no
experience before in implementing a project of this nature in PNG. However,
inferences were drawn from Bank experiences overall in PNG and in other
countries facing similar problems which were incorporated in project design.
2.2       Bank experiences in multisector/social fund type operaticns indicate
that implementation results are best when very strong units are built up to
manage them. Hence, these projects usually feature extensive technical
assistance, studies, training, and incremental salary payments for local staff
which are used to virtually build up large new units for the preparation,
implementation and management of projects. This was not done for the proposed
SIP because it was felt that, though weak, the existing institutions are still
functional and only needed normal project type strengthening. Also, the
building up of new institutions was done in countries where economies had been
in severe recession for years, suffered shortages of materials, spare parts,
and had long endured the problems associated with low morale, especially in
the civil service. This is not exactly the situation in PNG. Finally,
sustainability of the new institutions is a major issue; it was done in some
countries by allowing them to charge fees for their services, in particular to
other government agencies. This is probably not warranted in PNG now.
2.3       In housing, the Bank had in 1987/88 executed the UNDP-financed Urban
Settlement Planning Project (USPP). It mostly provided technical assistance
to the then Department of Housing (DOH) with the objective of (a) demons-
trating cost-effective and affordable methods for urban residential land
development; (b) facilitating the incorporation of customary (tribal) land in
such development; and (c) institutional strengthening. Based on the USPP's
recommendations and on other studies ongoing then, the Government decided to
focus on (i) the provision of infrastructure while leaving housing
construction to owners and others, (ii) adopting affordable standards for
infrastruc ure, especially the production of smaller serviced plots; and
(iii) taking steps to speed up the mobilization of both customary and
alienated land. All of these have been incorporated in the design of the
housing component.
2.4       The Bank has in other countries used Government owned housing
finance companies to both develop housing sites and provide mortgages and the
experience has been decidedly mixed. Problems have usually arisen because it
is difficult for a Government institution to satisfy simultaneously both



- 6 -
commercial and development type objectives. Experience shows that it is best
if the development function is separated from social and commercial
(financial) objectives. The combination of objectives is particularly
problematic in the case of rental housing. Usually, collections are poor,
target groups are not met and a low level of service is provided by the
institution. Here factors such as the need to introduce competition to the
Government backed housing channel is seen as a key to junproved service. Other
factors such as land mobilization and tenure issues are also critical. The
design of the housing component takes advantage of the Bank's experience by
having the NHC focus on land mobilization while the commercial banks deal with
the mortgages. The best features of Bank operations involving financial
intermediaries as well as the experience in lending for urbanization and
housing in the region and Bank-wide have therefore been combined in this
component.
2.5       As for road drainage, it has typically been a part of road
rehabilitation or maintenance components in Bank highway projects. The
experieace on maintenance works in PNG was poor until the Bank strengthened
the Road Maintenance Unit (RMU) in the Department of Works (DW) under Loan
2265-PNG (the fourth in a series of road projects). Since then RMU has
consistently performed well and is capable of managing more works were it not
for budgetary limitations. RMU has considerable experience in executing works
by minor contracts with village groups. The main lesson learnt in doing this
is the need to provide adequate supervision and prompt reporting on
implementation issues.
2.6       In institutional strengthening, Bank experience in PNG has been
mixed. Programs similar to the ones under this project seem to depend a lot
on (a) timely recruitment of experts, and (b) commitment of the Government to
carrying the program through. It was learnt under previous projects that due
to Government's existing procedures, it took years to hire experts; this is to
be changed to a much more simplified system as part of the agreements
incorporated into the SAL on streamlining procurement procedures. Government
commitment to improved works monitoring and efficient ports management (under
five highway loans and two port loans) has led to successful institutional
strengthening of operating units in these subsectors. A similar commitment
seems to exist in the case of the provision of housing infrastructure and the
strengthening of business extension services.
2.7       Overall project implementation experience shows that there have
usually been lengthy delays before effectiveness and a slow start in the
initial years. Afterwards, the implementation experience is reasonably good.
Recent Bank work on absorptive capacity issues showed that these are usually
the result of procedural bottlenecks and institutional weaknesses. Some of
the problems with effectiveness delays will be eliminated by actions to be
taken by the Government under the SAL. The tendency for a slow start-up nas
been reduced by the provision of an experienced project manager and by the
advanced stage of preparation of most project components. Technical
assistance is included in the project for continued strengthening of all
institutions involved.



III. THE PROJECT
3.1       As defined earlier (paras. 1.11-1.13) the Special Interventions
Project (SIP) consists of: (a) housing, (b) drainage, and (c) technical
assistance for small industry, and (d) project management and monitoring.
The following paragraphs provide details on these components.
A. Housing
3.2       Background.  PNG's estimated urban population of about 550,000
represents 15 percent of the total population. The capital city of Port
Moresby has approximately one-third of the nation's urban population, with
seven other urban areas sharing the balance. Nationwide, urban areas are
growing at almost twice the rate of the overall population growth rate (2.2-
2.6 percent per year). The rapid growth has seriously strained urban
services. Housing production has not kept pace with demand, with the result
that multiple-family occupancy and informal settlements have increased. A
recent study determined that there was a backlog of unmet needs in 1990
totalling 26,400 units in the five major towns.l/
3.3       The current provision of housing in PNG is best described in terms
of three broad groupings of people. The first comprises the vast majority of
the population who are still in the informal sector. Their livelihood depends
on subsistence agriculture and they provide adequate traditional housing for
themselves. The second, and the smallest group consists of private
entrepreneurs, expatriates in managerial positions and employees at the top
third of the private sector pay scale. For this group, apartments and high
stAndard houses are provided adequately by the private sector. Quite often
the provision of housing by employers is part of the terms and conditions of
their jobs. This also makes the estimation of their true income range very
difficult because values need to be imputed for these additional benefits.
The third group is composed mainly of people in the urban, formal wage sector
such as civil servants and employees at the lower two-thirds of the private
sector pay scale. The provision of housing has long been inadequate for this
group and this has led to overcrowded living conditions. Conditions have
worsened recently as the Government will no longer provide even the limited
housing it used to, due to budget cuts and changes in policy. The housing
component of the proposed project is targeted to this latter group which has
income levels in the range of K 1,500-K 15,000 per annum, and consists of the
people most adversely affected by the adjustmient program. Most people in this
group will for the first time have no alternative but to purchase their own
housing. This is typically a daunting task, since the housing and financial
sector institutions have so far largely not been geared to producing the
appropriate combinations of serviced land and mortgage financing that would be
affordable to this group. Actually, even in Port Moresby, such a housing
market is at a nascent stage.
1/   Final Report, National Task Force on Shelter Policy and Planning, (NTF),
September 1989.



- 8 -
3.4       Housing Sector.  Serviced house plots produced until recently were
intended largely for Government or private sector housing schemes. The
infrastructure provided (roads, water, sanitation, etc.) tended to be of a
relatively high standard and the individual plots were also quite large. The
smallest plot produced prior to 1989 was 450 a2. There was also no consistent
sales policy for serviced plots, obtaining titles was a slow, cumbersome
process and there was no active marketing effort by the then Department of
Housing (DOH). These factors combined to discourage individuals interested in
buying plots to build their own houses. This has changed now as the
development of a self-sustaining housing market is the Government's goal.
Current Government policy indicates an awareness of sound concepts for the
housing sector including the adoption of affordable and appropriate standards,
the improvement of the land mobilization system, and also the limitation of
Government's role in housing production and management to that of a
facilitator. In keeping with these policies, the National Housing Corporation
(NHC) was created in March 1990, replacing the old Housing Commission and the
Department of Housing. NHC will now have to produce a marketable product; a
start has been made under its USPP project where, for the first time, low cost
serviced plots, as small as 150 n2 will be available for sale. By producing
these plots, which required navigating significant administrative and
bureaucratic barriers, NHC will significantly lower the affordability
threshild for serviced urban plots. As part of its policy for housing sector
development, the Government has also established a Housing Refinancing
Facility at the Central Bank of PNG to encourage commercial banks to provide
mortgage financing (paras. 3.10-3.12). A detailed analysis of housing and the
urban sector is in Annex 1.
3.5       The Financial Sector.  It is dominated by five commercial banks
which, systemwide, have 76 percent of the assets. Supervised by the Central
Bank (BPNG) the financial system operates in an environment that is virtually
free of controls. Commercial bank supervision by BPNG has focused on
monitoring the equity and liquidity ratios, and other variables such as
interest rate spreads and the sectoral distribution of Bank portfolios.
Interest rates were deregulated in 1985 and this has fostered competition
between banks and led to reduced spreads. Commercial banks' interest rates
are now more sensitive to the BPNG discount facility rate (currently
10.3 percent) and to general liquidity in the system. They have heavily
oriented their lending towards commerce, trade and other business. Lending by
commercial banks for housing is a relatively small activity, averaging less
than 3 percent of their portfolio; they however dominate housing finance. Due
to the short-term nature of their deposits (mostly less than 12 months) long-
term lending for housing finance and other term lending is virtually non-
existent. Most housing loans have maturities between 5 to 10 years and are
made at variable market interest rates (typically 13-14 percent). This makes
payment amounts, even for modest housing, unaffordable for most people.
During appraisal, the banks expressed interest in increasing their housing
portfolios and loan maturities, particularly if long-term funding were
available.
3.6       Government intervention in housing finance has been modest, and
there is no directed credit. However, the recent decision to allow members of
the Provident (pension) funds to withdraw most of their contributions and use
them strictly for the purchase of housing will have a significant impact on
effective housing demand. This is because many more people than in the past



will have adequate funds for downpayments. The other main intervention has
been for a Home Loan Guarantee Scheme (HLGS) under which 80 percent of the
loan amount is guaranteed for housing on customary (tribal) held land. This
however was intended mostly to help mobilize the development of housing on
customary land. Unlike loans for housing on, or the purchase of, alienated
land,2/ foreclosure cannot be the banks' remedy in the event of a default.
Instead the banks' only recourse is to the guarantee scheme; this does not
happen very often as, for cultural and other reasons, borrowers performance
under this scheme has been just as good or better than in other segments of
many bank portfolios. Annex 2 has further details on the financial sector.
3.7       Benk Strategy.  The short-term goal of the housing component is to
stimulate housing investment in order to generate employment, incomes, and
increased services to groups who are adversely affected by the adjustments
ongoing in the economy. The longer-term aim of the Bank's efforts is the
development of a sustainable, market-oriented housing finance and development
system that will be capable of serving low- and middle-income families. This
involves the expansion of the housing market through the encouragement of a
broad range of products appropriate to the prevailing social and economic
conditions, and also broadening the effective market by making it possible for
the financial sector institutions to provide affordable mortgage terms. By
supporting a project in the sector now, the Bank could also help the NHC avoid
the pitfalls similar agencies have encountered in other countries.
3.8       Objectives.  The immediate objectives of the housing program include
employment generation and stimulation of the construction industry.
Underlying these are several longer-term sector objectives, including:
(a) the development of market-based housing production and finance systems,
(b) increased provision of affordable housing to lower- and middle-income
urban households; (c) the promulgation of a sound institutional framework for
the sector, including a strengthened National Housing Corporation (NHC) and
active participation by the private sector, and (d) the development of new
procedures for mobilizing customary lands for housing development purposes.
3.9       Description.  The housing component includes:  (a) establishment of
a Housing Refinancing Facility (HRF) in order to help stimulate the provision
by commercial banks of longer term mortgages, and strengthening of the NHC so
as to make it a more efficient provider of serviced plots. Taken together, as
described below, they would serve the immediate and longer-term objectives.
3.10      Housing Refinancing Facility.  The HRF is a recently established
facility in the BPNG for the refinancing, at its discount rate, of 75 percent
of the long-term mortgage amounts provided by private sector commercial banks.
$12.0 million of the proposed Bank loan would be used to support this
refinancing facility. Three commercial banks were appraised and found
eligible to be Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) for the purposes of
the HRF. The availability of refinancing for long terms would enable the PFIs
to provide long-term mortgage financing at a variable market interest rate.
This interest rate would be set by the PFIs and, based on current spreads for
mortgages, is expected to be 2-3 percent above the discount rate. Plot and
2/   Land which has been purchased from customary (traditional) owners by the
Government. It has a title and can be charged to secure payment of debt.



- 10 -
house purchasers would be expected to make down payments in the range of 25
percent of purchase price. PFIs would bear the full credit risk. The HRF
guidelines have been agreed by Government, the PFIs and the BPNG and are
acceptable to the Bank. At negotiations the Government also agreed, as a
condition of effectiveness, to sigYn a subsidiary agreement with the BPNG which
would be acceptable to the Bank. In addition, a participating agreement
between each PFI and the BPNG will have to be signed as a condition of
disbursement from the HRF for eligible mortgages originated by a PFI; a model
document for this purpose was agreed on at negotiations.
3.11      The HRF guidelines (see Annex 3) include provisions that housing
loans eligible for refinancing will be limited to (a) low- to middle-income
households (defined as those with annual incomes below K 15,000); (b) housing
started during the project period, hence the modest size of the HRF ($12.0
million); and (c) those made without government loan guarantees and interest
subsidies. Limiting HRF involvement to non-guaranteed loans virtually
precludes refinancing mortgages for properties on customary land. So as to
foster competition in the housing sector, PFI loans for the purchase of plots
developed by private entrepreneurs will also be eligible for HRF refinancing.
3.12      The HRF will be operated by the BPNG with the support of technical
assistance which would be provided under the project. The terms of reference
for this support have been finalized by the Government and the BPNG. Since
the BPNG is unfamiliar with HRF-type operations and a prompt start-up is
essential, it was agreed at negotiations that the hiring of an expert to
initially operate the HRF would be a condition of effectiveness. BPNG staff
have recently received training through an IMF program geared to strengthening
their supervision function. Once the HRF becomes fully operational, they will
be able to continue running it well.
3.13      National Housing Corporation.  As the main provider of serviced
house plots for the target group, the NHC role is of importance.  Hence its
status, organizational structure and capabilities, and its financial prospects
were subjected to a detailed analysis (see Annex 4). NHC is a viable
organization but it needs further strengthening and this will be provided
under the project. NHC is committed to carrying out its mandate. It has
already converted its Establishment Act into a draft Policy Statement which is
intended to guide its further operational and organizational development.
This policy statement was reviewed by th Bank and found to be acceptable (see
Annex 5).  NHC's policy will basically bL  i concentrate its attention and
energy on producing serviced sites on both alienated and customary land, using
mainly private contractors for land development, while allowing the purchaser
to decide how to construct structures on the plot. The policy statement sets
specific and appropriate objectives for the financial performance of the
corporation and establishes policies and procedures to ensure that due care
and diligence is taken with respect to Government's laws on environment,
resettlement and other social concerns. The statement also restricts NHC to
serving people whose incomes fall within this project's mr"et range. The NHC
Board has reviewed and agreed in principle with the dra t P. icy Statement.
At negotiations the Government agreed to finalize the policy statement by
December 1991.
3.14      Implementation.  Land development and house construction included in
the proiect will take two years to complete. For new site development,



- 11 -
infrastructure to be constructed would include roads, drainage, water supply,
and sanitation, for plots subdivided in a variety of types which are keyed to
the range of beneficiary income levels, and follow the revised designs and
planning standards developed under USPP. Infrastructure installation will be
by NHC through private contractors and house construction will be arranged by
beneficiaries themselves. Interim financing for construction by NHC
contractors would be through internally generated NHC funds and/or short-term
borrowings by NHC in the local financial market which are readily available.
World Bank funds would not be available to NHC for plot development. The
implementation schedule is in Annex 6.
3.15      Housing Development.  Twenty-three hundred serviced plots on
alienated land are expected to be available for sale during the project
period. Of this total 1,500 are currently in the NHC inventory of unsold and
"pipeline' plots, 700 will be from the USPP sites, and 100 are estimated to
come from private developers. It is estimated that, given their limited
experience, a feasible sales target for NHC during the projec- period would be
about 1,700 plots, and that all of the 100 privately developed plots can be
sold, for a total of 1,800 plots. It is further estimated that houses will be
built on all 1,800 plots. These estimates have been made very conservatively.
It is possible that a greater supply of new plots will come from private
sector developers.
3.16      Because of the inclusion of existing plots, the project will finance
housing built under two different sets of standards and with different pricing
structures. The inventory plots, built under earlier programs, are not
designed to the more affordable standards of the later USPP plots, the minimum
plot size being 450 n2. The typical combined house and plot cost for these
larger plots is expected to be K 16,500. On average, a lower-cost plot with a
modest house is expected to cost K 11,200. The lowest cost combined plot and
house solution available would be around K 7,800 (K 1,800 plot with a house at
K 6,000). For more details see Annex 1.
3.17      The overall new housing expenditures during the project period will
total about K 20 million.3/ This should generate about K 11.5 million in
mortgage refinancing (disbursements) from the HRF. Mortgages for houses on
the existing 1,100 NHC and private developer plots are expected to generate
K 7.12 million in disbursements from the HRF. Mortgages for purchases of new
plots should generate K 1.34 million, and for houses on these plots an
additional K 3.07 million in disbursements from the HRF. Also, in all cases,
the overall loan to value ratio will not exceed 80 percent.
3.18      Buyers of existing plots will be expected to fund the total cost of
the plot, through employer assistance, provident fund accounts (superannuation
funds), savings, or standard bank loans. The plots could then serve as the
equity needed to enable the buyer to obtain a mortgage for house construction.
Thus the purchase of a plot would constitute a down payment on the total plot
and house investment.
3/   Beneficiary payments on existing plots--about K 5.5 million are not
included in the total cost.



- 12 -
3.19      AffordabilitY.  Mortgage lending rates to project beneficiaries will
be variable and market-based. Assuming terms of 13 percent interest per annum
at 17 years with 25 percent downpayments, and a 25 to 30 percent allocation of
household income to mortgage amortization, the average lower-cost unit could
be purchased by families earning about K 4,500 per year, which is below the
median annual income (K 5,700) of the target group. Similarly, the average
higher-standard unit would be affordable to families earning about K 6,500 per
year, slightly above the estimated target group median. Again, these are
conservative estimates since PFIs may make loans with terms longer than 17
years; this will further enhance affordability. The income estimates are
based on an analysis of data which covers the population group most severely
affected by the stabilization program. Ongoing work by NHC under USPP will in
future reach more families in informal settlements. These settlements are on
customary land, where titling formalities have not yet been worked out fully.
Technical Assistance under SIP will advance the development of the necessary
procedures and formalities to include customary land in future programs which
are expected to reach families with even lower income levels.
3.20      Institutional Strengthening.  Technical assistance would be provided
through the project to assist NHC to strengthen its institutional capacity and
consolidate the lessons it will learn from the development and sale of
affordable plots with mortgages provided by commercial banks. NHC needs
technical assistance if it is to handle both its new tasks under the SIP, such
as selling plots, as well as existing tasks such as management of the
Government's rental houses. The program would provide assistance to help NHC
transform its inherited administrative culture to the more market-responsive
one required by an efficient shelter development corporation. Areas to be
strengthened include: marketing, product development, customer service.
financial management; strategic and operational planning; personnel
management; and operational management systems and procedures development.
Annex 4 has more details, including a timetable for the implementation of this
program. Given the importance of the NHC role in the project, at negotiations
the Government agreed on the timetable for strengthening of the NHC.
3.21      Studies on the long-term prospects for sustainability of the HRF
will also be done by the BPNG in conjunction with the DFP. This will include
analyzing measures, such as home savers schemes, which could help to make
long-term lending for mortgages (and the HRF concept) sustainable. The
strategies for introducing other long-term instruments such as bonds will also
be examined, pending the findings of the Bank's financial sector work. Funds
are also included for the NHC and DFP to carry out studies to: (i) further
develop an understanding of the demographic, economic, social and structural
forces that affect the development and provision of affordable shelter to low
income families, (ii) determine the causes of high shelter construction costs
and develop means of reducing them so as to increase the supply of housing
affordable to low income families; and (iii) further develop and synthesize
GOPNG's housing policy work in order to provide clearer sector operational
strategies. NHC will also carry out feasibility studies for a follow-on
housing project. Further details on the program of studies are in Annex 4.
B. Drainage
3.22      Background and Rationale.  During the last two decades, the road
building program in PNG has been quite extensive. Many kilometers of new



- 13 -
roads were built, but by far the major part of the expenditures were for the
paving of existing gravel and other poorly surfaced roads. Often in the urban
areas, this paving of roads was carried out without the provision of adequate
drainage. New national roads were fully engineered and built under contracts
which included the provision of drainage and hence a higher proportion of
these roads are relatively well drained. Extensive portions of the existing
national road network still need drainage improvements and the World Bank
under Loan 2742, already funds a national roads maintenance program which, to
some extent, includes drainage works. The extension of this program to other
national roads, especially in urban areas, is timely and fully justifiable.
3.23      Objectives.  By virtue of its labor intensive nature, this component
aims to both generate employment and to extend the economic life of several
hundred kilometers of national roads, especially in or near urban centers, by
providing drainage at sections where pavement failure due to poorly drained,
saturated subsoils is a threat.
3.24      Description.  The drainage works comprise the construction of about
12,000 meters of roadside drains along national roads in Port Moresby and
other urban areas and also along major intercity network roads. They range
from culverts and lined drainage channels in Port Moresby, to small stone-
pitched and earth drains. The highest priority works have been identified by
National Capital District Interim Commission (NCDIC) and Department of Works
(DW) staff in the provinces on the basis of traffic volumes, importance of
road section, severity of drainage problems, risk of complete failure, and
other technical criteria. The associated repairs of adjacent road sections
deteriorated due to poor drainage will also be carried out. Only the most
immediate drainage needs would be addressed by this component. A summary by
province showing road lengths, estimated costs, and person-days of employment
generated as well as details on the projects within each province are in the
project file.
3.25      Implementation.  The drainage improvements on national roads in
Port Moresby will be implemented by the Works Branch of the NCDIC. The Roads
and Drainage Maintenance Section of the Works Branch is responsible for the
maintenance of local and national roads and has, during the past few years
managed an increasing volume of maintenance works at high standards using
mainly small contractors and youth groups. Expansion of this program under
the project will not overtax the supervision capacity of the Works Branch.
3.26      Works outside Port Moresby will be implemented by DW staff in the
Provincial centers. DW is responsible for regular road and drain maintenance
of all national roads outside the NCDIC. Except for this year, Government
budgetary allocations for road maintenance have generally been adequate as
agreed with the Bank under ongoing Loan agreements for road projects. RMU has
in the past been strengthened under these projects and is capable of carrying
out its maintenance works very well. In adaition to planning, design and
execution by provincial DW staff there will be technical supervision and
monitoring by the central RMU to ensure quality, consistency and timely
completion. Details of the DW organization, staffing and implementation
capacity, are in the project file. About 50 staff-months of engineering
consultants will be provided under the project in order to assist RMU with
Project Supervision. At negotiations, the Government agreed to hire the
supervisory consultants by March 1991.



- 14 -
3.27      The implementation methods to be used will provide employment,
especially for the construction of small, stone-pitched drainage channels
which involve a st!bstantial amount of manual labor. Only for larger drainage
channels, major culverts, and large-volume excavation works will major
construction equipment and vehicles be employed to a significant extent.
3.28      Status of Preparation.  All proposed works have been identified on
the basis of their high priority. NCDIC has completed detailed engineering
and bid documents anl is ready to go to LCB tender for construction of the
main drain. For the smaller drains, relatively simple survey and design work
is presently in progress in DW and will be largely completed before the end of
1990. Tendering of these smaller contracts can subsequently be carried out
quickly. No land acquisition will be needed, since all works are located in
the road right-of-way. Still, execution of the works may lead to the
occasional re-opening of old land compensation disputes. This is the norm for
projects in PNG. The Implementation Schedule is in Annex 6.
3.29      Technical Assistance and Studies.  Two studies would be carried out
under the project. Port Moresby's drainage deficiencies are particularly
serious, and a more comprehensive Storm Water Drainage Master Plan would be
prepared to address short and longer term needs. Also an assessment of the
adequacy and needs of all urban services in Port Moresby would be carried out
under the proposed Port Moresby Urban Services Study, to assist NCDIC to plan
and provide adequate infrastructure and services to cope with future growth
and demand. The Urban Services Study will help the NCDIC to better plan and
prepare for the expansion of urban services such as water supply, sewerage,
waste disposal, etc. throughout Port Moresby. About 80 staff-months of
expatriate and 20 of local consultants would be needed for the two studies.
Terms of reference for the studies have been prepared and reviewed by the Bank
and are included in the project file.
3.30      Costs and Financing.  The total cost of the road drainage and
rehabilitation component is estimated at $11.3 million. The Bank funds would
be expected to support the drainage component through 1991 and into mid-1992.
Additional drainage works ($4.1 million) are to start when the EEC funds
become available in 1992.
C. Small Industry Technical Assistance
3.31      Background.  The incentives for assisting small businesses to
develop are substantial from the GOPNG's viewpoint because it is aware of the
need to absorb growing numbers of new entrants to the labor force every year.
As job opportunities are limited in the civil service and in the mineral
sector, efforts for employment generation will have to be concentrated on
agriculture and private entrepreneurs in services and small industries.
Government has tried to address the major problems facing small business by
(a) building an industrial center in Lae (ADB financed) in order to provide
low cost, modern facilities, (b) negotiating a $17.0 million line of credit
with the European Investment Bank for long-term financing and (c) providing
better business extension services.
3.32      The recurrent problem facing small business persons is that they all
too often lack even simple managerial experience. Although there have been
several initiatives for assisting them, few have had any substantive impact



- 15 -
because they have not been well focussed nor had adequate field linkages for
monitoring and follow-up. While it is recognized that the provision of seed
capital is often necessary for start up, it is the degree to which training
and field follow up work for managerial assistance is provided that often
determines the long term viability of the small business itself. The process
requires close coordination, good communication and documentation in the field
through the provision of an extension type service similar to that of the
agriculture sector.
3.33      Objectives.  The small industry technical assistance component would
have as its primary objective, the strengthening of the Department of Trade
and Industry (DTI) so that it can help entrepreneurs in the construction,
urban services, and the service sector to develop by providing better and
increased business extension services. It would also help to give impetus to
job creation in the area which has to be the future principal employment
generator in PNG.
3.34      Implementation.  In order to provide these extension type services,
GOPNG, with the help of a UNIDO team, established a small Business Development
Corporation (SBDC) in March 1990 within the Department of Trade and Industry.
The main functions of the SBDC will be to:  (a) provide advisory and
administrative service to small businesses; (b) arrange and coordinate
training and skill development programs for small business; (c) advise small
business on the availability of finance and to assist them in obtaining such
finance; (d) promote and coordinate the provision of venture capital to small
business; (e) establish and maintain liaison between associations and groups
representing small business and the government; and (f) recommend to the
Minister of Trade and Industry, appropriate policies for the development of
small business. SBDC will provide services country-wide through its branch
offices which are called Provincial Small Business Associations.
3.35      Continuing shortages of qualified national staff impede the
Government's plans for providing assistance to small business. SBDC's small
core of technical staff will therefore be augmented and trained by the
provision of about 150 staff-months of technical assistance under the project.
Experts in management, finance, marketing and logistics will be hired as well
as small items of materials and equipment for training will also be purchased.
Special emphasis will also be placed on enhancing the role of women in the
development and management of small businesses. The Government agreed at
negotiations to hire the experts required by March 1991.
3.36      In addition, funds will be made available to support the incremental
operating costs of SBDC, particularly with regard to the provision of
extension services in the provinces which will require close and continuous
communications with the provincial branch offices and frequent visits to reach
out to small businesses. Operating costs to be covered will include: staff
travel, utilities, vehicle and office rentals, office supplies and printing
materials, as well as costs for processing of company registration,
preparation of loan applications, and promotional and advertising activities
to make small businesses aware of the availability of these services.



- 16 -
D. Management and Monitoring
3.37      Project implementation and administration will by nature be onerous
given the multisector nature, numerous small components, the need for speed
and also for liaison with several cofinanciers. Strong project implementation
arrangements both at the sector/project level and in DFP will therefore be
necessary. Line agencies will still be responsible for implementing
individual components as budgeted and will be strengthened where necessary to
do so.
3.38      Overall management of the Program of Special Interventions will be
provided by the DFP. The DFP has established a Structural Adjustment
Committee (SAC) which is responsible for the SAL, the ADB program loan and the
program of special interventions. The committee is composed of higher level
staff drawn from the BPNG, the DFP, and the Personnel Management Department;
it will also have a full time project rsnager. Generally, the SAC, through
the project manager, will be responsible for guiding, coordinating, monitoring
and managing the program of special interventions, regardless of funding
source.  The Government agreed at negotiations to retain the SAC for the
duration of the project in order to manage it adequately. DFP has provided
Terms of Reference for both the SAC as a whole and the project manager which
the Bank has reviewed and found to be adequate.  The Government also agreed to
employ a project manager acceptable to the Bank as a condition of loan
effectiveness.
3.39      Monitoring of the performance of the SIP will be done by the SAC,
with periodic assistance from consultants. The purpose would be to gauge the
effect of the project components in meeting overall objectives. %mployment
generation, income levels of housing beneficiaries, mortgage interest rates,
and project component implementation rates will be the main indicators to be
monitored and analyzed.
3.40      In addition, given the difficult economic environment, and the
demands on government officers to manage a growing Public Investment Program
with the same or often a reduced number of staff, it is necessary that
simplified, more efficient project preparation and implementation methods be
devised. It is proposed that as part of the SIP concept, the Government
should use it as a window of opportunity for devising these improved methods.
The project manager, under the leadership of the SAC will, using criteria such
as (i) time savings, (ii) productivity improvement and (iii) savings of
Government staff resources, be responsible for identifying simplified
preparation and implementation procedures for each project component which
will also satisfy the procurement standards of the cofinancers. The goal will
be to ensure that the SIP is completed on schedule. Consultants (mostly
local) will be hired periodically to assist the project manager in carrying
out this task. Terms of reference for them will be prepared periodically by
DFP and agreed with the Bank before commencing any of the brief studies.
3.41      The SIP will also provide an opportunity for DFP to complete three
vital areas of improvement in management and monitoring which were initiated
under an on-going, but soon to be completed Bank-executed, UNDP technical
assistance project (PNG/86/008 SNAPEM II). These include the (a) installation
of the project planning and implementation process (project cycle),
(b) implementation of the program management information system, and



- 17 -
(c) rationalization of information technology usage by the Government. Terms
of reference for these activities have already been prepared and are
a.ceptable to the Bank.
3.42       Funds will be provided under the project for about 100 staff-months
for consulting services for these actions as well as for related training
programs, and the purchase of needed computer hardware and software.
E. Costs and Financing
3.43       The total cost of the project is estimated at $40.0 million,
including taxes and duties.  This estimate is based on the designs available
for housing and drainage works and on the recent costs for consultancy
services and technical assistance in PNG. Physical contingencies averaging
15 percent have been added for civil works. Price contingencies for foreign
costs are 3.6 percent per annum for 1991 and thereafter, and for local costs,
7.0 percent per annum for 1991 and 6.5 percent thereafter. The details of the
costs by component are given in the table below as follows:
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(Kine '000)              (S'OOO)             X
Local  Fvorign  To                       Toal  Foreign
77uEin1 Component
1 Lan~d *ndHousing Development  1,020   1,011   2,031   1,063   1,063   2,116
2. House Construction         7,244  10,866  18,110   7,646  11,819  18,866
3. Institutional Strengthening  8o0   1,784   2,040     819   1,806   2,126
Hou0ing Component Total    8.670  18.611  22,181   8.927  14,178  23.106    61
Drnassn
1.  sTcal Improvments         2,426   4,749   7,175   2,627   4,947   7,474
2. Supervision and Studies      710   1,065   1,776     740   1,109   1,849
Drainage Component Total   8.138   S,814   8.960   8.287   e.068   9.S23    65
Industry
1 Tu:cVnical Assistance         408   1,380   1,783     420   1,438   1,857
2. Operating Costs              121     418    658      127     438     6e0
Inductor Component Total     524   1 _S   2.321      546   1.871   2.417    77
Management and Monitoring       se8   2.044   2.405     876   2.129   2.506    86
Project Cost Total
Base Cost Total             12 591  28 286  85.858  13 116  24 234  87 350    es
Physical contingencies      4              1,351 7I7
Price contingencies         679     928   1,607      803     967   1,570
Total Prolect Cost         138.e0  26.054  38s714  14.229  2e.098  40.327    as
Financing
3.44       The proposed Bank loan of $30.0 million will cover 74 percent of the
total cost of the project. The remainder would be met by the beneficiaries
(13 percent), the participating financial institutions (10 percent), and the
Government (2 percent).  Details are in the following table:



- 18 -
FINANCING PLAN /a
(S '000)
Financing Plan
Benefic.
Component                   Total Costs         IBRD          PFIs      downpaym.nt  OOPNO
Land A Housing Development
1. Plot Development            2,472         1,390           483          818          0
2. House Construction         18,868        10,811         3,537        4,718          0
Subcomponent Total         21,338        12,002   66%  4.001  19X  56334  26X    0    0_
3. Inst'l Strengthening        2,336         2,336  100IX      0   0        0   OX    0    OX
Land A Housing Total       23,e72        14,337   61X  4 001  17X  6 334  231    0    01
Drainse
1. Physical Improvements       9,371         8,434   90%       0   OX       0   OX  937   10X
2. Supervision A Studies       2,003         2,003  1001       0   0       0   OX    0    0%
Drainage Total             11.374        10.437   92X       0 O0         0 O0   937    8X
Industr
1. Technical Assistance        2,032         2,032  100%       0   OX       0   OX    0    OX
2. Operating Costs               560           504   901       0   OX       0   OX  56    2X
Industry Total              2.693         2.637   98%       0   01       0   01   56    2%
Management A Monitoring        2.e9o         2.89O  1OO0       2   ox       0 o0       0    01
Totals                     40.328        30.000   74X  4.001  1OX  65334  131  993   2?
la Includes contingencies.
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not add.
F. Procurement
3.45         Procurement of the project components will be carried out as shown
and summarized in the table below:



- 19 -
Procurement Method
Force
Item                 LCB        Account    Other /a         N.A.      Total
----- $ million ---------------------
Housing                                            2.3           21.4       23.7
(2.3)        (12.0)    (14.3)
Drainage                   2.5          5.5        3.4                      11.4
(2.2)        (5.1)      (3.2)                    (10.5)
Industry                                           2.0            0.6        2.6
(2.0)          (0.5)     (2.5)
Management                                         2.1                       2.1
(2.1)                    (2.1)
Equipment                 0.2                      0.3                       0.3
(0.2)                   (0.3)                     (0.3)
Total                2.7           5.5       10.1           22.0      40.3
(2.4)        (5.1)      (9.9)         (12.5)    (30.0)
/a "Other" includes prudent shopping, direct contracting and the Bank's
consultant selection procedures.
Note: Figures include contingencies and those in parenthesis are the
respective amounts financed by the Bank. They may not add due to
rounding.
3.46      Project civil works contracts will mostly be well below $1.0
million, which is too small to attract foreign competition. A total of $2.5
million of civil works will be awarded using LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank for which the minimum threshold will be $50,000. The Bank has reviewed
the documentation for the largest of these contracts (the Murray-Gabaka
drainage channel in Port Moresby) and found it to be acceptable. The smaller
works are dispersed throughout the country and are not suitable for LCB. They
total $3.4 million and will be carried out under DW and NCDIC supervision by
negotiating contracts of less than $50,000 with small contractors, village and
youth groups using standard labor rates. The force account works ($5.5
million) will be carried out by DW and the provincial Governments in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.47      No civil works contract is expected to exceed the Bank's normal
mandatory review threshold ($1.0 million) for PNG. The Bank will conduct post
reviews for all LCB and other contracts below this threshold. Based on the
current accertable perforrance by DW in handling procurement under other
ongoing Bank projects, this procedure will be adequate. For housing, no
normal procurement transaction is involved in the HRF activities ($12.0
million); the same holds for the operating cost ($0.5 million) portion of the
industry component. However, there are provisions in the HRF guidelines,
which are acceptable to the Bank, for use by the BPNG in deciding which
housing development expenditures are eligible for refinancing. For equipment,



- 20 -
packages expected to range between $50 - $100,000 (totalling $200,00v) will be
procured by LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Also a total of $300,000
worth of equipment will be procured in packages of less than $50,000 by using
local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Finally, although no
equipment pac.age is expected to exceed $100,000, should this occur then
procurement will be through ICB procedures and will be subject to prior review
and approval by the Bank.
3.48      Consultancy services of about 250 staff-months for supervision,
studies, training, and technical assistance (TA) would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Provided
that adequate justification is submitted, several small consultancy contracts
valued at less than $200,000 per contract for monitoring, management, studies,
and accelerating project implementation are expected to be awarded on a sole
source basis to teams led by experts from the UPNG system, and from other
sources. They will total about $2.5 million.
G. Disbursements
3.49      Disbursements from this loan will be made against applications as
follows:
(a) Housing Refinancing Facility: 75 percent of mortgage amounts.
(b)  Drainage Works:  90 percent of total expendit.;res for civil works.
(c)  Incremental Operating Costs:  90 percent cf tctal expenditures for
1991 and 92, and 50 percent thereafter.
(d)  Consultant Services, Supervision, Technical As.&istance and Studies:
100 percent of expenditures.
(e) Equipment: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, tOo percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 85 perceat. of local
expenditures for other items procured locally.
In order to facilitate disbursements, the Government has recently established
a separate Trust Account for each donor. The Bank's Special Account funds,
which will cover both local and foreign expenditures, are to be maintained in
Kina and held in Trust Account No. 08-038 with separate transa.:tion reports
being provided for the SIP. In order to cover all expenditures, baoth local
and foreign, an initial deposit of $3.0 million equivalent will be made by the
Bank into the Special Account, which would represent the estimated disburse-
ments for four months. This amount would be replenished quarterly or when
withdrawals from the Account reach one half of the initial deposit. Only
expenditures above $700,000 could be submitted directly to the Bank for
payment.
3.50      A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 7.  The
schedule differs substantially from the disbursement profile of a standard
infrastructure project. Because of the nature of the project mostly
components in advanced stages of preparation have been selected for inclusion
and it is therefore expected to disburse in three years or less. The Closing
Date of the loan will be December 31, 1993.



- 21 -
3.51      Disbursements for civil works, equipment and materials less than
$100,000 equivalent and all HRF subloans, incremental operating costs, and all
civil works under force account would be made against itemized statements of
expenditure (SOE). Detailed documentation supporting the SOE's would be kept
by the various agencies for review by Bank supervision missions.
Disbursements for all consultant services, technical assistance and training
would be fully documented.
3.52      Retroactive Financing.  Retroactive financing, not to exceed $3.0
million, would be provided for expenditures on civil works, and consultancy
services incurred after July 1, 1990 and before the date of the Loan
Agreement. The procedures followed for such contracts will be consistent with
the arrangements described in paras. 3.46-3.48 and must be fully acceptable to
the Bank.
H. Reporting
3.53      As the executing agency of the project, DFP would keep, or ensure
that DW, NHC, DTI and NCDIC keep records of all procurement documents
(including bids, proposals, and their evaluation and contract awards) and the
official decision on each project element showing accumulated expenditures,
monthly payments and other administrative dat-. BPNG would prepare and submit
quarterly reports on the operations of the HRF to DFP. Through the SAC, the
DFP will prepare consolidated quarterly reports using the above and other
information, in accordance with a format acceptable to the Bank. Supervision
and reporting on the project would focus generally on employment generation,
NHC institutional performance and the sale of serviced plots. The SAC will
also prepare progress reports for other donors, as requested by them.
I. Accounting and Auditing
3.54      The DFP will be responsible for overall project accounting and
auditing. For the refinancing fac5ity, the BPNG will establish the required
accounts and, in accordance with sound accounting practices, maintain records
of all transactions using the facility. These records will be submitted to
DFP. At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that: (a) the DFP would
keep separate accounts for the project; (b) the project accounts, including
documentation for SOEs would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; and (c) the audited reports would be submitted to the
Bank within nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
3.55      In addition, DFP will prepare and furnish to the Bank, within nine
months of the final disbursement from the Bank loan, a completion report on
the execution and initial operation of the project.
J. Bank Supervision Strategy
3.56      This project will require above normal supervision efforts but this
will not be burdensome since the implementation period is short. The focus of
supervision will be in two distinct areas (a) procurement reviews and
(b) analyses of the project's impact especially in the financial sector and
in strengthening institutions. It will require about three missions during
each of the next two fiscal years. Also, it will be important for SAC



- 22 -
personnel to take part fully in all supervision missions and to follow-up on
mission aide memoires.
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
4.1       The environmental aspects of the project have been reviewed and
findings are summarized in a brief report which is in the project file. The
project would not have any adverse impact on the environment; it would improve
on the contrary, living conditions of the vulnerable groups. Major physical
components such as housing sites and drainage, are dispersed over several
provinces and would follow Department of Environment and Conservation (DEC)
design and implementation guidelines standards. Design standards for the
housing component will also incorporate appropriate safeguards for water
disposal.
4.2       The Government's resettlement policies and practices were also
reviewed and are the subject of a separate report in the project file. They
were found to be consistent with Bank guidelines on involuntary resettlement.
There is no resettlement under the project, however the NHC has agreed to
include prov4sion for resettlement in its policy statement. It will
essentially follow national Government policies whenever resettlement should
become an issue in the future. The national policy in this regard is to
incorporate, on a voluntary basis, the existing residents of an area as
beneficiaries of project investments in housing, drainage, etc. rather than
resettling them elsewhere. The adherence by NHC to this policy was agreed at
negotiations.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1       The project would demonstrate the ability of the Government to
respond to rapidly changing economic conditions. New employment opportunities
and increases in urban incomLes would help the Government to maintain the
adjustment process while at the sariie time laying the foundation for progress
on social objectives. Job creation would be substantial (about 6,500 person
years) as large numbers of skilled and unskilled workers will be required at
construction sites, for both housing and drainage, dispersed all over the
country. This represents job opportunities for about 5 percent of the urban
unemployed.
5.2       The housing component would provide about 1,800 middle and lower
income households with affordable housing. Beneficiaries would be drawn from
overcrowded situations, and from among lower and middle income families who
are losing concessional rent accommodations. The component would also support
the application of policies and standards which are essential to an improved
supply response and enhanced private sector involvement, eventually including
that of customary land owners. The drainage component would help to extend
the economic life of the country's costly national roads network. The
industry component will strengthen the SBDC in its attempts to help small



- 23 -
contractors and other entrepreneurs succeed; this is seen as one of the major
steps to future employment growth in PNG.
B. Risks
5.3       The main risk is that project implementation could be slow due to
inadequate institutional and staffing capacity in PNG Government agencies. In
order to alleviate this risk, the Government has agreed to strengthen the DFP,
the DW and the NHC by the provision of technical assistance and consultancy
services. There are necessarily substantial risks involved in the housing
component as it involves marketing a new "product" in the country and the use
of a new scheme to have commercial banks originate, hold and service long-term
mortgages. The key ones are: (a) the introduction of the HRF may be slow and
(b) commercial banks may be reluctant to provide housing mortgages.
5.4       The project has been structured in such a way as to minimize the
risks to all parties concerned. BPNG will obtain technical assistance to
establish and initially operate the HRF and onlending will be at the discount
rate. NHC will pre-sell its properties before engaging in extensive
construction. Much of the use of the HRF is predicated on the sale of
properties that have been under planning, marketing and development for a long
period of time. The commercial banks will hold the lending risk for the
mortgages rather than the government. The fact that house and plot buyers
will be allowed to use their accumulated savings in the Provident (pension)
funds for downpayments and that payroll deductions will be used for mortgage
payments should help mitigate the reluctance of commercial banks to lend.
5.5       There are also other more routine risks which have been addressed
during project design. For drainage, old land compensation disputes do
present some risk but these may be restricted to small parts of the road
reserve. For housing, rigid bureaucratic procedures for the issuing of
titles, sub-division leases etc. are more likely to be a source of delay sincc
virtually all of the land for housing has been acquired. The Department of
Lands (DLPP) has already agreed to ameliorate its procedures for the issuance
of leases for project house sites. Finally, the construction industry is weak
but this has been factored into the determination of the overall project
implementation rate.
C. Justification
5.6       No formal economic rate of return has been calculated for the entire
project but it is estimated to be about 35 percent. For housing, rent levels
for urban accommodations in PNG are very high. When comparable imputed rents
are used to determine project benefit values, high economic rates of return on
the minimum standard solutions offered in this project are indicated. Based
on current costs and recent rent levels, the economic rate of return on a
typical plot/house combinations would be about 35 percent (see detailed tables
in the project file). The cost stream includes land value, civil works, house
construction, physical contingencies and maintenance. Similarly, high rates
of return would be expected for drainage since such road maintenance type
investments are typically viable in PNG.



- 24 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       At negotiations the Government agreed on:
(a) a timetable for finalizing the NHC policy statement (para. 3.13).
(b) a timetable for the strengthening of NHC (para. 3.20);
(c) the hiring of supervisory consultants for the drainage component
(para. 3.26);
(d) the hiring of experts for the SBDC (para. 3.35);
(e) retaining the structural adjustment committee for the duration of
the project (para. 3.38);
(f) project accounting and annual auditing (para. 3.54);
(g) NHC adherence to national policies on the environment and on
resettlement (para. 4.2).
6.2       Prior to effectiveness, (a) a subsidiary agreement would have to be
signed by BPNG (para. 3.10); (b) an expert familiar with HRF type operations
would be hired (para. 3.12); and (c) the project manager would be hired (para.
3.38).
6.3       Prior to disbursements from the HRF, the BPNG and each PFI will need
to sign a participating agreement (para. 3.10).
6.4       With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for a loan of $30.0 million for twenty years, including a grace
period of five years at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The
Borrower would be the Independent State of Papua New Guinea.



-  25  -                        ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
IIOUSlNG AND TIIE URBAN SECTOR
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
UL.bati GrOwtLh
1.       W1hile 1990 Census data is not yet available, PNG's total population
is estimitaLed to be 3.8 million for 1990, of whichi 15 percent (550,000) is
estimated to be urban. For the year 2000, this proportion is expected to rise
to nearly 800,000, or 17 percent of a total population of 4.7 million.  A
recentt report (NTF) 1I projects total national household growth as rising
fromii 641,600 in 1980 to over one million in 2000, of wlhich urban households
will account for a rise of some 57,000 to over 140,000, a magnitude of 2.5.
This represents an urban population growth rate of about 4 percent per annum,
wliichi is approximately double that of rural areas.  The rapid urban growth is
due to in-migratLion, and to a rate of natural increase exceeding the natural
average, there being a higher p)roportion of females of clhild-bearing age in
urban areas.  The NTF report estimates that demand for urban housing based on
population growth and migrationi alone will amount to over 83,000 units for the
period 1980-2000, and concludes thiat the need to increase the supply of
Iousinig is clear enough to warrant new policy and strategic initiatives.
Em:pjiloyimienit anid Inicoi_mes
2.        Employment and income (lata in PNG is at best represented by rougl
estimates.  Wage employment in thie formal sector covers about 12 percent of
Lhe population nationally (about 45 percenit in Port Moresby), with an
additionial 35 percent enigaged in informal commercial activities, mainly cash
crop production.  The remainder are either engaged in subsistence activities
or are unemployed.2/  Because of shrinking formal employment opporttnities
in the period 1980-84 and a growing labor force (estimated at over 2.6 percent
per year), unemlployment is estimated to have increased since 1980.  An urban
unemployment rate hIlgher thatn the overall national rate is thouglht to be
partly due to in-miiigrationi induced by titore attractive urban wages whiicl have
b3een generated by PNG's wage indexinig system.
3.        Wages are higlh comp)ared to othier Soutlh Pacific nations, both in
absolute terms, and in relation to the skills and productivity of the labor
force. Since 1972, botlh urban and rural wage rates have generally kept ahead
of the Conswumet Price Index.  High wages are said to have been a major
I/   National Task Force on Shielter Policy and Planning, Septemiiber, 1989.
2/   Papjua New Guinea:  Opportuntities antd Challeniges for Accelerated
Development (IBRD Report No. 7707-rNG).



-  26  -                         ANNEX 1
Page 2
constrainit on private investment,3/ and the governlnenit has recently taken
steps to introduce flexibility, recogniizing that the wage indexing system
LequiLeS revisioni.
'4.        The distiibutioni of urbaan household incomle ranges in PNG can at best
be estimat.ed onily vety roughly.  ln the absence of broad-based data, the UNDP-
liLianced feasibility study for the Urban Settlemenits Planning Project (USPP)
uLnltleltook a sample survey limited to wage earners in the expected target
bleneliciary pool. In this pool, yearly household incomes of K 1,500 to K
15,000 weLe foundl, with medianis between K 2,700 anid K 5,700, depending on
locality.  Accotditig to the USPP study, this range is considered by Government
Lo embrace the low and nmihddle inicome spectrums.  The survey inedicates
vaiiatiuon by locality, with tle 80th percentile slhowing an income of K 12,000
in PoLt tloresby, K 9,000 iti Mt. Ilagen, and K 5-6,000 in Lae and Wewak.  This
is a trunicated sample, however, and is useful only as a guide to the selected
lange. Other data (1988 Taxpayer samiple and 1989 Governmenit payroll data)
4/ cani be inteLr)reted to indicate a 1990 national urban medeian income at
arounid K 6,000 witl, the 80th percentile at roughly K 9,000 to K 10,000. In
1989, the lowest Governmienit salaries averaged arourid K 2,900 per year
(relresenting the lowest 5 percent on the payroll).  Excluding expatriate
salaiies, the mlediani Goverimienit salary would, according to the '89 Government
payroll data, be about K 5,200.  If, as is believed by Government, private
sector pay scales are about 20 percent higher than Government's, a weighted
average urban median income for 1990 would be about K 6,200.  The informal
sector is not expected to be well-represented in tile samples from which this
estimate is derived.  However, the estimate is the best available for those
folmally employed in ttle public anid private sectors, which is the part of tlle
popullatill imost sevetely affected by tihe stabilizatioin program.
Ifq ; lig in tie Econolity
5.         Construction generates a relatively low 3-4 percent slhare of GDP,
whiclh is duominated by agriculture and mining (roughly a 50 percent share in
1988 ).5/  Separate data on housing is not available.  Housing construction
takes pt ace largely through informal employmenit, anid with less than 13 percent
of tLie labor force in tormal wage employnient (of wlichl a third is public
sectoi), it is not possible to estimate housing's current contribution to
employment.  Fixed investment as a share of GDP was 1.2 percent for
conisLtrLutoi  in 1988--abouL 8 pelcent of the total private fixed
itivestmell.6/  IIUusillg costs duri.ng the past decade have risen solnewlhat less
Lliai l lie CPI.
3/   iB'RD Report. lio. 7121-114G.
/1/  LVepal t.meiLt O£ Finanice and  Al1anminig.
5/   IBRD RepoLt Ik. 7707-PUIG, fable 1.1.
6/   IBlRD Report ibo. 8518-PUG, Table 1.3.



-  27  -                         ANNEX 1
Page 3
HlousiLtg in lihe Flinaiclal Sector
6.         Comiumercial baanks have in the past heavily oriented their lending
towatrds comumierce, trade and other business and these sectors have represented
about 48 p)ercent of thleir portfolio.  In conLrast, hligher priority activities,
Lromti a development pointL of view, suclh as agriculture, inidustry and building
cottstructionl have averaged only about 21, 11 andl 8 percent, respectively, of
the commitercial banks' credit.  ln recent years a number of special facilities
lhave been introduced by the Governmllent and by the central bank to promote
development leniding by conunerclal baniks in these prioriLy sectors.  In the
housiing sector, thte Governtmllenit introduced the liome Loan Guaranitee Scheme
(IILGS) anid the thomiie Loan Interest Subsidly Scliemiie (HLISS).  Under the HLGS, the
Goverinmentt guarantees to baanks 80 percent of the outstanding balance in case
of default by Lhe borrowers.  By tLle ened of 1989 about K 9.0 million had been
commuiiitt ed.  The HLISS provides an interest subsidy to the borrower.  The
sclhemiie has the effect of either reducing periodic payments or of increasing
thme loan amtiounit whichi can be afforded by borrowers.  Under the HLISS less than
K 2.0 million hiad beenl coIiunitted by the end of 1989. Government has virtually
suspended these programs, and they would be explicirly excluded from
application to tLhe Banik-financed SIP project.  For finaincial data on HLGS and
IILISS, see Annex 2.
7.         The financial structure of the coimmercial banking sector is
characterized by deposits of less thani e ne year, supporting short-term loalis
anid liqjuid assets.  The shortage of lonig-termi deposits is seen as a major
factor limiting amortization p)eriods, and henice the effectiveness and
affordability for low- to middle-inicome borrowers.  The comunercial banks
atAiribuLe their lack of term  lenidinig for priority sectors to the volatility of
tlheir resour(ces antd their shorLt maturity, and concern has been expressed that
lengthteniing of lenidinig mat urities will create an unacceptable mislmiatch of
asset antd liability maturities.  The proposed llousing Refinance Facility seeks
to address thlis corncern.
8.         lotsing Finanice.  lhome ownerslhip is a relatively niew trenid in PNG,
andl finanicing facilities are not broadly developed.  Leniding for housing
purp)oses is deone by the conumercial baanks, savings anid loan societies, and
em)ployers seeking to extricate themselves from the existing system of
employer-provided housing.  Comnnercial baank leiditing for housiing shiows a rising
trenid over the past decade withl loanis averaging arounid K 10,000-14,000.  Time
savings and loan companies make limited loans for housing purposes under thie
caLegory of p)ersonal loanis, anti, influenced by Governmenlt's National Hlme
Ownershlip) Schemiie (NIIOS), have during the past two years, begun to make
moitgage-type loans.  Legislation to permit Public Officer's Superannuation
Fund (POSF) involvemiietnt in housing has been approved, andl is sclheduled to be
effective froml January 1991.  Finanicitng of employer lhousing sclhemties are made
thlrough arranigemimenits with comiunercial banks, some of wlhiclh are more active and
successful at this acti4ity  thlanl otLlers.  A sclheme for a mortgage finance
comilpaniy has beent approved by GoveLmllenti since appraisal, with CDC funiding, and
deLails concernitig its planined operations are not known.  However, it is
expected to iunction muclh as similar institutions do in othler cou.1tries, anid
will therefoLe serve primarily the midldle- tu highi-iincoimie brackets.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Housing Demand and Supply
9.        Housing Stock.  There is no recent data on the current status of
housing stock in PNG, but it can be characterized as being generally of high
standard but of short supply. Rural and some urban housing is informal-
traditional, and urban housing is largely formal. One report put the number
of informal dwellings in Port Moresby at 932 in 1980, housing a population of
some 6000 persons, or 5 percent of the city's population at the time. Another
survey found 10,400 persons in such settlements in 1983, but the soundness of
these studies is questioned. An estimate of 1200 to 1500 informal units in
Port Moresby in 1983 might be reasonable, housing roughly 8,000-10,000 people.
The informal settlement population of Lae is estimated to be between 7,000 and
15,000 people (1987), or roughly 9 percent to 16 percent of the population.
Statistics on provision of services are not available. Formal developments
are served by piped water and electricity. Informal urban settlements may be
served by standpipes or individual water connections, and may or may not have
electricity. With regard to sanitary facilities, individual septic systems
prevail, including pit latrines and collection systems, with some reticulated
systems in Port Moresby and Lae.
10.       Demand.  A study of accumulated unmet demand for low and medium cost
urban. housing plots was made in 1983, based on a study of existing
settlements. These figures have been adopted by NHC in preparing current
projects, and total 13,000 for five urban centers (Pt. Moresby 14 percent, Lae
46 percent, Mt. Hagen 5 percent, Madang 13 percent, and Wewak 22 percent). The
former Department of Housing (DOH) estimated growth in demand for 1984-90
based on population trends and characteristics revealed in the 1980 Census,
for a total additional demand of 15,800. It has further been estimated that
need satisfied by the public sector during the period 1984-87 totalled some
2,400 (the private sector contribution is known to have been very small).
Taking the above three sets of figures into account, the net outstanding need
in 1990 totals 26,400, distributed as follows: Pt. Moresby 29 percent, Lae 37
percent, Mt. Hagen 6 percent, Madang 11 percent, and Wewak 17 percent). This
figure is thought to be conservative since it does not take into account unmet
demand represented by situations where several families are forced to share
single units involuntarily. A 1987 survey of settlement populations indicated
a high percentage of households with members wishing to form new households
(68 percent in Port Moresby, and 45 percent in Lae and Mount Hagen; Madang and
Wewak were lower, with 15 percent and 9 percent respectively).
11.       Supply.  Residential land development for urban lower to middle
income households has been dominated by the public sector through DOH and the
Housing Commission (HC), both of which were recently absorbed by the new
National Housing Corporation (NHC). They also designed, built, and managed
housing units for rent to government employees at below market rents.   Many
have been sold mostly through the Sale of Government Housing Scheme (SOGH)
designed to reduce the burden on the government of house provision and
management. Access to land, whether government-owned or customary, is
virtually under the control of Government because of complex and time-
consuming leasing and transfer procedures, which makes it somewhat easier for
the public sector institutions to act as developer. This and PSG's tradition
of employer-provided housing, has contributed substantially to the absence of
a private sector market producing plots and housing appropriate to demand in



-  29  -                        ANNEX l
Page 5
the lower- to middle-income ranges. Private sector development is aimed
exclusively at the highest incomes--particularly the lucrative expatriate
rental market, although there are now some signs of movement towards lower
income ranges. In addition, the new trend by employers to assist their
employees in home ownership, as opposed to outright provision of housing, is
expected to bring the private sector more actively into housing development.
12.       Housing products affordable to a broad range of citizens have not
yet been marketed in an effective manner, due in part to the absence of
affordable plots and long-term finance. The standard DOH/HC product (40 m2
house on 450 n2) costs over K 25,000 in 1990, and is affordable to households
with incomes around K 10,000 per year at market lending terms amortized over
17 years (a term not yet available). The minimum plot size has recently been
reduced from 450 i2 to 150 m2.  The above-mentioned 40 n2 house with reduced
finishes on the smaller lot size would lower the overall price to about K
16,000, and be affordable to families with incomes near K 6,000, around the
median wage income in Port Moresby. Further reducing superstructure standard
and/or finish, possibly introducing an expandable unit for a total cost of K
6,000 would reach households with incomes below K 3,000 at market rates.
Lower cost structures have been developed and tested over the years, but never
in a free-market environment. It is anticipated that the lower plot size
together with cheaper house types will tap a significant demand pool.
Key Sector Issues
13.       Key sector issues include:
(a) limited availability of mortgage finance;
(b) land tenure constraints due to cumbersome allocation procedures and
undeveloped customary land mobilization system;
(c) incomplete sector policy formulation and unclear sector
responsibilities for public and private sectors;
(d)  ingrained tradition of concessional housing provision by employers
and lack of homeownership tradition and extensive government
ownership of housing;
(e) inappropriate physical standards and affordability concepts.
In recent years, and prior to Bank involvement, Government has taken steps to
address these issues. Efforts have been sound and have met with varying
degrees of success, most recently during preparation of the USPP project.
Innovative approaches remain to be tested in the areas of reduced standards,
full cost recovery, customary land mobilization, and private sector mortgage
lending.



-  30  -                        ANNEX 1
Page 6
Background to Sector Policy Development
14.       Prior to the drafting of the National Task Force on Shelter Policy
and Planning (NTF) Report of September, 1989, PNG housing policy was based on
decisions of the National Executive Council of 1986, encouraging home
ownership and self-reliance in housing, with a short term aim of creating a
housing market accessible to ordinary citizens. The role of the government
was described as being limited to that of facilitator, limiting itself to
activities which the private sector cannot undertake or which will encourage
private sector and individual enterprise and initiative. This is within the
context of the policies for the previous 13 years, during which housing policy
was shaped by a National Development Strategy (NDS) identifying rural growth
as the main focus of development.7/
15.       In the face of continuing urban growth, Government has refined
policies and initiated programs, within the context of limited resources for
urban development, because of its concern for rural needs and the fear of
further stimulating urban growth. This has resulted in formulating an
approach based on self-reliance and the upgrading of existing settlements, as
expressed in the Government's 1973 White Paper on Self-help Housing.
Nevertheless, Government found it difficult to abandon its traditional role as
provider of housing to its employees, with subsidized rentals and other
subsidy schemes. The revision of these schemes was recommended in a
Government Committee report in 1977 (Morgan Report), and resulted in a program
to sell government housing stock. Under the Morgan Scheme, Government
designated certain towns as "sales" areas (the top 25-30 towns with regard to
population). Houses were sold well below market value and because of abuses
in allocation and pricing, the Morgan Scheme was suspended. Accounting for
Government-owned houses is imprecise, but it is estimated that over 3,000
units remain under Government ownership. However, most of these are said to
be outside of urban areas and built for staff housing in remote areas; they
may, therefore, not be readily saleable.
16.       By 1981, Government had initiated other schemes, including the
provision of serviced land and a homeownership scheme (NHOS) supported by
interest rate subsidies (HLISS) and the loan guarantee scheme (HLGS).  In 1986
a policy decision instructed all statutory bodies to assist their staff in
entering into home ownership. At the same time, Sale of Government Housing
Scheme (SOGH) was restarted with reduced discounts.
17.       Also in 1986, scarce reserves of land and limited finance made it
clear that strategies to overcome two underlying problems in the sector were
needed: a) an appropriate strategy for mobilizing customary land for
development, and b) implementation of projects providing affordable serviced
urban land on the basis of full cost recovery. In order to initiate action in
these areas, the former Department of Housing (DOH) obtained a UNDP grant to
7/   COWI Report.



-  31  -                        ANNEX l
Page 7
contract with COWI Consult (Denmark) to prepare a pilot project for external
financing, called the Urban Settlements Planning Project (USPP).8/
18.       The most recent effort to draft new policy, the NTF Report, was
undertaken in 1989. It represents an ambitious effort to develop and
institutionalize an integrated approach to PNG's housing sector problems.
However, since the report does not state concise sector objectives and
operational strategy, further refinement of the NTF work is required and will
be supported under the project.
Government Strategy
19.       GOPNG policy statements have for several years indicated an
awareness of sound concepts for the housing sector, including elimination of
subsidies, adoption of affordable and appropriate standards, withdrawal of
government from rental housing, encouraging housing finance from
nongovernmental sources, improving the land mobilization system, and, most
recently, limiting government's role to that of facilitator. Under the SIP
request, GOPNG has made housing a priority for both economic and social
reasons, particularly as budget problems have forced Government to redouble
its unpopular efforts to abandon the tradition of supplying houses to
employees at concessional rents.
II. SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
A. Background
20.       PNG has an established history of government and other employer
involvement in housing, and various institutiorial arrangements for the sector
have been tried. This may be due largely to the inability or reluctance of
the private sector--notably the financial sector--to enter the market for low
income housing. It may also be partly due to complex structural impediments
and distortions in the market. Mounting problems with the provision of
housing for the great majority of citizens resulted in early 1990 in further
changes designed to reduce Government's involvement and put housing production
on a commercial enterprise basis. In March 1990 the Housing Commission (HC)
which had been established in 1967, was closed down. During its life it had
produced houses for government and other institutions, and for rental to
individuals. Although rents were heavily subsidized, the Commission was
plagued by growing defaults. As a step towards building more effective sector
institutions--a recommendation of NTF--The National Housing Corporation (NHC)
was created in March and the Housing Commission was eliminated. Also, the
Department of Housing (DOH) was virtually closed and, except for a small
ministerial secretariat, its staff absorbed by the new NHC.
8/   This program is currently being referred to by NHC as the Urban Housing
Infrastructure Program (UHIP).



-  32  -                       ANNEX 1
Page 8
B. National Housing Corporation
21.       NHC has been given a wide range of responsibilities, which include
developing land for human settlements and carrying out research in the housing
sector. In addition, sector wide functions such as, education, and policy
development, which were formerly the province of DOH and HC, have been passed
to NHC. As such it is the most important agency in the sector and is the
subject of a separate analysis in Annex 4.
Operational Policy
22.       NHC's plan is to concentrate on producing new serviced sites on both
customary and alienated land while allowing the plot purchaser to determine
how to construct his own structure and sanitary facilities. NHC intends to
help these latter activities with standard designs, kits and lists of capable
contractors. Where sufficient demand exists, NHC may do on-plot construction
in an economic manner.
23.       NHC's operating plan is to mobilize land--both alienated and from
customary land owners--and then design and presell subdivisions before
beginning construction. Given the acute shortage of housing that affects all
but the most affluent segments of the population in Port Moresby and some
other cities, and the scarcity of usable land, NHC is developing some multi-
unit accommodations such as hostels for single workers, condominiums
apartments, and townhouses. As is the case with serviced sites, NHC is
building for sale to individuals or companies and will presell before it
develops and constructs properties. In the future, NHC's current rental, and
eventually its mortgage servicing, activities will wind down and end entirely
as the sale of its own and government's rental properties is completed. This
is an appropriate way to proceed as NHC's future financial solvency is heavily
denpndent upon the rapid (and profitable) turnover of newly developed
properties. NHC has prepared an Operational Policy Statement with Bank
assistance, which is in the project file. The Statement details NHC's sector
objectives and its target financial performance (see Annex 5).
Institutional Strengthening
24.                 Discussions with NHC's management identified a number of
areas where NHC will require technical assistance under the project. These
include: (i) further strengthening corporate strategic and financial
planning; (ii) developing techniques to mobilize customary land; and (iii)
upgrading computing hardware and software capabilities. The major concern is
to transform NHC's organizational culture into a market-oriented one. Details
on the institutional strengthening are in Annex 4.
C. Office of Minister of Housing
25.       The closing of the Department of Housing left in place a minister
and four staff, with an office in the NHC building, whose role is to provide
political guidance and support to government and sector institutions and
receive recommendations on policy issues. Clarification of the NTF
recommendations is needed to rationalize any potential for overlap of policy



-  33  -                       ANNEX 1
Page 9
roles between NHC and the Minister of Housing. Project Technical Assistance
will support such work.
D. Department of Lands and Physical Planning
26.       Department of Lands and Physical Planning (DLPP).  DLPP has the
following responsibilities:
(a) the acquisition, transfer and disposal of land;
(b) the provision of survey, mapping, and valuation services;
(c) the maintenance of land title registration;
(d) the formulation and implementation of policy in the areas of:
(i) land use planning and physical infrastructure needs for urban
and rural populations; and
(ii) urbanization and urban resettlement.
(e) to supervise and prepare physical plans and exercise planning
control;
(f) to administer the provisions of Town Planning; and
(g) to provide services to the Land Board, Surveyor's Board, Valuer's
Registration Board, Town Planning Board, and other standing and ad
hoc committees relating to the functions of the department.
DLPP is primarily responsible for dealings which affect customary l&nd and
plays an important role as manager of the registration and leasing process.
The Minister must approve all leases. Land registration is based on the
Torrens title system.  DLPP allocates al- nated land and reviews subdivision
planning for approval.
27.       The Physical Planning Division (PPD) of the DLPP drafts physical
planning policy, prepares zoning proposals, and comments on development
proposals and planning applications. The context within which the Physical
Planning Division operates in PNG adds importance to physical planning for
development. Most of the land available for urban development is alienated
land which is either directly owned by the government or controlled by it
through the leasehold system. Even without the Town Planning Act this gives
the government significant control over the use of land. Under the Town
Planning Act, the Town Planning Board has the power to decide how government
land can be used and grants final planning approvals. The latter role is being
decentralized, with greater powers going to the provincial governments. For
land not yet subject to a lease, the Land Board has the power to decide, under
the Land Act, to whom the land is to be leased, or who, in the case of a
Government agency, is to be allowed to occupy it. This decision is related to
the Town Planning Board decision and the two boards need to act in close
consultation. Land use and preliminary development plans are judged for
appropriateness by the boards in arriving at allocation decisions.



-  34  -                        ANNEX 1
Page 10
28.       The process of allocating alienated land for development is highly
inefficient and unpredictable; approvals can take as long as five years. The
long delays serve to leave proposed allocations open to challenge by
interested parties. Cases are cited where land has been developed under
official provisional leases but has been later reallocated to the benefit of a
newcomer able to manipulate the process to his advantage. While the
allocation of alienated land is slow and risky for the developer, customary
land owners are beginning to seek ways to more directly formalize agreements
with regard to the uses of their lands in order to benefit from development.
It is argued that if the customary owners succeed in doing so, and Government
does not streamline and rationalize its land allocation process, customary
holdings may emerge as the preferred source of land for housing development.
E. Provincial and Municipal Government
29.       Although currently gaining more powers under a decentralization
plan, local governments have only preliminary review and approval powers for
planning purposes. Some provinces, however, make strong physical planning
initiatives, and have competent physical planning offices. Maintenance
responsibilities fall to local governments, except in the case of national
roads.
F. Bank of Papua New Guinea
30.       The Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) is PNG's Central Bank and
supervises the financial sector. Under the Central Banking Act and the
Financial Institutions Act, BPNG is given broad powers to regulate the
commercial banks and other financial institutions such as the finance
companies and the merchant banks. The savings and loan associations are
supervised by the Registrar of Associations, usually a staff member of the
BPNG. The financial system in PNG operates in an environment that is
virtually free of controls, and the regulatory authorities have kept their
intervention to a minimum. Notwithstanding the considerable legal powers
available to BPNG to supervise banks and other financial institutions, it has
so far not intervened actively. The central bank is aware, however, that the
prudential supervision is currently limited and should be more comprehensive.
It is expected that in the near future monitoring of banks and savings and
loan society operations, from a prudential point of view, will become a more
active function of BPNG (see Annex 2 for detailed information on BPNG and the
financial sector).
G. Commercial Banks
31.       Participation in the proposed Housing Refinance Facility is open to
eligible commercial banks or financial institutions. Three of the five
commercial banks expressed strong interest in participating in the scheme and
were appraised by the Bank mission. These are Westpac Bank-PNG Ltd.
(Westpac); Australia-New Zealand Banking Group PNG Ltd. (ANZ); and Bank of
South Pacific Ltd. (BSP). Under the Project, these banks are referred to as
Participating Financial Institutions (PFI). It is expected that PNGBC and
perhaps other financial institutions, including a new Mortgage Finance Company
being set up by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) may in due



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 11
course participate, if found eligible. Nevertheless, the three participating
banks hold about 50 percent of all assets in the commercial banking system of
PNG and are associated with prominent international banks. The financial
structure of the participating banks is characterized by relatively short-term
deposits (less than one year), supporting short-term loans and liquid assets.
The three eligible PFIs are all fairly similar in their organizational
structure, reflecting the similarities in their operations.
32.       Total assets of the three banks have grown at an average annual rate
of about 13 percent over the past 4 to 5 years. Some slowing down in the rate
of growth occurred in 1989 and an even greater decrease is expected in 1990,
as a result of the closing of the Bougainville mine and the general decrease
in economic activity in PNG. Nevertheless, over the past years the rate of
growth has been healthy, but not high, reflecting the conservative approach to
lending of the parent banks. The ownership, organizations and staffing,
operations and financial structure and performance of these banks are analyzed
and described in Annex 2.
H. Construction Industry
33.       The construction industry la reasonably developed compared to the
smaller neighboring countries. There are many design firms, and one new firm
which specializes in providing lower-cost housing program assistance to
employers, including design, finance, and management. They have assisted
ELCOM and PTC in setting up their successful employee housing schemes. PTC
has had a policy of using only local small contractors for building, without
encountering problems. Nonetheless, as in neighboring countries, small local
contractors are weak in areas such as cost estimating, tendering, and
management. The SIP Industry component will support strengthening activities
for this group, among others. There are many small contractors who can handle
the construction of a limited number of houses at a time. This is appropriate
for the program envisioned by NHC, where individual plot owners would arrange
for their own house construction. There are at least 14 manufacturers of pre-
fabricated and portable structures in PNG. Many cater to community and
industrial needs, but at least half produce and market housing kits for low-
to middle-income housing. Ex-factory prices are very attractive, but
transport and erection costs--including high allowances for losses--undermines
affordability for schemes where economy of scale and good management and
supervision are absent.
I. Other Sector Institutions
34.       A  Nongovernmental Organization active in PNG is Habitat for
Humanity (HH), an American church agency that provides very low-cost permanent
housing tc low-income families. Serviced land is given to HH by government
and HH assists the beneficiary to build a house according to HH design, with
self-help. Construction costs are considerably lower than those of NHC and
other houses.



-  36  -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
Financial Sector and Participating Banks
The Financial Sector Setting
1.        General.  The financial system in PNG comprises the central bank
(Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG)), five commercial banks 1/ the Government's
Agriculture Bank, 115 small savings and loan societies (of which only 33 are
active), 3 merchant banks and 6 finance companies and investment corporations.
In addition, there are two large superannuation funds and four export
commodity stabilization funds and a number of insurance companies, which are
important sources of savings mobilization.
2.        The Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) is PNG's Central Bank and
supervises the financial sector. Under the Central Banking Act and the
Financial Institutions Act, BPNG is given broad powers to regulate the
commercial banks and other financial institutions such as the finance
companies and the merchdnt banks. The savings and loan associations are
supervised by the Registrar of Associations, usually a staff member of the
BPNG. The financial system in PNG operates in an environment that is
virtually free of controls, and the regulatory authorities have kept their
intervention to a minimum. Notwithstanding the considerable legal powers
available to BPNG to supervise banks and other financial institutions, it has
so far not intervened actively. The central bank is aware, however, that the
prudential supervision is currently limited and should be more comprehensive.
It is expected that in the near future monitoring of bank and savings and loan
society operations, from a prudential point of view, will become a more active
function of BPNG.
3.        Commercial Banks. m In spite of the apparently diversified financial
system, the commercial banks dominate the system accounting for about 76
percent of all assets (excluding BPNG). While the commercial banks have
become locally incorporated since independence from Australia in 1975, they
maintain their traditional associations with Australian interests and their
orientation towards the servicing of the modern sector of the economy. The
assets and liabilities of the largest Australian bank were transferred to the
government-owned PNG Banking Corporation (PNGBC), which is the largest bank in
PNC. All other commercial banks are subsidiaries of foreign banks and all
have Australian or New Zealand parent institutions with the exception of the
Indosuez-Niugini Bank. More recently however, several locally-owned financial
institutions have been established. Some are closely associated with
commercial banks while others have been set up by the Government (e.g.
Agriculture Bank and an investment corporation). Of these, the finance
companies and merchant banks have been growing most rapidly, now comprising
I/   Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation (PNGBC), Westpac, Australia-New
Zealand Bank (ANZ), Bank of South Pacific and Indosuez-Niugini Bank.



-  37  -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2
about 10 percent of the total assets of the financial system (excluding BPNG).
Finance companies and merchant bank's main activitiei are in lease and hire
purchase financing, and in equity and real estate holdings and competition
with commercial bank lending activities is very limited. Savings and loan
societies, on the other hand, hold only a small portion of the assets of the
financial system (about 5 percent) and their growth and operations have been
constrained by poor management, and lack of adequate loan policies and
proc.dures, which in several cases has resulted in direct intervention in some
of these institutions by BPNG. The BPNG recently authorized the establishment
of a mortgage finance company with Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
equity capital. With the exception of some short-term borrowing by commercial
banks, there is little direct external borrowing by financial institutions in
PNG. Commercial banks and most other financial institutions derive their
resources almost exclusively from the domestic private sector.
4.        Policy.  The principal laws governing the financial system in PNG
are the Central Banking Act and the Financial Institutions Act, which give the
central bank broad powers to regulate the commercial banks and other financial
institutions such as the finance companies and the merchant banks. The
savings and loan associations, are governed by the Savings and Loan
Association Act and fall under the purview of the Registrar of Associations,
who is usually a staff of the central bank. The other institutions including
insurance companies, stabilization funds, etc. are subject to their individual
legislation and governed by independent boards.
5.        The financial system in PNG operates in an environment that is
virtually free of controls, and the regulatory authorities have kept their
intervention to a minimum. Notwithstanding the considerable legal powers
available to the central bank to supervise banks and other financial
institutions, up to now it has not done so actively. Prudential supervision
of commercial banks is limited to monitoring three variables: equity ratio
(capital to deposits), liquidity ratio (liquid assets including Government
securities with less than 3 year maturity to deposits and other liabilities)
and free capital (capital exceeding fixed assets and investments). The
Central Bank is aware that more comprehensive prudential controls are needed,
particularly with respect to off-balance she t items, levels of allowable
exposure to single individuals or related groups, and capital adequacy
criteria, based on the Basle Agreement. Recently the central bank, with IMF
assistance, set up a Banking Supervision Division within the Economics
Department. In the near future it is expected that monitoring of bank and
savings and loan society operations, from a prudential point of view, will
become an active function of the central bank.
6.        Interest Rates.  The central bank has relied in the past on interest
rate regulations, minimum liquidity requirements, general credit guidelines
and moral suasion to influence the banking system. It has done little to
influence the other financial intermediaries. Commercial bank interest rates
were traditionally regulated by BPNG, by establishing minimum rates for
deposits and maximum rates for lending. Such rates were occasionally adjusted
in line with international developments. In 1984 all interest rates were
deregulated except for the minimum rate on pass book savings accounts, which
were set at 6 percent. In 1985, this rate was also deregulated. Deregulation
of interest rates has helped to foster competition among banks. Although



-  38  -                            ANNEX 2
Page 3
commercial banks differ substantially in size, presently no individual bank
can claim leadership in rate setting, and while influenced primarily by
movements in international rates due to the openness of the economy,
commercial bank's interest rates are now more sensitive than in the past to
BPNG's discount rate and to the overall liquidity of the financial system.
Moreover, spreads have declined significantly: from 6.7 per cent in 1982 and
5.2 percent in 1984 to about 3 percent in the last few years. Presently, the
central bank relies on changes in the rates on its discount and lender-of-
last-resort (LLR) facilities and moral suasion to influence interests rate
developments. While in the past the flexibility of these instruments has been
hampered by political resistance to upward movements (causing adjustments in
the discount rate to lag somewhat behind market developments) more recently
the discount rate has been pegged to the Government's 182-day Treasury Bill
rate (Table 1), which has followed changes in market conditions.
Table 1:  INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE, 1983-89
(As of End-Period)
(Percent per annum)
1987       1988                       1989
March       June        Sept.
Commercial Banks
Deposit Rates
Passbook Savings                       3.0-7.0    3.6-7.0      3.5-7.0    3.6-7.0      3.6-7.0
Term deposits under K 100,000
3-12 months                          7.3-8.8  7.2S-9.26   7.26-9.26   7.25-9.6    7.26-9.6
12 months and over                   6.0-8.6   7.76-9.6      7.5-9.6   7.76-9.5    7.76-9.5
Term deposits of K 100,000 and over
3 months and less                    8.0-9.0   7.6-9.75    8.0-10.6    8.0-9.0       8.0-9.6
3-12 months                          8.0-9.6  8.0-10.26   8.6-10.26   8.0-10.0   8.0-10.75
12 months and over                   7.0-9.0 8.76-10.26  8.26-10.25 8.25- 10.26   8.6-10.76
Lending Rates
Overdraft                              12.3-19.0  11.75-19.0  11.76-20.0 11.76-20.0  11.76-12.76
Prime Lending Rate                          12.8      12.25        12.26      12.26        12.26
Average Lending Rate                        14.3       13.9         14.1       14.6         16.2
Bank of Papua New Guinea
Deposit Rates for Commercial Banks           8.0       8.25          9.0       8.26         8.75
Discount Rate La                             8.8       10.8         9.66        9.8          9.3
Treasury Bills (182 days) Lb                 9.6       12.0        10.76       10.0         10.6
Finance Companies
Term Deposits under K 60,000
1 year                                8.5-13.0   8.6-10.5   8.6-10.26 8.25-10.26    8.6-10.6
Term Deposits under K 60,000 and
over 1 year                         10.26-12.1  11.5-13.26 10.76-13.25  10.0-12.95   10.5-13.0
Commercial Loans /L                    18.0-22.0  19.6-22.0   19.0-23.0  19.5-22.0   19.6-26.0
/a Bank of PNG's discount facility was introduced in May 1983 and withdrawn in November 1986. A new
discount facility was introduced in February 1988.
/b Treasury bills are sold at a discount; rates shown are calculated effective yields.
jS Representative range charged on the bulk of new loans.
Source: Data provided by PNG authorities.
7.         Credits.   The minimum liquidity ratio for commercial banks has been
changed on several occasions to reflect changes in monetary policy. It was
lowered gradually from 25 percent of deposit liabilities in 1977 to 14 percent



-  39   -                       ANNEX 2
Page 4
in 1984 and 11 percent at present. While the commercial banks are encouraged
to use the discount facility, within limits, to bridge shortfalls in liquidity
resulting from temporary declines in their deposit base, BPNG does not intend
the discount facility to be used as another source of credit to the commercial
banks. Persistent shortfalls in meeting the liquid af ts requirement for
banks is subject to the LLR facility rate which is presently a punitive 36.5
percent per annum. As a result of the closure of the Bougainville mine and
reduced commodity export prices the liquidity of the commercial banks was
squeezed during the latter part of 1989 which resulted in an increase in both
deposit and lending rates. This increase in interest rates, together with the
slowdown in economic activity, has recently eased the demand for credit and
reduced significantly the liquidity squeeze with the end result that lending
interest rates are now expected to drop between 1-2 percent before the end of
1990.
8.        In the past., the central bank has used general credit guidelines, to
direct bank lending to certain activities. In 1980, BPNG instructed banks to
give preference in their lending activities to exports, import substitution
and borrowers with substantial PNG equity ownership. Also banks were
instructed to give lcw priority for consumer goods or to development projects
if overseas financing was available and not to consider loans for the purchase
of overseas assets or for the repayment of overseas debt without BPNG
approval. In 1983, these guidelines were replaced by a broad guideline for
banks to give preference in their lending to residents and companies with
substantial share of local equity and to export promotion and import
substitution activities. Restrictions were also placed on the refinancing of
overseas debt. In December 1987, the guidelines were modified again and
specific targets set for priority sectors. Commercial banks were required to
have at least 20 percent of their loan portfolio in agriculture, forestry and
fishing sectors. (This requirement allowed the holding of bonds issued by the
Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea to be included in the 20 percent
requirement). In addition, banks were required to hold at least 5 percent of
their portfolio in housing loans for Papua New Guinea citizens. The remaining
directives of the 1983 guidelines were maintained. BPNG imposed penalties for
non-compliance with the above guidelines.
9.        The central bank has in the past announced annual targets for the
overall credit expansion of commercial banks.  As part of Government's overall
structural adjustment process the central bank imposed, in early 1990, zero
credit growth ceiling for commercial banks. This credit ceiling was increased
to 4 - 5 percent excluding the following activities: (a) mortgage financing
for owner-occupied housing for loans up to K 30,000; (b) loans to the
agricultural sector under Government sponsored schemes; (c) loans and advances
to nationally owned businesses up to a maximum of K 30,000; (d) loans to
individuals to a maximum of K 2,000 and (e) loans for school fees. Because of
the liquidity squeeze earlier this year (para. 6) the credit growth ceilings
are unlikely to be exceeded by the end of 1990.
10.       Commercial banks have been in the past heavily orientated in their
lending towards commerce, trade and other business and these sectors have
represented about 48 percent of their portfolio. In contrast, except for
agriculture, higher priority activities, from a development point of view,
such as industry and building construction have averaged only about 20 percent



-  40  -                        ANNEX 2
Page 5
of the commercial banks credit (Table 2), although the percentages can differ
widely between banks. In recent years a number of special facilities have
been introduced by the Government and by the central bank to promote
development lending by commercial banks in priority sectors including
agriculture. However, these still represent only a small proportion of total
term lending by the banks. In the housing seccor, the Government has
introduced the Home Loan Guarantee Scheme (HLGS) and the Home Loan Interest
Subsidy Scheme (HLISS). Under the HLGS, the Government guarantees to banks 80
percent of the outstanding balance in case of default by the borrower. The
Commercial Banks cite this scheme as being very important to lending on
customary land where a land title cannot be used as collateral. By March 1990
about K 10.2 million had been committed under this scheme (Table 3). As can
be seen from the table the arrearage record by the banks participating in this
project is good with less than 2 percent of outstanding amounts in arrears of
over 60 days. On the other hand, PNGBC (a government-owned commercial banks)
has an unsatisfactory arrearage performance with over 44 percent. The HLISS
provides an interest subsidy to the borrower. The scheme has the effect of
either reducing periodic payments or of increasing the loan amount which can
be afforded by borrowers. Under the HLISS less than K 2.0 million had been
committed by the end of 1989. Other special facilities available for these
priority sectors include the Credit Guarantee Scheme (CGS) and an Agriculture
De-elopment Facility to encourage term lending by commercial banks for
agricultural projects.
Table 2: DISTRIBUTION OF CREDIT BY ECONOMIC SECTOR
(In Percent of Total Credit)
Oct.      Nov.       Nov.       Nov.
1986      1987       1988       1989
Agriculture, Forestry and mining        23.0       17.2       20.8      22.4
Manufacturing                           13.1       12.7       10.8       8.7
Transport and Storage                    8.7        6.9        8.0      10.1
Finance                                  2.6        1.5        1.7       1.3
Commerce                                20.0       25.0       25.0      24.2
Building and Construction                6.9        8.2        8.3       8.8
Mining                                   1.5        2.2        1.3       1.8
Other                                   24.2       26.3       14.1      22.7
Total                               100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Source: Bank of Papua New Guinea, Quarterly Economic Bulletins.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Table 3:  PERFORMANCE OF HOUSING LOAN GUARANTEE SCHEME
QUARTER ENDING
(K '000)
Averages
BANK                               Dec. 1988       June 1989       Sept. 1989      Doc. 1989       March 1990      June 1990      (12 months)
No.    Amount  No.    Amount  No.    Amount  No.    Amount  No.    Amount  No.    Amount  No.    Amount
WESTPAC     Approved in qtr       (12)    148   (16)      184   (16)      167    (8)        76   (20)      207    (7)       71   (13)       139
Total Approved      (303)  2,390  (333)   2,769  (367)   2,947  (365)   3,094  (386)   3,242  (392)   3,314
Total Outstanding   (97)    905  (147)   1,677  (164)   1,841  (162)   1,032  (168)   1,932  (170)   1,899  (162)    1,t7e
Total Arrears         (9)      10    (7)       10    (4)       10   (10)       11   (15)       (9)  (10)       14   (10)
Undrawn              (10)    104   (40)       227   (51)      359   (53)      467   (43)      406   (36)      355
Ave X in Arrears                                                                                                   (6.2)       0.7
PNGBC       Approved in Qtr        (8)      73    (5)      63    (5)        82    (4)       46    (2)       24    (l)       20    (a)        43
Total Approved      (525)  5,252  (539)   5,425  (543)   5,488  (547)   5,553  (649)   5,558  (560)   5,571
Total Outstanding  (327)  2,917  (323)   2,837  (322)   2,829  (308)   2,750  (296)   2,656  (287)   2,578  (307)    2,730
Total Arrears       (124)    927  (112)   1,040  (126)   1,201  (136)   1,264  (137)   1,311  (132)   1,234  (128)    1,210
Undrawn               na       no   (18)      187    na        na    no       (22)   90       (27) 105
Ave U in Arroars                                                                                                    (42)        44
ANZ         Approved in Qtr        (2)      1s    (6)      79    (4)       S    (1)        13    (0)       0   (na)        na    (3)        3s
Total Approved      (107)    707  (113)       786  (117)      839  (118)      852  (118)      862   (no)       na
Total Outstanding   (49)    348   (49)        383   (61)     438   (52)       523   (69)      586   (na)       no   (55)       482
Total Arrears         (6)      38    (6)       61    (8)       se    (8)       54    (8)       74   (na)       no    (7)        61
Undrawn               (8)      42    (8)       se    (4)       37    (2)       10    (2)       10   (na)       na
Ave X in Arrears                                                                                                    (13)        13
BSP         Approved in Qtr        (4)     42    (3)       28   (na)       na    (0)        0    (0)        0    (0)         0  (0.5)         7
Total Approvod       (59)    587   (62)      828   (na)        na   (e2)     628   (62)      628   (62)      628
Total Outstanding   (33)    330   (34)        319   (no)       na   (34)      319   (28)      278   (27)      264   (31)       295
Total Arrears         (4)       6    (6)       10   (na)       na    (6)       10    (4)       10    (s)       11    (5)        10
Undrawn               (2)      21    (2)       21   (na)       na    (2)       21    (0)        0    (0)        0
Ave % in Arrears                                                                                                    (16)         3
Source: PNG Department of Finance and Planning.



-  42  -                         ANNEX 2
Page 7
11.       Due to the short-term nature of term deposits (mostly less than 12
months), long-term lending for housing finance and other term lending is very
limited; most housing loans have maturities between 5 and 10 years.
Nevertheless, term deposits as a percent of all deposits have been increasing
steadily and accounted for about 54 percent of total deposit liabilities by
the end of 1989, which in turn represented over 76 percent of commercial
bank's resources (Table 4). Thus, at present there appears to be more room by
commercial banks to increase their term lending, but long-term lending for
housing finance will continue to be very limited without the banks incurring
excessive term-transformation risks. The paucity in term lending for other
sectors is also attributable to the shortage of "bankable" projects due to
inadequate management experience of the borrower, lack of adequate equity
participation, inadequate collateral and poor project preparation.
Table 4: COMMERCIAL BANKS: PRINCIPAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, MAY 1990
(Kina million)
Weekly Average       Growth rate (Z)
LIABILITIES
Cheque Account Deposits                 197.3                   4.3
Passbook & Other Demand Deposits        187.7                  10.2
Term Deposits                           534.1                   3.2
Foreign Currency Deposits                 3.9                  23.0
Total Deposits                       922.9                   4.9
Borrowing from BPNG                      29.8                  70.2
ASSETS
Total Lending                           985.5                  10.4
-Kina Lending                           850.5                  11.8
-Foreign Currency Lending
denominated in kina                     78.0                  -3.3
Liquid Assets                           125.4                 -17.4
Source:  Bank of Papua of Nlew Guinea - Statistics Update. May 1990.
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
12.       Participation in the Housing Refinance Facility is open to eligible
commercial banks or financial institutions, subject to the eligibility
criteria set out in the guidelines for the HRF (see Annex 3). Three of the



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
five commercial banks 2/ expressed strong interest in participating in the
scheme; one other bank (PNGBC) expressed reservations about participating in
the facility, at least for now, because of their present excess liquidity for
housir.g finance. The fifth commercial bank (Banque-Indosuez Niugini (BIN) is
presently undergoing recapitalization as a result of some large write-offs and
was not approached by the appraisal mission. It is expected that PNGBC and
perhaps other financial institutions, including a new Mortgage Finance Company
being set up by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) may in due
course participate, if found eligible. Nevertheless, the three participating
banks hold about 50 percent of all assets in the commercial banking system of
PNG and are associated with prominent international banks. The ownership,
organizations and staffing, operations and financial structure and performance
of these banks are analyzed and described below.
13.       Ownership.  The three participating banks have a large majority of
foreign banking participation: Westpac Banking Corporation (Australia) holds
89.1 percent of the shares of Westpac Bank - PNG Ltd. and the remaining 10.9
percent is owned by a wide number of PNG nationals. (Westpac Banking
Corporation is ranked the 28th largest bank in the world in terms of
shareholder's equity and has operations in 29 countries); Australia and New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. holds 85 percent of the shares of ANZ with the
remaining 15 percent being held by PNG's Public Officers Superannuation fund;
National Australia Bank holds 87 percent of the shares of Bank of South
Pacific Ltd. with the balance of 13 percent widely held by PNG nationals. The
predominant participation of the above mentioned large international banks
adds greatly to the range and depth of experience, skills and services
available as well as provides a sense of stability and confidence to the
participating banks. All three banks have been operating in PNG for over 10
years. The following table summarizes the ownership structure, size by assets
staffing and the number of branches of these banks.
21   Westpac Bank-PNG Ltd (Westpac;, Australia-New Zealand Banking Group PNG
Ltd. (ANZ); and Bank of South Pacific Ltd (BSP).



- 44  -                          ANNEX 2
Page 9
Table 52 OWNERSHIP, STAFFING AND BRANCHES OF THE PFIS
PFI1           Total Assets      Staff number   Branches        Shareholding
(Kina millions)
Westpac           308.6             729              16       89.12 Westpac
(of which 65 are                Banking Corp.;
expatriates)                  10.92 PNG Nationals.
ANZ               153.0             325               9       85.0  Australia
(of which 39 are                and New Zealand
expatriates)                  Banking Group Ltd.;
15.0% Public
officer's
Superannuation Fund.
Bank of South      99.8             264               7      87.0% National
Pacific                      (of which 24 are                Australia Bank;
expatriates)                  13.0% PNG Nationals.
14.       Organization and Staffing.  The three eligible PF1 are all fairly
similar in their organizational structure, reflecting the similarities in
their operations. They are generally organized into four departments: Credit
Management (retail and corporate), International Operations or Business,
Finance and Planning, and Administration and Personnel. In two of the banks
(ANZ and Westpac) the managers of each department report directly to the
Managing Director. In the Bank of South Pacific the department managers
report to a Senior Manager who in turn reports to the Managing Director. The
branch managers report directly to the Credit Management Department for credit
decisions. Within each specialized department there are a number of units
dealing with specific areas such as internal audit, marketing, data
processing, credit administration, credit recovery etc. The total staffing of
each bank is shown on Table 5. The largest number of staff are, of course, in
the branches. Roughly 10 percent of the staff are expatriates who usually
head the main departments and branches. Staff training is actively pursued by
each bank, some in collaboration with the parent bank. For example, during
1989, 280 officers attended various training courses mostly in PNG, but some
of these were sent to Australia for three months on work experience training
with the parent bank. The organization and quality of staff in all three
banks is acceptable for project purposes.
15.       The loan approval process is also very similar between the three
banks. Branch managers have authority limits which vary considerably between
branches (depending on individual, type of security, and size of branch), and
can range between Kina 5,000 to Kina 150,000, but usually there is a maximum
cumulative ceiling above which loans must be submitted to Credit Management
Department in Port Moresby. The Credit Management Department, in turn, has
authority ranging between about Kina 250,000 and Kina 500,000, but can
increase this authority for follow-on operations. The managing directors have



-  45  -                        ANNEX 2
Page 10
authority generally between Kina 650,000 to Kina 750,000; above thepe limits
loans must be approved by the Board of Directors and subsequently sent to the
parent company for review.
16.       Financial Structure and Performance  The tables accompanying this
Annex present the past audited financial statements, summary financial ratios
and structure of the portfolio of the three PFIs which have so far been
classified as eligible to participate in the Housing Refinance Facility (HRF)
under the project. Total assets of the three banks have grown at an average
annual rate of about 13 percent over the past 4 to 5 years. Some slowing down
in the rate of growth occurred in 1989 and an even greater decrease is
expected in 1990, as a re3ult of the liquidity squeeze resulting from the
closing of the Bougainville mine and the general decrease in economic growth
in PNG. Nevertheless, over the past years the rate of growth has been
healthy, but not excessive, reflecting the conservative approach to lending of
the parent banks.
17.       The financial structure of the participating banks is characterized
by relatively short-term deposits (less than one year), with little or no
medium or long-term debt. By year-end 1989 medium and long-term liabilities
and capital accounted for only 16.4, 6.7 and 12.4 percent of total assets for
Westpac, ANZ and BSP, respectively. Westpac has a larger share of medium and
longer-term resources because of its relatively high capitalization and also
because of Kina 17.5 million of BPNG loans being on-lent for agriculture and
for export promotion due by 1995. ANZ and BSP have no such medium-long term
liabilities. Cash receivables and short-term loans and advances accounted for
85, 94 and 83 percent of total assets for Westpac, ANZ and BSP, respectively.
Thus, the financial structure is characterized by short-term resources
supporting short term loans and liquid assets.
18.       Capitalization  As shown in Table 6 below, the three banks have
maintained debt equity ratios averaging 12:1 over 1984/89, which is an
acceptable level for commercial-type bank institutions. As mentioned in para
4, the central bank is developing comprehensive guidelines which will include
capital adequacy criteria based on the Basle Agreement.
Table 6: DEBT/EQUITY RATIOS OF PFIs
Fiscal Year           Westpac                    ANZ                  BSP
(September 30)
1984                  na                        na                 14.9:1
1985                12.8:1                    13.3:1                7.5:1
1986                12.6:1                    15.8:1                8.6:1
1987                12.0:1                    16.9:1                8.9:1
1988                 9.4:1                    16.5:1                8.3:1
1989                 8.8:1                    15.4:1                7.1:1
Average              11.1:1                    15.6:1                9.2:1



-  46  -                         ANNEX 2
Page 11
19.       Profitability.  After-tax returns as a percent of equity of the
three PFIs has averaged about 19 percent during the last 4-5 years, which is
positive in real terms.3/ While the level of profitability is acceptable,
administrative expenses as a percentage of average total assets averaged about
8 percent during the last 4-5 years which is very high and reflects the high
cost of expatriate staff. Nevertheless, the percentage has steadily decreased
and by Fiscal Year 1989 it averaged 6 percent for the three banks, which is
still on the high side. Gross spreads (interest income less interest expense)
as a percent of average total assets for ANZ and BSP averaged about 9.1 and
4.2, respectively which shows that the margins are quite adequate and perhaps
on the high side as compared to the overall commercial banking system
(para. 5). Information on spreads was not released by Westpac. Summary data
for the three PF1 is shown on Table 7 below:
Table 7: COMPARATIVE BANK RATIOS (BASED ON LATEST AUDITED STATEMENTS)
Westpac      ANZ        BSP
Balance Sheet Ratios
Loans and Advances (Kina millions)                 226.3      123.1       69.8
Gross Loans and Advances (Kina millions)           231.3      124.5       70.5
Average Loans and Advances (Kina millions)         210.0      115.3       66.3
Fiscal Year End (FYE) Equity (Kina millions)    31.3            9.3       12.4
Average Equity (Kina millions)                      28.8        8.4       10.9
Average Total Assets (ATA) (Kina millions)         290.9      142.3       93.5
Current Ratio                                        1.0        1.0        0.9
D/E Ratio                                            8.8       15.4        7.1
Average Loans and Advances/ATA (Z)                  72.2       81.0       70.9
Average Equity/Average Portfolio (Z)                13.7        7.3       16.4
Annual Growth in Total Assets                       12.9       16.2       14.4
Income Statement Ratios
Gross Spread (Kina millions)                         n.a.       6.6        6.7
Gross Spread/ATA (Z)                                 n.a        4.6        7.2
Administrative Expenses/ATA (2)                      6.4        4.8        6.0
Gross Earnings/ATA (Z)                              15.1        7.7       11.0
Net Profit/Equity (Z)                               22.6       28.1       22.7
Dividend/year end share capital (2)                 40.0       27.5       30.0
Dividend Payout Ratio (Z)                           32.7       23.3       27.9
Interest Income as 2 Ave. Cash, Loans & Adv          n.a.      13.5       15.4
Interest Expense as 2 Ave. Deposits, Loans Pay   5.9            9.9        5.9
n.a. - Information not available.
3/   ANZ sustained a small loss in 1986 as a result of a liquidity squeeze and
a six month period of interest rate regulation applied by BPNG which
adversely affected its spreads.



-  47  -                         ANNEX 2
Page 12
20.       Portfolio Structure, Quality and Reserves.  The sectoral
distribution of the portfolio of the three PFIs is similar to that of the
banking system as a whole (para. 9). As shown in Table 8, lending of all
three banks is heavily concentrated in commerce (wholesale and retail)
averaging about 16 percent for the three banks and for Westpac and ANZ in
agricultural lending with 23 and 31 percent of their portfolio respectively in
this sector. ANZ, in turn, is more involved in lending for transport and
general business. Only a relatively small proportion of PFIs lending is for
the manufacturing sector. Real estate loans (including mortgage lending) is
also a relatively small share of PFI lending, averaging about 3 percent of
their portfolio. All three banks, however, have strong interest in increasing
their housing finance portfolio, particularly if long-term funding through the
HRF becomes available, and all three have indicated that the lack of long-term
funds has been a major constraint in the past; maturities are necessarily
limited to between 5 to 10 years making the periodic payments unaffordable to
many potential clients. At present, the interest rates for housing loans
range between 13 and 14 percent.



-  48  -                         ANNEX 2
Page 13
Table 8: SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION Oi PFI's PORTFOLIO
(K millic.'
WESTPAC             ANZ         South Pacific
Amount        z     Amount    4    Amount         z
Sector                        (August 29, 1990   (May 9, 1990)  (August 8, 1990)
1. Business
Agriculture                48.0       23.0     31.5   31.0       3.6      5.4
Forestry                    0.6       0.3       2.8    2.8       0.1      0.1
Fishing                     0.4       0.2       0.1    0.1       0.9      1.4
Manufacturing              28.4       13.6      2.7    2.6       2.1      3.2
Transport                   9.4        4.5      5.2    5.1    11.6       17.3
Finance                     6.7       3.2       0.7    0.7       1.1      1.6
W1holesale Trade           13.5        6.5      4.8    4.8       0.3      0.4
Retail Trade               22.2      10.6       9.2    9.0    11.1       16.5
Building and Constr.       18.1       8.6       3.4    3.3       3.1      4.6
Mining and Quarrying        5.9        2.8      0.7    0.7       0.2      0.3
Hotel and Restaurant        2.6        1.3      2.6    2.6       0.7      1.0
P----erty and Invest.       5.0       2.4       5.3    5.3       5.4      8.0
Pr>uessional and Bus.       1.1       0.5       1.3    1.2    12.0       17.9
Other Business             15.5        7.4     11.0   11.8       7.7     11.4
Subtotal             177.5       84.9      81.3   80.0    59.9       89.2
2. Government
Central                     0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0
Provincial                  0.4        0.2      0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0
Local                       0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0       0.1      0.1
Subtotal               0.4        0.2       0.0    0.0      0.1       0.1
3. Personal
Housing                     4.8        2.3      2.3    2.3       2.0      3.0
Other Personal             22.1      10.6      17.1   16.8       5.1      7.6
Subtotal Personal    26.9        12.8      19.4   19.1      7.1      10.6
4.  Non Profit Organizations  4.3          2.1       0.2    0.2      0.1       0.2
5.  Non resident Borrowers    0.0          0.0       0.8    0.8      0.0       0.0
GRAND TOTAL               209.1     100.0    101.6  100.0    67.2    100.0
Note:   Table excludes small amount of lending (mainly to export sector) in
foreign exchange.



-  49  -                        ANNEX 2
Page 14
21.       In terms of quality, all three PFIs classify their loans somewhat
differently. Westpac problem-loan classification is as follows:
(a) substandard (some late payments or frequently in arrears); (b) doubtful
(non-performing and subject to write-off). ANZ's portfolio categories range
between category A (the best) to D (no interest accrued, but some chance of
recovery) and category E (provisioning made and likely write-off). BSP makes
specific provisions based on a similar classification of the portfolio to the
other two banks and a general provision which is based on a fixed percent of
the portfolio and is intended to cover bad debts inherent in the portfolio,
but not yet iderntified. Loans placed in the doubtful category immediately
stop accruing interest. Westpac and ANZ non-performing portfolio is less than
2 percent of gross portfolio all of which has been provided for by Westpac and
80 percent by ANZ. ANZ's portfolio under categories D+E represented only 5
percent of gross portfolio in fiscal year 1989. BSP's non-performing loans
are written off every year. For fiscal year 1989 BSP write-offs amounted to
less than 1 percent of gross portfolio. Based on the above results, it is
quite evident that the quality of the PFIs portfolio was very satisfactory and
that bad loans are quickly provided for or written off. Unfortunately, for
1990 the portfolios of all banks show a marked deterioration as a direct
result of the closing of the Bougainville mine and the collapse of the economy
in that island. All three banks have taken substantial write-offs on non-
performing (mainly agricultural) loans in the area.4/ While details of the
level of write-offs is not yet available (audit reports are underway), all
three banks expect that the profitability during FY90 will suffer
substantially. None, however, expect significant erosion of their capital
base. Tables 9, 10 land 11 show details of the three Bank's annual audited
accounts during 1985-89.
22.       As a result of the recent Bougainville crisis, all commercial banks
in PNG are now aware ot the need to diversify their portfolio both sectorally
and geographically and to impose strict limits on exposure to single borrowers
or groups of related borrowers. It is expected that BPNG will provide
guidance in this regard.
4/   ANZ's portfolio suffered as a result of the acquisition of Niugini-Lloyds
International Bank in early 1990 which had some large agricultural loans
in Bougainville.



- 4  ~                               ANNEX 2
Page 15
Table 9: ANALYSIS OF BANK S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WESTPAC BANK PNO LTD.
(Audited Accounts es of September 30)
(in Kina million)
Classification                                        1985       1986      1987       1988       1989
Balance Sheets
1. Assets
Cash, Receivables A other
short-term funds                                  7.3      10.1       16.6       18.6      17.0
Loans and advances due
within 1 year (net)                             134.0     160.6      178.3      198.7     226.3
Other short-term assets                            19.7      10.8        7.5       16.7      19.1
Current Assets                              181.1      171.5      201.4     229.0      262.3
Loans and advances due
after one year (net)                              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Investments                                        35.0      39.4       21.3       28.8      27.7
Fixed and other assets (net)                       10.7      10.1       11.9       1.75      18.8
Total Assets                                208.8      221.0      234.6     273.2      308.8
2. Liabilities and EquIty
Current and time deposits
(less than 1 year)                             157.3      165.1      188.7     191.7      224.0
Loans payable (current)                             8.6      10.8       16.2       16.9      16.3
Accounts payable and
other short-term liabilities                     11.3      12.8       11.9       16.4      17.6
Current Liabilities                         176.3      188.6      196.7     226.0      257.9
Time deposits (over 1 year)                         9.3       4.7        2.4        3.7       1.9
Loans payable (medium and long-term)                7.1      11.4       17.3       18.2      17.6
Other liabilities                                   0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Medium and Long-term Liabilities             16.5       16.3       19.7      21.9       19.4
Share capital                                       5.3       5.3        5.8        5.3       5.3
Retained earnings and reserves                      9.7      11.0       12.8       21.0      26.0
Net Worth                                    15.0       16.3       18.1      26.3       31.3
Total Liabilities and Equity                   208.8      221.0      234.5     273.2      308.6
Contingent Liabilities /                           30.0      38.1       40.7      127.8     141.8
Ratios
Current ratio                                       0.9       0.9        1.0        1.0       1.0
Total debt/equity                                  12.8      12.6       12.0        9.4       8.8
Annual growth In total assets (%)                   7.0       8.9        6.1       16.5      12.9
Current assets/net worth                           10.7      10.6       11.1        8.7       8.4
Average loans and advances/ATA (%)                 64.8      36.4       72.2       7t.3      72.2
Average equity/Ave. Loans and
Advances (%)                                     11.2      10.8       10.5       11.9      13.7
Average total assets (ATA)                          108       207        228        264       291
Average loans and advances                           67         75       164        188       210
Average equity                                        8         8         17         22        29
Average deposits                                     83        8s        170        183       211
Average deposits and loans payable                   90       9s         198        218       246
Average cash, loans and advances                     71        80        177        203       228
/a   Acceptances, guarantees, letters of credit, forward exchange contracts and other commitment
for accounts of customers.
Note: For Westpaec during 1989, loans and advances due in less then 1 year include K 100 million
due in over one year but subject to call by the bank within 14 days of notice.



-   51   -                                    ANNEX 2
Table 9: (cont'd)
Classification                                        1986       1988      1987       1988       1989
Income Statement
Interest Income                                    n.s.      n.s.       n.s.      n.s.       n.s.
Interest expenses                                   9.0      13.6       12.6       13.1      14.6
Gross Spread                                 n.a.       n.s.       n.s.      n.a.       n.a.
Other Income                                      278.6      33.1       a4.3       38.9      44.1
Administrative *xpenses                            13.0      14.3       16.2       18.8      18.7
Other operating expenses                            1.0       1.2        1.1        0.9       1.4
Loan-loss provision (net)                           1.3       0.9        0.9        1.2       0.6
Taxes                                               1.1       1.2        1.7        2.7       2.4
Net profit                                        2.1       2.0        2.9        4.4       6.6
Dividends                                         0.7       0.7        1.1        1.8       2.1
Ratios
Gross spread as X of ATA                           n.s.      n.x.       n.o.       n.n.      n.e.
Administrstive costs as % of ATA                   12.8       8.9        8.7        8.8       8.4
Gross income as % of ATA                           26.7      18.0       15.1       15.3      15.1
Net profit as % of Average net worth               28.0      24.9       16.7       19.9      22.6
Dividend as X year-end share capital               12.9      14.0       20.0       30.0      40.0
Dividend as payout ratio (X)                       32.8      38.8       37.2       38.2      32.7
(1) Total income as X Ave. cash, loans A Adv.   39.1         41.1       19.4       19.2      19.3
(2) Interest income *a X Ave. Cash, loans A Ad. n.s.         n.a.       n.o.      n.a.       n.o.
(3) Interest expense as % Ave. Deposit, Loan    10.0         14.1        8.3       6.0        8.9
(1)-(3)                                           29.0       27.1       13.1      13.2       13.4
(2)-(3)                                           n.e.       n.s.       n.s.      n.m.       n.s.
Note: For Westpac other Income includes interest income.  Interest Income was not disclosed by
bank.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 17
Table 10: ANALYSIS OF BANK S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANZ BANKING GROUP (PNG) LTD.
(Audited Accounts as of September 30)
(in Kina million)
Classification                                       1986       1966      1987       1988      1989
Balance Sheets
1. Assets
Cash Receivables A other
short-term funds                                12.7       9.9        9.6       11.6      18.1
Loans and advances due
within 1 year (net)                             57.2      74.4       89.7      107.4     123.1
Other short-term assets                            7.7        8.2       2.0        1.4       2.7
Current Assets                               77.7      87.6      101.3     120.4      148.9
Loans and advances due
after one year (net)                             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Investments                                        6.9       6.5        6.6        6.6       8.7
Fixed and other astse.  (net)                      6.1        6.8       6.8        6.7       6.4
Total Assets                                 88.7      98.4      118.8     181.7      165.0
2. Liabilities and EguiLt
Current and etme deposits
(less than 1 year)                              65.2      80.1       92.8      97.1      121.6
Loans payable (current)                            4.6        0.2       0.2        2.1       0.1
Accounts payable and
other short-term liabilities                     4.7       6.6       18.7       24.0      20.9
Current Liabilities                          74.6      86.9      108.6     123.3      142.7
Time deposits (over 1 year)                        7.6        6.4       0.5        0.6       0.6
Loans payable (medlum and long-term)               0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Other liabilities                                  0.8       0.2        0.4        0.4       0.4
Medium and Long-term Lisbilities              7.9       6.6        0.8       0.9        1.0
Share capital                                      2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0
Retained earnings and reserves                     4.2       82.8       4.8        6.6       7.8
Net Worth                                     6.2       6.8        6.8       7.6        9.8
Total Liabilities and Equity                    88.7      98.4      118.8      181.7     168.0
Contingent Liabilities /a                          8.1       16.0      20.9       26.0      16.7
Ratios
Current ratio                                      1.0        1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0
Total debt/equity                                 18.8       16.8      16.9       16.6      16.4
Annual growth in total assets (U)                 n.e.       10.9      16.7       16.7      16.2
Current assets/net worth                          12.5       16.0      16.0       16.0      15.4
Average loans and edvances/ATA (%)                n.s.       70.4      77.4       80.3      81.0
Average equity/Ave. Loans and
Advances (M)                                    n.s.       9.2        7.4        7.0       7.3
Average total assets (ATA)                        n.n.       93.6     106.1      123.0     142.0
Average loans and advances                        n.n.      65.8       82.1       99.0     116.0
Average equity                                    n.e.        6.0       6.1        7.0       8.0
Average deposits                                  n.a.       79.1      89.4       95.0     110.0
Average deposits and loans payable                n.a.       81.6      89.6       97.0     111.0
Average cash, loans and advances                  n.a.       77.1      91.8      109.0     130.0
/a   Acceptances, guarantees, letters of credit, forward exchange contracts and other commitment
for accounts of customers.
Note: For Westpsc during 1989, loans and advances due in less than 1 year include K 100 million
due in over one yoar but subject to call by the bank within 14 days of notice.



- 53 -
AM!EX 2
Page 18
Table 10: (cont'd)
Classification                                       1986      1988      1987       1988      1989
Income Stotement
Interost Income                                   7.7       10.6      12.1      14.6       17.6
Interost expenase                                  4.8       7.2       7.8       9.0       11.0
Gross Spreed                                 3.6        3.3       4.3       5.6        6.6
Other income                                      2.9        3.2       3.6        3.8       4.3
Administrative expenses                           6.3        6.0      65.        6.6        6.9
Other operating *xpenses                          0.3        0.6       0.6        0.6       0.6
Loan-loss provision (not)                         0.1        0.4       0.6       (0.2)      0.0
Taxes                                             0.2       (0.2)      0.6        0.8       1.1
Not profit                                      0.5       (0.2)      0.8        1.8       2.4
Dividends                                       0.3        0.1       0.3       0.8        0.8
Ratio*
Gross spread as X of ATA                         n.e.        3.6       4.0        4.6       4.6
Administrative costs as X of ATA                 n.a.        6.4       5.2        6.4       4.8
Gross Income as X of ATA                         na.         7.0       7.4        7.7       7.7
Not profit as % of Average net worth             n.e.       -3.6      12.4       26.3      28.1
Dividend as X year-end sharo capital             16.0        7.0      15.0       27.6      27.6
Dividend as payout ratio (X)                     59.4      -65.1      39.5       31.3      23.3
(1) Total Income as X Av-. cash, loans A Adv.   na.         17.8      17.1      16.9       16.8
(2) Interest Income as % Ave. Cash, loans A Ad. na.        13.6       13.2      18.4       13.5
(3) Interest expense as X Ave. Deposit, Loan    na.         8.9        8.8       9.3        9.9
M1)-(3)                                          n.e.       9.0        8.8       7.6        6.9
(2)-(3)                                          na.        4.7        4.5       4.1        3.6



-  54   -                                   ANNEX 2
Page 19
Table 11: ANALYSIS OF BANK'S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BANK OF SOUTH PACIFIC LTD.
(Audited Accounts as of September 80)
(in Kina million)
Classification                                       1986      1986      1987       1988      1989
Balance Sheets
1. Assets
Cash, Receivables A other
short-term funds                                2.3        1.9       6.2        6.2       8.8
Loans and advances due
within 1 year (net)                            29.9       37.1      63.3      62.7       69.8
Other short-term assets                           2.2        0.9       8.7        2.2       4.2
Current Assets                              34.4      39.9       62.2      70.1       82.8
Loans and advances due
after one year (net)                            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Investments                                       9.2       11.7       7.1        9.4       8.3
Fixed and other assets (net)                      6.6        5.6       6.3        7.6       8.6
Total Assets                                49.2       57.2      76.6      87.2       99.8
2. Liabilities and Equity
Current and t;me deposits
(less than 1 year)                             38.2      47.2       62.6      70.3       81.4
Loans payable (current)                           1.7        1.4       2.0        2.6       1.8
Accounts payable and
other short-term liabilities                    3.8        2.6       8.4       4.9        4.2
Current Liabilities                         43.4       61.2      68.0      77.8       87.4
Time deposits (over 1 year)                       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Loans payable (medium and long-term)              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Other liabilities                                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Medium and Long-term Liabilities             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Share capital                                     2.3        2.8       2.8        2.3       2.3
Retained earnings and reserves                   3.66        3.7       5.3        7.1      10.1
Net Worth                                    6.8        6.0       7.8       9.4       12.4
Total Liabilities and Eauity                   49.2       67.2      76.6      87.2       99.8
Contingent Liabilities /a                        na.        na.       na.        n.a.   169,032
Ratios
Current ratio                                     0.8        0.8       0.9       0.9        0.9
Total debt/equity                                 7.6        8.6       8.9        8.3       7.1
Annual growth In total assets (U)               -11.0       16.3      32.1       16.3      14.4
Current assets/net worth                          8.0        6.7       8.2        7.5       6.7
Average loans and advances/ATA (2) 62.6                     63.0      68.1       71.3      70.9
Average equity/Ave. Loans and
Advances (U)                                   14.1       17.6      15.0       14.7      18.4
Average total assets (ATA)                       42.2       63.2      f6.4       81.4      93.6
Average loans and advances32.7                   33.6       46.2      68.0      66.3
Average equity                                    4.6        6.9       6.8        8.6      10.9
Average depoelts                                 40.8       42.7      64.9      66.4       76.9
Average deposits and loans payable               44.1       44.2      66.6       68.7      78.0
Average cash, loans and advances                 34.6       35.6      48.7       63.2      73.2
/a   Acceptances, guarantees, letters of credit, forward exchange contracts and other commitment
for accounts of customers.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 20
Table 11: (cont'd)
Classification                                       1985      1986      1987       1988      1989
Income Statement
Interest income                                   5.0        6.2       7.6       9.9       11.3
Interest expenses                                 2.0        3.4       8.1       4.6        4.6
Oross Sproad                                 3.0        2.8       4.4       6.3        6.7
Other income                                      2.7        2.2       2.9        3.3       3.6
Administrative expenses                           4.0        4.0       4.8        4.4       6.8
Other operating expenses                          0.3        0.4       0.4        0.8       0.9
Loan-loss provision (net)                         0.0        0.2       0.3        0.4       0.3
Taxes                                             0.3        0.2       0.7        1.0       1.0
Net profit                                      1.2        0.3       1.4        2.2       2.5
Dividends                                       0.2        0.1       0.3        0.4       0.7
Ratios
Gross spread as X of ATA                           5.7       5.3       8.7        6.6       7.2
Administrative costs as X of ATA                   7.6       7.5       6.9        S.5       8.0
Gross Income as X of ATA                          10.9       9.4      11.1       10.6      11.0
Net profit as X of Average net worth              26.6       4.7      20.1       26.1      22.7
Dividend as % year-end share capital              10.0       4.3      13.0       18.0      30.0
Dividend as payout ratio (S)                      19.4      36.4      21.9       18.8      27.9
(1) Total Income as X Ave. cash, loans & Adv.   22.2       23.6       21.5      20.9       20.2
(2) Interest income as X Ave. Cash, loans A Ad. 14.4        17.4      15.6      15.6       16.4
(3) Interest expense as % Ave. Deposit, Loan      4.5        7.7       5.5       8.6        5.9
(1)-(3)                                          17.7       15.9      16.0      14.3       14.4
(2)-(3)                                           9.8       9.7       10.0       9.0        9.6



_  56  -                       ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
Operational Guidelines
For the Housing Refinance Facility
Objectives
1.        The main objective of the Housing Refinance Facility (HRF) is to
assist mainly low- and middle-income Papua New Guineans to obtain credit to
build or purchase their own dwelling. While the main focus is to provide
financing for National Housing Corporation (NHC) site beneficiaries, funds
will also be available to others outside NHC sites who are in conformance with
the credit guidelines set out herein.
2.        The HRF is operated by the Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) on behalf
of the Government.
3.        The HRF operates through the Participating Financial Institutions
(PFIs) at market determined interest rates. The HRF provides subloans to PFIs
for the refinancing of a portfolio package of eligible housing loans made by
the PFIs to eligible beneficiaries.
HRF Onlending Rates
4.        Subloans to PFIs shall be made in Kina at the prevailing discount
facility rate or at a rate equal to the Government's cost of borrowed funds
for the HRF plus 0.5 percent, whichever is higher; provided that the requests
for subloans meet the eligibility criteria set out in these Guidelines. The
interest payment for each subloan shall be calculated on the periodic
outstanding balance of such subloan.
5.        The PFIs housing loans shall be made at interest rates which reflect
market conditions, the cost of the refinanced funds to the PFI, and the spread
to cover the administrative cost and the credit risk borne by the PFI.
Terms and Amounts of Subloans
6.        Only housing loans with final maturities between 10 and 30 years
shall be eligible for refinancing.
7.        Subloans shall not exceed 75 percent of the amount of the refinanced
housing loans.
8.        Subloans shall have the same maturity term as the weighted average
maturity term of the housing loans being refinanced by such subloan, provided,
however, that such term shall not exceed 20 years.



-  57  -                       ANNEX 3
Page 2
9.        BPNG shall monitor the lprepayment experience of the PFIs' refinanced
liousing loans and shall, if necessary, adjust the tetm of the relevant subloan
accorditngly.
10.       BPNG shall debit, oni a periodic basis, the accounts of the PFIs with
the capl.tal repaymenits anid interest paymnents due on the subloans.
Eligibility Criteria for Huusing Loan Beneficiaries
11.       Only househiolds with annual gross incomiies of up to K 15,000, as
establislhed by the PFIs, shall be eligible.  This limit shiall be adjusted
annually based on the consumiier price index.
12.       Only beneficiaries who do not own another dwelling (except
traditional village dwellings) shall be eligible.
13.       Otily hotusinig loans for lidividual or multilple unit single-family-
owner-occupied dwellings shall be eligible.
14.       The IIRF is available to beneficiaries of NHC sites, whether the land
is freehold, alienated, leasehold or customary.  The IIRF is also available to
b)eneficiaries outside the NflC sites.
Approval of Stibloanis and Monitoring
15.       The PFI shall make a request for a subloan on the basis of a
detailed application fortm.  Each application form shall lnclude a
certificationl from the Managinig Director of the PFI stating that the housing
loans covered by the application meet the eligibility criteria set out in
these Guidelinies.
16.       The decisloni of BPNG on an applicatlont for a subloan shall be made
and conunuilcated to the PFI within three calendar weeks from the date of
submissioni of the application.  BPNG shall iiake the subloatn if the application
is fountd acceptable.
17.       Applications for subloans shall be made by the PFI not more often
than once a month.  The total package of loan portfolio presented for
refiniancinig at any onie time shall not be less thani K 200,000.  This amiiount
shall be reviewed by BrNG from Lime to time.
18.       BPNG shall monitor, on a quarterly basis, the operation of the HRF,
and, in partLicular, the lendinig criteria, including onlendlnlg rates of the
IIRF, and the fees being charged by the PFIs, to ensure that the objectives of
the IIRF are maintainied.
19.       If BPNG discovers discrepancies between the agreed and the actual
lending criteria of a PFI, the PFI concerned may be declared ineligible for
future subloans.  BPNG may also accelerate the repayment of the subloan
coLresponding to the ineligible housing loans.



-  58  -                         ANNEX 3
Page 3
Criteria for Participlatirng Fintancial Institutions
20.        Only finanicial institutions whichi have been found acceptable by the
Governmnent on  hlie basis of intetest in the selheme, financial soundness,
utaniagenielit capabilitles, organization and procedures, branching network, and
st.afilng, shall be eligible to participate in the HRF. Financial institutions
shlall also imleet tthe eliglbility criteria set out in the Attachuent to thtese
Cui(Jelilles.
21.        PFis shall be in compliance with all the monietary guidelinies of BPI4G
as issued from Lime Lo Limee.
22.        The maximwnttti amount of subloatis to any one PFI slhall not exceed
8B  1)eLceIlt of tlhe amouulnt available for onlenidinig in the IIRF.
23.        PFIs sliall provide audited financial statements and any ot her
Liriaiicial and porLtfollo information as requested by BPNG from time to time.
Otler Features of the HRF
24.        Given thlat one of thie objectives of the HRF is to use market
determined lnterest rates and niot to increase thie Govetninent's contingent
liabilitLies, the flome Loan Interest Subsidy Scheme (HLISS) and the Home Loan
Guarantee Scheme (HLGS) shall not applv under the flRF.
25.        Subloaris shall not finanice the cost of land.  Subloans shall finance
improvenments to lanid only if carLied out after Marclh 1, 1991.



- 59 -
Attachment
ELiGlBILITY CRITERIA FOR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
1.         Favorable standing with Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG), including
compliance wiLh all BPNG's monetary policy guidelines issued from time to
Limle.
2.         LiquidiLty levels acceptLble Lo BPNG.
3.         Asset comiposiiioin, portfolio quality and incotmie outlook acceptable
Lu BPNG.
4.         Level of paid in cap)ital anid reserves satisfactory to BPNG.
5.         Provisions for bad and doubtful loans saLisfactory to BPNG.
6.         Operating policies aind p)ocedures acceptable Lo BPNG.
7.         Adequate organiizationt with staffing and teclhlnical capacity and past
successful experience in moLtgage lending.
8.         Agreeimient to adopt the Housing Refinanciing Facility (HRF) Guidelines
andl to sign a PartLicipatling Agreement with BPNG.
9.         The continiuing eligibility of a Participating Financial InistiLution
shall be monitoLed by BPNG periodically.



-  60  -                        ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
NATIONAL HOUSING CORPORATION
Institutional Arrangements
I. Formation
A. Legal Basis
1.        The Act creating the National Housing Corporation (NHC) was passed
by Parliament in March 1990, establishing NHC as a statutory body and
abolishing its predecessor agencies: the National Housing Commission and the
Department of Housing (DOH). All assets and liabilities of the Commission,
land registered in the name of the Commission and DOH, and all contracts and
agreements made by the DOH were transferred to the NHC; all staff of the DOH
and the Commission became the staff of the NHC until the NHC made new
appointments under the Act. NHC is intended to be a financially self-
sufficient organization, operating along commercial lines, and following
certain cost recovery formulas set forth in the Act. The Act gives
considerable power to the Minister of Housing, and while the Corporation
would, like the Commission before it, be subject to Government policies, the
Act acknowledges the need for the NHC to be compensated for political
directives which are not economic.
B. Corporate Objectives
2.        NHC's objectives as set forth in the Act include the following:
(a) improve housing conditions, (b) provide rental housing, (c) sell houses,
(d) make advances (loans) for housing purposes, (e) develop land for human
settlement, (f) provide houses for sale or lease, and (g) provide associated
buildings. In addition, NHC can also: carry out or promote research; develop
and maintain housing projects; acquire and hire out equipment for the purpose
of home improvement; and make recommendations to the Minister or others on
human settlements matters.
II. Management and Organizational Structure
3.        NHC is governed by a Board of eight members, including the Managing
Director of the Corporation. The first Board was appointed July 27, 1990 by
the National Executive Council. (The names and affiliations of the members
are in the project file.) Terms of the members are determined by the Minister.
The Head of State may remove members from office, and may also direct the NHC
to perform on any matter of policy relating to its functions. The NHC may act
as an agent of the State in matters of government employee housing.
4.        NHC's current but not yet final organization structure is shown in
Chart 3. It depicts a functional organization consisting of three
directorates: Marketing and Corporate Development; Development Finance; and



-  61  -                        ANNEX 4
Page 2
Land Mobilization. The Corporation began with about 300 employees and is
planning to reduce staffing to about 200 employees over the next several
years. The Managing Director and three Directors make up the top management
team; two of these positions are under recruitment. The UNDP-financed Urban
Settlements Planning Project (USPP) is providing technical assistance through
the end of 1990 in the form of marketing, technical, financial and legal
specialists. Additional TA to strengthen NHC would be provided under the SIP.
III. Operational Policy and Approach
5.        The Corporation has already translated its establishment Act into a
detailed operational policy statement to guide its further organizational and
operational development. A copy of the current policy statement, which has
been approved in principle by the NHC Board, is in Annex 5. The final, NHC
Board approved version will be ready in early 1991.
6.        NHC plans to concentrate its attention and energy on producing new,
serviced sites on both customary and alienated land while allowing the
purchaser to decide whether and how to construct sanitary facilities and
structures on the plot. NHC intends to help these latter activities with
standard designs, kits and lists of capable contractors. If customer demand
requires it, NHC will do on-plot construction of structures.
7.        The Corporation's basic operating plan is to mobilize land and then
design and pre-sell sub-divisions before beginning expensive construction. It
also intends to utilize the commercial bank mortgaging scheme being put in
place under the SIP for all long term mortgage financing. Given the acute
shortage of housing that affects all but the most affluent segments of the
population in Port Moresby and some other cities and the scarcity of usable
land, NHC is developing certain multiple occupancy accommodations such as
hostels for single workers, condominium apartments, and townhouses. As is the
case with serviced sites, NHC is building for sale to individuals or companies
and will pre-sell before it develops and constructs properties. In the
future, NHC's current rental and mortgage servicing activities will wither
away as it completes the sale of its own and government's rental properties,
and future mortgages are handled by commercial banks.
8.        NHC's policy statement sets specific and appropriate objectives for
the financial performance of the Corporation and establishes policies and
procedures to ensure that due care and diligence is taken with respect to
GOPNG laws on environment, resettlement, as well as other social concerns.
IV. Capabilities and Performance
A. Capabilities for Attaining Immediate SIP Objectives
9.        NHC's contributions to attaining the immediate objectives of the
SIP--i.e., employment generation by creating new jobs in the local
construction industry--are the development and/or sale of serviced plots to
low and middle income families who will secure commercial bank mortgages
funded by the SIP financed Housing Refinance Facility which will, in most



-  62  -                        ANNEX 4
Page 3
instances, be used to construct housing on the newly purchased plot. (See
Chapter 3 of the SAR).
(i) Serviced Plot Supply
(a) Completed Plots in Inventory
10.       The Corporation inherited from its predecessor agency--DOH--an
unsold invencory of approAimately 1,500 serviced plots located throughout the
nation. These mostly 450 m2 plots were developed under the National Home
Ownership Scheme for sale to low and middle income feailies. NHC has made
good progress recently in its initial efforts to sell these plots. There is a
high probability that most of these plots will be sold during the SIP
disbursement period.
(b) Plots Under Development
11.       NHC also inherited the USPP scheme from the Department of Housing
for the development of approximately 3000 serviced plots at sizes as small as
150 m2 (and therefore affordable to very low income families). These new
plots may, in whole or part, be sold during the SIP disbursement period. They
are now at various stages of development at sites located in six PNG urban
areas: three on alienated land and three on customary land. A considerable
degree of complexity exists in PNG with regard to the mobilization,
development and conveyance of customary land. This makes it difficult to
predict the number of USPP plots that will be completed, sold and financed
with HRF mortgages during the short SIP disbursement period. Hence, only some
(700) of the USPP plots on alienated land are included in the project.
Detailed data on plot development is in the project file.
(ii) Housing Demand
12.       Annex 1 provides detailed information on the housing supply and
demand situation for low and middle income urban dwellers in PNG. Demand well
in excess of the existing finished inventory and new production during the
SIP's short disbursement period currently exists in the country. The anomaly
of demand existing along side of a sizeable inventory of completed plots is
mainly due to the lack of long-term mortgage finance and the irability of
families to save sufficient sum3 for downpayments. Recent national provident
fund decisions, and provident fund legislation in process, will permit
withdrawals from the benefit funds to be used as downpayments for housing
mortgages while the new, IBRD-supported HRF will make long-term housing
mortgages available to low and middle income families for the first time in
PNG.
(iii) NHC's Sales Capabilities
13.       NHC has a branch office in  ,ch Province with a total country-wide
staffing of approximately 200 branch empioyees.  While the traditional work of
branch staff in the formet National Housing Commission had been to collect
rents and mortgages and look after Commissiont properties, branch staff in NHC
also will take on responsibility for selling the Corporation's completed plot
inventory and new USPP proauction. NHC top management and other parts of
headquarters will provide policy and direction of the sales effort and have



-  63  -                        ANNEX 4
Page 4
assigned top priority to sales for the SIP disbursement period. The existing
selling capabilities and commitments of the Corporation would be augmented
with technical assistance provided through the SIP to help improve performance
in this vital function.
(iv) SIP Housing Component Size
14.       Taking the supply, demand, financing and selling situations into
account, it is estimated for the purpose of the SIP, that 1,000 of the 1,500
existing serviced plots can be sold during the SIP project period.
Additionally, new and pipeline NHC plot production and that of private
developers during the project period are expected to total 800 plots.
(Details on these estimates are in the project file.)
B. Capabilities for Attaining Longer-term SIP Objectives
(i) General
15.       The longer-term objective of the SIP is to build a sustainable
system of shelter delivery to low and middle-income, urban, families in PNG
utilizing the private sector to the greatest extent possible. Given the land
tenure culture in PNG, mobilizing lands for urban residential use is a task
that will likely have to be carried out by a government or quasi-government
institution at the start and for some future period, the duration of which can
not be readily predicted. As indicated above, the enabling legislation and
its designation of NHC as PNG's agency to fulfill the land mobilization
function for housing provides an appropriate starting framework for attaining
the longer-term SIP objectives.
16.       The second question is to what extent does the new NHC have the
capability to do what is asked of it, what gaps exist in NHC's institutional
capabilities and what actions,in what time frame, are needed to fill the gaps.
The necessity fe~r speed in preparing and appraising a project of the nature of
an SIP, and the fact that this project will be the IBRD's first housing sector
operation in PNG, limits the amount of detail and certainty of information and
understanding about the capabilities, strengths and weakness, and past and
probable future performance of the National Housing Corporation that has been
developed to dat_.. What is presented below therefore is preliminary and
tentative.
(ii) NHC's Institutional Strengths and Weaknesses
(a) Sector Knowledge and Experience
17.       NHC starts its institutional life with a management team experienced
in housing, several of whom, working together on a task force with others,
have just carefully studied the housing situation in the country; developed a
comprehensive plan and approach for alleviating PNG's housing shortage; and
obtained the approval of the National Executive Council for the "National
Integrated Shelter Development Plan." The Managing Director is experienced in
the field of shelter development. However, the team has only now begun to
acquire experience in selling land.



-  64  -                        ANNEX 4
Page 5
(b) Basic Financial and Property Records
18.       NHC has a fairly detailed set of basic financial records and the
ability to generate financial and accounting reports. However, the extent to
which these records are accurate and auditable is not yet known. It is
possible that adequate financial records on borrower and renter accounts exist
in NHC's branch offices and simply need to be brought together in headquarters
in the form of actionable management information for planning and decision
making purposes. NHC's inherited physical property records are considered to
be seri^us'y deficient and an effort is underway to create a central physical
property data base at headquarters. The end of 1990 has been established as
the completion date for this exercise but it may take longer.
(c) Collections and Arrears
19.       Without a reliable set of accounting and physical property records,
NHC's management is uncertain as to exactly how much is currently due the
Corporation in rent and mortgage payments, and just what the arrears situation
and collection potential really are. A consensus estimate is that the
Corporation is collecting about one-half of its current rent receivables and
eighty percent of its mortgage receivables. Rents due are estimated at about
K 6 M annually and mortgage interest due is about one-half million Kina
annually. NHC has sufficient numbers of staff positioned geographically close
to its clients to do an adequate job of collecting, all other things being
equal. What the impediments are to better collections--adequate records,
staff training, motivation and willpower, greater management attention, etc.--
are currently being studied.
20.       Looking to the future, it is clear, however, that capability and
performance in collecting rent and mortgage payments are not the keys to the
Corporation's future effectiveness under the sustainable housing development
and finance system being supported by the IBRD financed SIP and by
Government's housing policies. Within this system, NHC plays the role of a
land mobilizer and developer only. As indicated in its draft policy statement
it would not build and own houses for rental purposes, nor would it originate,
fund and service mortgages. As time passes, the Corporation's portfolio of
rental properties will be converted to mortgages through sales to current
tenants; then the mortgage portfolio will in turn begin to diminish in size
over the years until it disappears. Under these circumstances careful thought
has to be given to the costibenefit ratio of any investments in staffing,
computing, data base development, systems development, and the like related to
improvements in mortgage and rent collections.
21.       Work is currently underway by a local consulting firm financed by
the USPP to study NHC's accounting, collections and financial management
systems. Within the limited time available under the USPP, the consultants
will also take such actions as possible to strengthen the existing financial
operation and prepare a program of further strengthening actions.
Subsequently this program will be advanced under the technical assistance
provided by the SIP.



-  65  -                        ANNEX 4
Page 6
(d) Finance
22.       The historical financial statements for the Commission are shown
below in Tables 1 and 2. The ending 1989 Commission Balance Sheet became the
opening Balance Sheet for the National Housing Corporation.
23.       The Corporation inherited a negative net worth of approximately K 15
M from the Commission which was automatically included in NHC's opening
accounts. Also carried over to NHC's books is a Government loan of K 18.4 M
made to the Commission about ten years ago for which the interest and
principal payments have neither been paid nor recognized on the Commission's
books as current liabilities. In addition, some K 20 M in current liabilities
and advances were carried over from the Commission. However, it should be
remembered that the foregoing is based on incomplete or inaccurate records and
is not definitive.
24.       Over the past two years a new finance manager has made considerable
progress in straightening out the Commission's accounting records and this
effort is being accelerated within the NHC ihrough TA provided under the USPP.
During appraisal, a financial planning and projections model was developed for
NHC to aid in restructuring NHC's finances by taking into account likely
future activities. Using this model as a means of developing an
understandable and common approach to NHC's future, constructive meetings were
held between the Department of Finance and Planning (DFP) and NHC to discuss
the restructuring of NHC's finances. These discussions revealed that much of
the current liabilities result from uncleared Government advances that were
not intended for repayment and can be cleared administratively.
25.       Agreement has been reached between NHC and DFP on the restructuring
of NHC's balance sheet. (Records of the discussions and agreements reached
are in the project file.) Total current liabilities have been reduced to K
7.7 M, mainly by clearing old accounts. Approximately K 6.4 M is owed to
various Government accounts and will be paid by the end of 1992. Government
hr agreed to forgive all prior interest on the K 18.4 M loan in recognition
that much of this loan was intended for the creation of assets that accrued to
Government accounts rather than the Commission. NHC has agreed to begin
servicing interest and principal on a current basis in 1993 at the original
interest rate and to repay the principal over a 10 year period. And
Government has agreed to contribute the planned 1991 budget of K 2.5 M for the
Department of Housing to NHC as the final operating subsidy to NHC. NHC's
ability to make future payments to Government is based on future operations
mainly made possible by the establishment of the Housing Refinancing Facility
under the SIP.



-  66  -                        ANNEX 4
Page 7
Table 1: BALANCE SHEETS--1983-89
(Kina 000)
1983 : 1984   1985 : 1986   1987 :  1988 : '989*
-- - -  - -- - - -   : --- --- - - --   -- --   - - --   -- --   -- - -   -- - -
:CURRENT ASSETS            :          :          :
Cash                -237 :-1049 : 153 :-2567 : 210:   448:            0:
:S-T Invest.             0:    0:    0:    0:    0             0:   700:
Accts Recv.       :      :       :      :
Mortgages        : 522 : 735 : 396 : 234    424 :   448 :   288
Rentals          : 1759 : 2041 : 1225   1232 : 1151 : 1172 : 1581
Misc.              1183 : 1191 : 1250 : 1799 : 1553 : 1639 : 2067
:-                          --          - :… :… :-                -
:         Subtotal : 3227 : 2918 : 3024 : 698 : 3338 : 3708 : 4637
:NON-CURRENT ASSETS:
: Work-In-Prog.     : 871 : 1525 : 550 : 197 : 187 :   397 :   800
: Adm Prop (net)   : 3514 : 3855 : 3660 : 3657 : 3540 : 2382 : 1778
: Mortgages         : 5643   3864 : 3682 : 4302   1714 : 1619 : 1549
: Rental Prop(net) :19160 :19532 :19254 :18823 :17135 : 16838 : 16125
---…--- :-              -   :-    :      :      :       :       :
:        Sub Total :29188 :28776 :27146 :26979 :22576 : 21236 : 20252
:TOTAL ASSETS       :32415 :31694 :30170 :27677 :25914 : 24944 : 24889
==========…======-===   ======   ======:===…=
LIABILITIES            :
:CURRENT            :      :      :
Accts Pay        : 6371 : 5914 : 6914 : 6806 : 7100    7715 : 6507
GOPNG Lns        :    0:    0 :    0 :    0 :    0:         0:       0:
Bank Lns         :349 :385 : 406 : 406 :  711:   837:   882:
Benfit Lns       :    0:   33 :   25 :   28 :   32:    36:    40:
Misc.            :2125 :2780: 3291 :4472 :4876:  5639:               0:
ST Loans         :    0:    0 :    0 :    0:    0:          0:   273:
_______…__… ------    ------    ______    ______    __   :… :…
-        Sub Total : 8845 : 9112 :10636 :11712 :12719 : 14227 :  7702
:LONG TERM          :      :       :      :
- GOPNG Lns         :18356 :18356 :18356 :18356 :18356 : 18356 : 18356
- Bank Lns          : 3832 : 3447 : 3041 : 2817 : 2065 : 1612 :   978
- Benfit Lns        : 530 : 523 : 498 : 469 : 438:   402:   362:
: Misc.             .    0:    0 :    0 :    0 :    0:         0:   400:
--……-------------- ----…:------:------:  :----  :-       :      :-       :
:        Sub Total :22718 :22326 :21895 :21642 :20859 : 20370 : 20096
:      TOTAL LIAB. :31563 :31438 :32531 :33354 :33578 : 34597 : 27798
:EQUITY             :      :       :      :      :       :
Paid-in           : 1086 : 1086 : 1086 : 1086 : 1086 : 1086 : 1086
Retained          : -234 : -830 :-3447 :-6763 :-8750 :-10739 : -3996
-- - -- - - ------    ---:-  ------ :--- -- :------ :- - -   -- - -   -- - -
:TOTAL EQUITY       : 852 : 256 :-2361 :-5677 :-7664 : -9653 : -2909
:TOTAL EQ & LIAB   :32415 :31694 :30170 :27677 :25914 : 24944 : 24889
:*NOTE: The 1989 figures have been adjusted to reflect NHC/DFP
agreements on the restructuring of NHC's finances.



-  67  -                      ANNEX 4
Page 8
Table 2: INCOME STATEMENTS--1983-89
(Kina 000)
1983   1984   1985 : 1986   1987 : 1988 : 1989
-- - - -- ------  ------  -----:  -- --  -- --  ----    --:--  -------:  
:REVENUES          :      :
Mortgage Int.       356 : 435 : 404 : 377 : 350 :  473 :  493
Rental Income    : 3586 : 3903 : 3857 s 3693 : 3857 : 3777 : 3444
Profit on Sales  : 387    475 : 930    373    223 :  670 :  374
:Fees              :150:  202:  212:  286:  524:   416:   341:
S-T Interest        134 :  42 :   1 :  39 :   8 :    9            26
:Misc Income           34:   95:  107:  103:  932:    62:  1742:
- Less Prov DD   : -111 :  -5 :-1247 : -358 : -264    -563 : -588
:NET REVENUE       : 4536 : 5147 : 4264 : 4513 : 5630 : 4844 : 5832
:EXPENDITURES:     :      :
…- -…-            :      :-                           -- -…-… --:
Personnel        : 3813 : 3539 : 4405 : 4075 : 4359 : 3427 : 2977
Other Adm Exps   : 1749 : 1659 : 1777 : 2927 : 2069 : 2241 : 2439
Depreciation     : 692 : 713 : 651 : 640 : 679 :  705 :  688
-Less Cap't     : -726 : -758 : -596 : -364 :   0 :    0 :    0
-- - -- - -- - --   - - --   - ----   - - --   -- --   -- --   -- - -   --- --
:   Sub Ops Costs : 5528 : 5153 : 6237 : 7278 : 7107 : 6373 : 6104
Fin. Charges     : 614 : 589 : 645 : 551 : 511 :  461 :  320
:TOTAL EXPENSES    : 6142 : 5742 : 6882 : 7829 : 7618 : 6834 : 6424
:NET PROFIT        :-1606 : -595 :-2618 :-3316 :-1988 : -1989 : -592
(e) Land Development
26.       The opening NHC balance sheet shows approximately K 0.8 M in
Work-in-Progress which should include work currently underway to produce new,
affordable, serviced sites (developed under the USPP) along with sites
previously completed but for a variety of reasons still unsold. It is
probable that the Work-in-Progress asset account is understated in that
properties inherited from the DOH have yet to be valued and incorporated into
the Corporation's balance sheet.
27.       NHC has a limited technical capacity to design, contract for and
supervise the development of new sites. It is being strengthened under the
USPP but more will have to be done under the SIP.
(f) New Product Development
28.      An important positive aspect of NHC is the work it is continuing to
mobilize customary land for residential housing. With the help of a customary
land expert financed by the UNDP, NHC has worked out contractual arrangements
that hold the promise of: (a) satisfying the concerns of customary land



-  68  -                        ANNEX 4
Page 9
owners; (b) enduring for, and perhaps beyond, the original 35 year lease
period; and, (c) satisfying the loan security requirements of mortgage
bankers. This concern for, and creative attention to, the needs of its three
main "customers'--customary land owners, shelter purchasers and the mortgage
banks--bodes well for the development of NHC into an effective organization.
(g) Marketing
29.       NHC's predecessor agencies operated with a bureaucratic/
administrative culture which is the history and experience most current NHC
employees have brought with them to the NHC. The Corporation therefore lacks
the institutional capability and culture required of a financially autonomous,
market responsive land developer serving lower income citizens of the country.
Although as mentioned above, NHC now has technical capacity to design,
contract for and supervise the development of new sites and the ability to
collect funds and keep its accounts, there is a critical shortage of marketing
capabilities among the staff.
30.       It is important to recognize that in the context of NHC a clear
distinction needs to be made between what is meant by "selling' and
"marketing." For example, the existing serviced plots and those being built
under the USPP must now be 'sold,' and in our judgement, NHC has the minimum
institutional capability required to sell these plots over the next several
years. "Marketing," as the term is being used, embraces a much broader range
of activities including identifying future development sites, products,
clients (including customary land owners, mortgage investors, purchasers,
local governments and more), designing settlements, negotiating agreements,
pre-selling, etc. Although some additional time must past before NHC can
decide and give concrete expression to the way it will organize and operate in
the future, it is likely that it will adopt an organizational design focused
on its current and future clients rather than continue the bureaucratic/
functional format it inherited from its predecessors.
(h) Computing and Other Services
31.       NHC inherited a functioning computer, a staff capable of operating
it and relations with local vendors to take care of equipment and software
breakdowns. The Corporation's main computer may, however, be at, or close to,
the point of needing upgrading, reconfiguration, or replacement. With the
assistance being provided through the USPP, work is underway to strengthen
NHC's accounting records, collections, property records, computing
requirements and related matters along with developing a program for
additional effort to the extent it is needed. This initial work, scheduled
for completion by end 1990, is anticipated to require continuation with SIP
provided funding. The Corporation's inherited personnel management system,
administrative rules and procedures, planning, programming and budgeting
methods, operational systems and information flows, and the like are unsuited
to the operating needs of a self-financing, entrepreneurial organization and
will have to be reformulated for the "new" NHC.



-  69  -                       ANNEX 4
Page 10
C. Institutional Strengthening Program
32.       During the July and September Missions, considerable progress was
made in identifying the future organizational development policy and direction
for the Corporation and developing a program of Technical Assistance to assist
the NHC management strengthen performance. Nevertheless this ;rork has not yet
been completed and cannot be completed for several more months.
33.       The preliminary estimate of the cost )f the technical assistance
program is approximately $2 M. The UNDP has inuicated its willingness to
serve as the executing agency. A detailed action plan for implementation of
the program is shown in pages 18/19 and draft terms of reference for some
parts of the program are in the project file. The program will provide
assistance to all major activities of the Corporation and also fund a number
of studies required to develop further understanding about the housing sector
in PNG and the possibilities and actions to take to provide affordable shelter
to low-income families. Some of the components of this program are summarized
below:
(a) ACCOUNTING AND COLLECTIONS: Approximately two years of consulting
effort and the computerization of all or part of NHC's Branch
Offices if NHC's realistic rent, mortgage collection, and sales
results from its Branch staff are judged to be positive. Continued
strengthening of NHC central management accounting and control
system and operations with approximately two years of consulting
effort.
(b) CUSTOMARY LAND MOBILIZATION: Extending the TA started under the
USPP for an additional 10 months of legal advice spread over the
next two years.
(c) TECHNICAL QUALITY: Improving the technical capabilities of the
NHC's Land Development unit in its site design and engineering work.
Twelve months of effort over two years plus staff training at short
term courses.
(d) MARKETING AND BUSINESS PLANNING: To succeed, NHC needs to transform
itself from a bureaucracy to an entrepreneurial, business and market
oriented Corporation. Such a transformation must penetrate the
entire corporation and show up in the reality of every day action
throughout NHC. To accomplish the transformation, workshops for NHC
staff would be designed and given by a process consultant with
experience in land development and commercial operations.
Additional operational systems, procedures and management reporting
systems would be developed and installed.
(e) HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT: Six months of consultant effort and
computer software to develop basic employee records, a job
classification and compensation scheme and career development and
training programs for the staff of the NHC.



-  70  -                         ANNEX 4
Page 11
(f) STUDIES:
(i) NHC needs to develop a firm understanding of the demographic,
economic, social and structural forces which affect the
development and provision of affordable shelter to low income
families throughout its large and diverse culture. About 24
months of effort would be specified as part of the TA program.
(ii) Housing construction costs are extraordinarily high in PNG. To
address the causes of high costs, and develop means of reducing
them to increase the supply of housing affordable to low income
families, a major study of this area would be conducted under
the project.
(iii)  Feasibilities studies to design a follow-on project of
assistance to the PNG housing sector.
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
I. Introduction
34.       When NHC was formed through the merger of the National Housing
Commission and the Department of Housing, the Commission, being both the
larger of the two former units and a statutory body with its own assets and
liabilities, furmed the financial nucleus of the new NHC. As indicated
previously (See paragraphs 22-26 and Tables 1 and 2 above), NHC inherited a
poor financial situation from the former National Housing Commission, not only
in the condition of its basic financial and property records but also with
respect to the financial soundness of the new Corporation. As such, NHC
started its life technically in bankruptcy, but with assurances from
Government that its finances would be restructured through a combination of
new capital and forgiveness of debt carried on NHC's books as owed to the
Covernment.
35.       Discussions during the appraisal mission revealed that up to
two-thirds of the Commission's miscellaneous current liabilities and all of
its long term advances resulted from unclosed balances of funds advanced to
the Commission to create assets for Government which did not appear on the
Commission's Balance Sheet. It was agreed during the mission that such
balances would be closed and removed from the Corporation's Balance Sheet by
administrative action. As to the Government loan to the Commission which NHC
inherited, agreement was reached with DFP that the National Housing
Corporation would begin servicing the loan as soon as it had a sufficient cash
flow to do so and attempt to pay it off within a twenty year period.
Government on its part would forgive all interest on the loan up to the time
the Corporation's cash flow allowed debt service to begin and provide NHC with
the amount of funds budgeted for the DOH for fiscal years 1990 and 1991.



-  71  -                        ANNEX 4
Page 12
II. Future Performance
36.       It needs to be remembered that NHC's financial records are not in
good shape and neither its opening balance sheet nor the historical financial
records of the Commission can be regarded as reliable. For the financial
projections shown below, an adjusted opening balance sheet for NHC which
reflects the agreements reached between NHC and DFP has been used. As the
Corporation's financial records are brought to an adequate condition, further
adjustments will doubtless be required in NHC's accounts. Similarly, the
restructuring agreement reached with DFP may also have to be adjusted if
further changes in NHC's assets and liabilities are necessary. Finally the
financial analysis of the Corporation and its future prospects as shown below
are for these reasons quite tentative.
A. First Year of Operations
37.       NHC inherited a flow of cash receipts estimated at approximately
K 12 M in 1990 including rents, mortgage interest, cash generated from
property sales, fees and a government contribution of K 3.8 M--the budget
previously appropriated for the DOH. NHC's cash outlays in 1990 are estimated
at K 11.6 M including K 8 M in salaries and administrative expenses, K 2.3 M
in Works-in-Progress investments; and K 1.6 M in debt service. NHC will end
the year with about K 0.3 M in cash. NHC is expected to make a profit of
about K 0.5 M in 1990.
B. Planning Assumptions
38.       Tables 3, 4 and 5 below present the projected balance sheets, income
statements and cash flow statements for NHC from 1990 through 1996. These
projections are based upon operational assumptions developed collaboratively
with NHC during the appraisal mission. The key assumptions are: (a) the IBRD
financed Housing Refinance Facility will be opened around January 1, 1991;
(b) benefit funds will allow their members to make withdrawals for
downpayments on housing; (c) the availability of downpayments and long-term
mortgage finance enables NHC to sell significant portions of its existing
inventories and work in progress; and (d) the vast majority of NHC's future
clients obtain mortgages thereby enabling the Corporation to be paid in full
for 90 percent or more of the plots it sells.
39.       Other important assumptions used in developing these projections
include:
cash generated from the disposal of NHC's completed plot inventory
over the next two years will help provide the additional cash needed
to complete the USSP sites, reduce current liabilities and build
cash reserves;
*    Government provides NHC with K 2.5 M in 1991 representing the prior
budget for the DOH;
*    NHC pays off its current liabilities to Government by the end of
1992 and begins servicing interest (at the original contractual rate
of 7 percent) and principal on the K 18.4 M Government loan in 1993
and pays off this loan over 10 a ten year period;



-  72  -                        ANNEX 4
Page 13
*    collection efficiency increases only gradually on NHC's rental
properties--from 50 percent in 1990 to 75 percent in 1995 in
5 percent increments and that NHC continues to convert rental
properties to mortgages so that th--e are no more rentals by 1996;
*    collection efficiency on NHC's mortgages increases gradually from
80% in 1990 to 90Z in 1993 and stays at that level throughout the
projection period; and
*    agent fees earned from the sale and management of "government-owned-
houses" plus other miscellaneous fees will generate K 1.5 M in 1990
and K 1.7 M a year thereafter compared to K 2.1 M earned in 1989 by
the Commission.
C. Production and Sales Assumptions
40.       Development investments for the years 1990 through 1992 are taken
from NHC's current site development schedules. Development investments will
grow from K 4 M in 1993 to K 8 M in 1996. Sales from new plot production are
set to lag construction by about 12 months for the first two years thereby
allowing time for the National Housing Corporation to master its policy of
pre-selling before construction. In the third year, sales catch up with
production and thereafter no unsold inventory is accumulated. (Note that it
is this sales "lag(catch-up" phenomenon that produces the peak of profits and
cash in 1993.) The detailed set of assumptions used in the financial
projections is in the project file.
D. Financial Results
41.       Based on the assumptions mentioned above which are considered
reasonably likely, the Corporation makes a profit in 1990 of about K 0.5 H
which grows significantly thereafter. NHC's negative net worth turns positive
in 1992 and continues to grow thereafter. It also remains liquid throughout
the period and is able to pay off its short term borrowings and current
liabilities, service all debt including the old GOPNG loan and fund its new
construction program without adding new external borrowings.
42.       It should be noted that these favorable results occur mainly after
the SIP project period and do not include the substantial amount of taxes and
dividends a profitable National Housing Corporation would be required to pay
Government.



-73                              ANNEX 4
Page 14
Table 3: PNG - NATIONAL HOUSING CORPORATION
BALANCE SHEET PROJECTION (KINA 000)
ASSETS
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Cash                           250      272      273      297     307      349   1,761
Short Term Investment             0       0   2,400   3,600   6,350   8,400  10,000
A/C Recv-Mortgages             475      850   1,149   1,339   1,573   1,891   1,915
A/C Recv- Rentals            4,098   4,475   3,745   2,652   1,599         750        0
A/C Recv- Miscellaneous    2,067   3,067   4,067   4,067   4,067   4,067   4,067
Total Current Assets         6,890   8,664  11,634  11,956  13,897  15,457  17,743
Works in Progress:           2,088   3,362         0        0        0        0       0
Admin Buildings, Eq,F&F,   1,778   1,778   1,778   1,778   1,778   1,778   1,778
Mortgages                    3,662   7,032   9,763  11,617  13,646  16,471  16,140
Rental Properties (net)   13,868  11,311   8,702   6,062   3,436             0        0
-Less Provisions for D.D    423        825   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200
Net Value all LT Assets   20,974  22,658  19,044  18,258  17,661  17,049  16,719
Total Assets                27,864  31,323  30,678  30,214  31,558  32,507  34,462
LIABILITIES
A/C Pay-GOPNG Loans               0       0        0        0        0       0        0
A/C Pay-Banks                  274      239      223      242        0       0        0
A/C Pay-Benefit Funds            29      27       25       23       21      19       18
A/C Pay-Miscellaneous        6,407   4,707         0        0        0        0       0
A/C Pay-St Loans                  0       0        0        0        0       0        0
Subtotal Curr.Liabilities  6,710   4,974    2,48          265      21       20       18
Lt Debt GOPNG Loans         18,356  18,356  18,356  16,520  14,538  12,357  10,504
Lt Debt-Banks                  704      465      242        0        0       0        0
Lt Debt-Benefit Funds          333      306      282      259     239      220      202
Lt Advances                    400      400      400      400     400      400      400
Total Liabilities           26,503  24,501  19,528  17,444  15,198  12,996  11,124
State Equity Paid-in         1,086   1,086   1,086   1,086   1,086   1,086   1,086
Govt't Contribution          3,800   6,300   6,300   6,300   6,300   6,300   6,300
Retained Earnings           -3,525    -564   3,765   5,383   8,974  12,125  15,953
Total Equity and Surplus   1,361   6,822  11,151  12,769  16,360  19,511  23,339
Total Equity and Liab.    27,864  31,323  30,678  30,214  31,558  32,507  34,462



-  74   -                        ANNEX 4
Page 15
Table 4:  PNG - NATIONAL HOUSING CORPORATION
PROFIT AND LOSS PROJECTION  (KINA 000)
Revenues                      1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Interest-Mortgages             428      860   1,357   1,731   2,042   2,433   2,650
Rental Income                6,615   5,847   4,887   3,831   2,679   1,399           0
Interest-S.T. Invest.           70        0      120     378      542      844   1,072
Profit on Sales                660   2,476   3,752   2,390   3,278   3,023   2,260
Fees                         1,500   1,700   1,700   1,700   1,700   1,700   1,700
Total Revenue                9,273  10,883  11,815  10,030  10,242   9,398   7,682
Less Prov Doubt Debts         423      402      375        0       0        0        0
Net Revenue                  8,851  10,480  11,441  10,030  10,242   9,398   7,682
Expenditures:
Salaries&Other Adm Exps.   8,000   7,700   7,500   7,250   6,000   6,000   4,000
Depr. Rental Property          517      457      382     299      209      109        0
-Less Cap'lzd Adm Costs       293      809      901     520      780      910   1,040
Net Operating Costs          8,224   7,348   6,981   7,029   5,429   5,199   2,960
Gross Profit                   627   3,132   4,460   3,001   4,812   4,199   4,722
Fin Chges-GOPNG Lonas            0        0        0   1,285   1,156   1,018        865
Fin Chges-Bank Loans           242      127       92       60      31        0        0
Fin CHges-Ben Fund Loans        48       43       40       37      34       31       29
Fin Chges-St Loans              21        0        0        0       0        0        0
Total Financial Charges        311      171      132   1,382   1,222   1,049        894
-Less Cap'lzd Charges         154        0        0        0       0        0        0
Net Interest Expensed          157      171      132   1,382   1,222   1,049        894
Net Profit                     470   2,962   4,328   1,619   3,591   3,150   3,828
43.       On the expense side, NHC is affected primarily by staff salaries and
these in turn are dominated by rental collection operations, operations which
the NHC is shedding over the next number of years. The projections assume
that salaries and related expenses will decrease only gradually during the
project period as NHC concentrates on the liquidation of its unsold inventory
and increases its rental and mortgage collections rates. However once these
priority matters (the sale of government owned rental properties to tenants is
a well established policy in PNG) are taken care of, administrative expenses
are expected to drop sharply, particularly as the labor intensive portfolio of
rental houses is sold off. According to the recent and existing rate of sale
to tenants, it is expected that all rental properties will be sold (through
mortgages held by NHC) by the end of 1994. Total administrative costs after
the capitalization of project related expenses decrease from just over K 8 M
in 1990 to just under K 3 M in 1996, the latter figure influenced both by



-  75  -                        ANNEX 4
Page 16
reduced staff and the increased capitalization generated by a growing site
development program.  Although it is not taken into account, it is possible
that at some future time, the commercial banks may become willing to provide
mortgages on rental houses sold to tenants and thereby liquefy NHC's balance
sheet at a faster rate than shown in the projections.
Table 5: PNG - NATIONAL HOUSING CORPORATION
CASH FLOW PROJECTION  (KINA 000)
Cash Receipts                1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Opening Balance                 0      250     272      273     297      307     349
Collections:
Mortgages                   573   1,121   1,942   2,592   3,044   3,606   4,087
Short Term Investments       770        0     120   2,778   4,142   7,194   9,472
Rental income              4,098   5,470   5,618   4,925   3,732   2,249        750
Csh Generated From Sales  1,364   6,327  13,558   6,345   9,211   9,943  10,170
New Long Term Borrowings        0        0       0        0       0        0       0
New Short Term Borrowings   (273)        0       0        0       0        0       0
Government Contribution    3,800   2,500         0        0       0        0       0
Fees                        1,500   1,700   1,700   1,700   1,700   1,703   1,700
Total Cash Receipts        11,832  17,368  23,209  18,612  22,125  24,999  26,527
Cash Payments
__ _.._________
Site Development            2,250   6,223   6,931   4,000   6,000   7,000   8,000
Short Term Investments          0        0   2,400   3,600   6,350   8,400  10,000
Salaries & Adm Expenses    8,000   7,700   7,500   7,250   6,000   6,000   4,000
Debt Serv-GOPNG Loans           0        0       0   3,121   3,139   3,198   2,719
Debt Serv-Bank Loans        1,124      401     331      283     273        0       0
Debt Serv-Ben Fund Loans       88       72      67       61      56       52      48
Other Cash Payments           121   2,700   5,707         0       0        0       0
Total Cash Payments        11,583  17,096  22,936  18,315  21,818  24,650  24,766
== = == = == = == = = ==  ===  ====    ====     =====   =   ==   ====    = ===
Closing Balance               250      272     273      297     307      349   1,761
44.       At the current state of knowledge about NHC's current financial
situation and its future performance prospects, these projections are only
generally indicative of future directions and relationships.  They do,
however, demonstrate quite clearly that the Corporation has substantial room
for making the kinds of mistakes a new organization is likely to make--indeed,
needs to make to learn a new approach. Should shortfalls in revenues below
the reasonably conservative ones used occur and use up NHC's cash cushion, its
improved financial structure should enable NHC to borrow short-term
construction funds to continue its site development efforts while making
necessary adjustments in policy and/or operations.
45.       Over the longer term, once its need to collect rent, and then to
collect on mortgages, diminishes in scale, NHC's performance is entirely
dependent upon its ability to mobilize land, develop it and sell it on a



-  76  -                       ANNEX 4
Page 17
timely and profitable basis. The Corporation's commitment to pre-sell plots
is the key to its expected sound performance. Should economic conditions
temporarily limit the ability to sell new properties, NHC is in a position to
wait until the economy strengthens without suffering serious financial
difficulties.



-  77   -                       ANNEX 4
Page 18
National Housing Corporation
Institutional Strengtlhening
Action Plan
Target Dates
GOPNG
ltem Description                                    Start    End        Review
1.0 Business Plaiining antd Marketing
1.1 Finalize draft TOR                             11/90    12/90        01/91
1.2 Obtain Board Approval                                    02/91
1.3 Hlire Consultanit                              01/91    02/91        03/91
1.4 Staged Implementation                          03/91    02/93      Periodic
2.0 Property Register Development and
Installation
2.1 Prepare TOR                                     10(90    10/90       10/90
2.2 Obtain Boardl Approval                                   10/90
2.3 [lire Consultant                                         12/90
2.4 Staged Implementationi                         12/90    03/91    2/91, 5/91
3.0 Management Infuormation Systeii
3.1 Prepare TOR                                              04/91       G4/91
3.2 Obtain Boar(d Approval                                   05/91
3.3 Call Tenders                                             05/91
3.4 Select Conisultantt                                      07/91       07/S1
3.5 Oblain Board Approval                                    09/91
3.6 Staged Implemiienitationi                      08/91    12/92      Periodic
4.0 Marketing Research Studies
4.1 Prepare Draft TOR                              03/91    03/91        03/91
4.2 Consultant Selection                                     04/91       04/91
4.3 Obtaini Board Approval                                   05/91
4.4 Appoint Consultant                                       06/91
4.5 Staged Implementation                          06/91    06/93      Periodic
5.0 Financial and Accounting System
Development/Installation
5.1 Fina.lize TOR                                  12/90    01/91        02/91
5.2 Conisultanit Selection                         02/91    03/91
5.3 Obtain Board Approval                                    03/91
5.4 Hire ConsuJtant                                          03/91       03/91
5.5 Staged lmplementation                         04/91    03/93      Periodic



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Page 19
Target Dates
GOPNG
ltemt Descipt.ioun                                  Start    End         Review
6.0 Manpower Audit
6.1 Prepare TOR                                     10/90    10/90
6.2 Obtain Boatd Approval                                     10/90
6.4 Staged1 impletinetiLation                       12/90    02/91        02/91
7.U Institutlonal anrd Manpower Development
and Training
7.1 Prepare TOR                                     12/90    01/90        02/91
7.2 Obtain Boartd Approval                                    10/90
7.3 Conisultanit Selection                                    02/91       02/91
7.4 SLaged Implementation                           02/91    04/93      Periodic
8.0 Personal Computer Software and Hardware
8.1 erepare TOR                                     11/90    11/90
8.2 Olbtain Quotationi                                        11/90
8.3 Appoint Consultant                                        02/91       02/91
8.4 Staged Implementalion                           02/91    06/93      Periodic
9.0 Customary Lard llobilization:
Legal Advisory Services
9.1 Amenid Current TOR                              02/91    02/91        02/91
9.2 Conlsultant Selection                           03/91    03/91
9.3 Obtain Board Approval                           03/91    03/91
9.4 Staged lmplemenLtationi                         04/91    01/92      Periodic
10.0 Technical QualiLy lmprovement
10.1 DrafL TOR                                       03/91    04/91        04(91
10.2 Consultanit Selection                                     05/91
10.3 OUbtain Board Approval                                    05/91
10. 4 SLaged ImtplemenLation                         06/91    06/93      Periodic
11.0 Housinig Designi Solutionis Studies
11.1 Draft TOR                                       02/91    03/91        03/91
11.2 Consultant Selectioni                                     04/91       04/91
11.3 Staged Implement-aLion                          05/91    05/93      Periodic
12.0 Feasibility Studv
12.1 Draft TOR                                       01/9Z    01/92        01/92
12.1 St.aged Implementation                          02/92    02/93      Periodic
Notes:  Major reviews of the progress of this program will be carried out at
least semi-anntiually by the World Bank.



- 79 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
National Housing Corporation
Draft Operational Policy Statement
I. Objective
1.        The National Housing Corporation (NHC) produces shelter for families
who would not otherwise have access to the kinds of living accommodations they
would both desire and afford. It operates as a market responsive, financially
autonomous shelter Droducer. NHC intends to produce with its own resources
shelter for sale to occupants, or in certain cases, to organizations. NHC
does not normally rent the properties it produces nor does it normally finance
mortgages. Until existing stock is depleted, NHC will continue to sell its
o;n rental houses to existing tenants, and as an agent for Government, sell
Government houses to existing tenants, with the payment for such tenant
purchases made over a long-term period. Any rental accommodation administered
by NHC is provided at economic rents determined according to Schedule 2 of the
National Housing Act (see below).
II. General Policies
Target Beneficiary Group
2.        NHC will serve families whose total family income falls between
approximately one-half the Urban Minimum Wage and the equivalent of the Public
Service Level 4 pay rate. This target group is further divided into four
subgroups of:
*    incomes up to K 1,500 per annum;
*    incomes between K 1,500  and Urban Minimum Wage (UMW) (K 3,000 in
1990);
*    incomes between UMW and equivalent of income level CC7 in the Public
Service (K 8,000 In 1990);
*    incomes between the equivalent of CC7 and Level 4 in the Public
Service (K 15,000 in 1990).
Shelter production will be made available in proportion to the numbers of
families in each target subgroup.
Financial Self-Sufficiency
3.        Government is providing operating subsidies for NHC's initial two
years of operations. Thereafter, NHC will operate on a fully "self-
sufficient" financial basis without Government subsidies. While it will not



-  80  -                        ANNEX 5
Page 2
seek profit for the "sake of profit", NHC will price its properties and
services so as to be financially viable, including: ensuring the full
recovery of all direct and indirect costs; maintaining adequate levels of
liquidity, interest/debt service coverage, and reserves for losses; preserving
its capital base against inflation, and increasing its capital base to meet
the housing needs of future generations. NHC is committed to the vigorous
pursuit of mortgage and rental payments due it and will take prompt legal
action against accounts in default.
4.        The calculation of economic rent for rental accommodation is
specifically determined by Schedule 2 of the National Housing Corporation Act.
The costs included are:
*    amortization allowance covering the capital cost of construction and
interest;
-    maintenance allowance to provide for maintenance during the
amortization period;
*    the annual land rent payable for the land on which the dwelling is
situated;
*    local government or other rates and charges imposed on the dwelling;
*    insurance on the dwelling;
*    an amount to allow for vacancies and defaults; and
*    administrative costs.
Products and Services
5.        NHC will concentrate on producing serviced plots and on plot
development in sizes, standards, and at costs affordable by the target groups
it serves, along with upgrading substandard communities when requested. NHC
will also provide, for a fee, consulting services to public and private
agencies and individuals in designing and managing housing projects and will
carry out research and other activities to develop the local materials
production and construction industries. NHC is committed to being an
efficient producer of shelter and wfill develop its human resources to increase
its capabilities and capacities in all aspects of shelter provision.
Coordination with Other Authorities
6.        NHC will work closely and cooperatively with zoning and other
regulatory agencies to ensure that the standards set allow the provision of
affordable shelter to all members of its target beneficiary group and will
coordinate its site development with DLPP, DOW, Provincial Departments and
local authorities.



-  81  -                      ANNEX 5
Page 3
Regulation
7.        NHC will establish mortgage covenants to ensure that its mortgages
are secure and that its target group of families benefit from its products and
services, e.g., the plot is purchased as the purchaser's prime residence, but
will otherwise be guided by the principles that purchasers of its properties:
are free to enjoy and use their property as they please; have the duty singly
and collectively to care for their property including "communal" land; and are
subject to the regulations established by national and local authorities. NHC
will not provide services or substitute its own regulations for those of other
authorities or home-owner associations. Should its mortgage covenants be
violated, NHC will seek remedies through the courts.
III. Shelter Production
8.        NHC will produce a range of subdivisional designs, from single plots
intended for detached housing solutions to land designed for multiple
occupancy and managed--from inception to the final disposal--by a multi-
disciplinary Project Team under the responsibility of a "Project Manager" who
ensures that:
*    costs of plots and on-plot development are affordable and desirable
by its target group of beneficiaries in proportion to their
representation in the population as a whole, varying standards to
attain affordability;
*    before mobilizing land for development, a careful assessment is made
of the market, socio-cultural, environmental, health and ownership
situation of the area under consideration and ensures that all
holders of rights, including squatters, are treated fairly and
humanely and compensated adequately.  Any issues identified during
pre-acquisition investigations will be addressed with such specific
actions as environmental impact mitigation plans, resettlement
plans, etc. before the mobilization is finalized.
*    a number of on-plot development options are available based on
affordability ranging from pit-latrine construction to core housing
to fully constructed houses, flats, towm houses and condominiums;
*    arrangements are made for the pre-selling of plots and on-plot
development before construction begins;
*    electricity, water and sewerage will be available on time to allow
the prompt sale and occupation of plots as they are developed;
*    after the last plots are sold, local governance arrangements,
including owner associations, will be available to provide for
communal needs and services;
*    due consideration is given to transportation and access to work,
stores and services in choosing sites;



-  82  -                        ANNEX 5
Page 4
industrial and commercial plots may be developed in conjunction with
residential plot development and land may be set aside for
playgrounds, churches and other communal needs.
IV. Cash Sales
9.        NHC's policy is to sell plots and on-plot development for cash from
the purchaser or from a mortgage financier. Assistance will be given to
purchasers on sources of finance and in obtaining funds.
V. NHC Provided Mortgage Financing
10.       The following governs the administration of NHC's existing
mortgages, the mortgages NHC issues on tenant purchase of existing NHC and
Government rental houses, and on any mortgage NHC might in the future provide
for the purchase of its future shelter production in the event of a lack of
commercial mortgage finance for qualified, financially capable buyers,
provided NHC has sufficient and appropriate financial resources to fund the
mortgages.
Eligibility
11.       Mortgage financing can be available to all citizens via Commercial
Banks who meet NHC's eligibility standards, which will be publicly available,
for the purpose of purchasing an existing Government or NHC owned house.
Mortgage financing may also be provided for the purchase of new plots and/or
on-plot development being offered for sale by the NHC subject to eligibility
criteria which will also be publicly available. Industrial/commercial plots
are sold for cash or short-te:m notes.
Allocation of Mortgages
12.       Sales of property and mortgage loans for these, if available, will
be allocated on a "first come, first served" basis. Applicants are free to
specify where they wish to purchase subject to ability to pay.
Security
13.       Individual loans will be secured by a first mortgage on the property
and such other security as may be specified from time-to-time and case-to-case
including insurance.
Rate and Term
14.       Under the Government's decisions to sell its housing stock, loans
for the purchase of existing Government houses carry no interest rate, but an
amount is prescribed from time-to-time to cover NHC's administrative expenses.
The NHC has the contractual right, following consultation with DFP, to adjust
this amount periodically to reflect actual expenses incurred.
15.       Other loans will carry an interest rate set by NHC at the time the
mortgage is originated based upon its current marginal cost of funds and
lending spread.



-  83  -                        ANNEX 5
Page 5
16.       The Corporation will have the contractual right to adjust mortgage
rates periodically based on changes to its weighted average cost of funds
within limits setting the annual and life-of-mortgage adjustments which may be
made, which are also set at the time or mortgage origination. Maximum
mortgage term wil' be 30 years. Applicant age, type of shelter and other
conditions may result in a lesser period.
Rate Adjustments
17.       Every six months Management shall automatically adjust mortgage
rates--up or down--based on the weighted average cost of funds to NHC for the
past six months. Old mortgages will be brought to current standards through
maximum allowable adjustments every six months. Mortgagors will be promptly
notified by mail and through publication in the local media of the adjustment,
including notification of no change in the lending rate.
Credit Standards
18.       Applicant family income and ability to pay will determine the size
of loan a family is eligible for. Family credit obligations in excess of one
year will be deducted before computing family income to determine the amount
of loan eligibility. No more than one-third of the remainder will be
allocated to mortgage payments to determine maximum eligibility after down
payment. Closing costs may be charged to the loan. Credit applications will
contain affidavits certifying the statements thereon are true, that no other
residence is owned and that the applicants intend to occupy and use the
property as a permanent home. Legal remedies will be sought when false
affidavits are discovered. Graduated rate mortgages and "balloon" payments
will not be used.
Payments
19.       Equal monthly payments will be called for in all mortgage contracts.
Payments received 15 days or more late will be assessed penalty interest
monthly at the rate of 0.5 percent a month until brought current. Accounts in
arrears 30 days will receive notices by mail of possible default; accounts 60
days in arrears will be contacted in person or by telephone; accounts in
arrears 90 days or more where no work-out has been agreed to will be
considered in default and legal action instituted to repossess the property.
VI. Internal NHC Finance and Administration
Financial Planning
20.       In November of each year the Managing Director will recommend to the
Board the operational plan and budget for the next year. These
recommendations, in such manner and detail as prescribed by the Board, will be
supported by a five-year financial projection, prepared by the management, and
indicating clearly the assumptions and policies used to make the forecast,
highlighting where changes to previous year assumptions and policies were
used. In reviewing the budget, operating plan and financial projections,
NHC's financial and policy assumptions will also be reviewed and confirmed or



-  84  -                        ANNEX 5
Page 6
modified by the Board, including, inter alia, the lending spread for the next
twelve months.
Financial Objectives
21.       In its planning and administration of NHC, Management is directed to
produce, maintain and/or observe the following standards:
* Accounts in arrears 90+ days: Less than 2 percent of accounts.
* Provisions for Doubtful Debts: 1 percent of the net value of
outstanding loans.
* Debt/Equity Ratio:               10:1
* Current Ratio:                   1.5:1
* Interest Service Ratio:          1.5:1
* Lending rate adjustments:        Less than or = ± 12 p.a.
Less than or = 52 over term.
• Total Operating Expenses:        Less than 32 of total assets
e Return on Equity:                At least 162.
22.       The books of the Corporation will be maintained in such a manner as
to identify the full direct and indirect costs of properties sold. This cost
will be set annually by the Board at the time of the approval of the budget
and plan. The mark-up will be set to: fund reserves, maintain ratio
standards, and preserve capital in real terms. Management will propose the
mark-up to the Board as part of the annual budget and plan against the longer
term context of the five-year financial forecast. Management is granted
flexibility to apply the mark-up differently to classes of property,
particularly to maintain affordability for the lowest income group served by
NHC. Industrial/commercial plots are to be offered on tender to the highest
bidder as a cash or near cash sale. Any residential, industrial or commercial
property offered for sale at a price below full cost requires prior Board
notification.
Borrowing
23.       NHC seeks to match maturity and rate in its lending and borrowing
portfolios to the maximum extent possible and to diversify its sources of
finance. Except during times of unusually high interest rates and with the
approval of the Board, NHC will not borrow at maturities less than ten years
to fund its mortgage portfolio. Construction loans may be borrowed short-
term. Long-term borrowings at fixed rates are to be committed to fixed rate
mortgages for the same maturity whenever possible. Adjustable rate borrowings
will always be loaned at adjustable rates.
Z4.       NHC will fully promote the use of the proposed Housing Refinancing
Facility to be established in the Bank of Papua New Guinea.
Delegation to the MD
25.       Policy making is the exclusive right of the Board.  The MD is
authorized to carry out the plans arnd policies approved by the Board subject
to the following restrictions and conditions;



-  85  -                      ANNEX 5
Page 7
*    Construction and/or land acquisition contracts in excess of
K 500,000 require the Board's prior approval;
*    The Board is to be notified promptly if any events beyond
management's control will prevent the fulfillment of the approved
annual plan or realization of its financial objectives;
*   Management is to report monthly to the Board current operating and
financial results consistent with the fo,rmat and manner in which the
annual plan was presented to and approved by the Board.
VII. Audit
26.       Annual audits of the NHC's accounts and internal controls will be
carried out by a qualified public accounting firm appointed by the Auditor
General's Office.



- 86 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                             Annex 6
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year       1990      I      1991      i     1992      I 1993
I                           Quarter  1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4    1  21
-  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -   ---------------  --- --- --- ---  --             --------… …
A. Land & Housing Development      I               I                I               I        I
1. New PLot Development
Port Moresby:             I               I                |
Temp. Subdivision Lease  I                               I==
Design & Constr'n Docs.      =    …====i
Tendering and Award     i                 ======
Contract Inplementation                  I      ========I
Madaig:
I           Tenp. Subdivision Lease                  I==
resign & Constr'n Docs.                                  I = ==
I           Tendering and Award                             …                         I =
I           Contract Implementation  I               I       =======I
Existing Plot Sales          i                                                I        I
New Plot SaLes                                        =
2. House Construction
on exisitng sites         I                I…I                                      I
On new sites              I                I                                        I
3. Institutional Strengthening
NHC Operations            g                           =                     I
Studies                   I               I                                I        I
Monitor'g & New Proj. Prep.1               I       ===     I                I
B. Drainage                         I                I               I                I
I                                   I                I               I                I   
I   1. PhysicaL improvements        I                I…I
I   2. Studies                      I                I    =====                       I
C. Industry                        I               I                                         I
I D. Management & Monitoring        I                           = =                   I        I
-                                    I -  -              -          -
17 Dec 90



-  87  -                          ANNEX 7
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
Estimated Disbursements Schedule
Estimated Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal year           Disbursements             Disbursement Profile
and Semester           $ million        Z         of Regional Urban Projects (Z)
1991
June 30, 1991            8.0           27                       1
1992
December 31, 1991       14.0           47                       8
June 30, 1992           20.0           67                      15
1993
December 31, 1992       25.0           83                      23
June 30, 1993           30.0          100                      31
1994
December 31, 1993                                              39
June 30, 1994                                                  47
1995
December 31, 1994                                              54
June 30, 1995                                                  63
1996
December 31, 1995                                              73
June 30, 1996                                                  81
1997
December 31, 1996                                              90
June 30, 1997                                                 100
Mission estimate.



-  88  -                      ANNEX 8
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
Documents and Data in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies
1. USPP Feasibility Study, Department of Housing and COWI Consultant,
March 1988.
2. National Task Force on Shelter Policy and Planning, Final report
September 1989.
B. Project related documents
1.  Housing
(a) Draft TOR for technical assistance to BPNG on establishing the HRF
(b) Draft PFI agreements
(c) NHC draft TOR's for Institutional Strengthening
(d) Assumptions used in financial projections
(e) Additional project data
(f) Economic analysis
2. Drainage
(a) Department of Works Structure and functions
(b) Details of drainage works by province
(c) TOR's for drainage master plan and urban services studies
3.  Small Industry TA
SBDC operations
4.  Management and Monitoring
(a) TOR and membership of the Structural Adjustment Committee
(b) TOR for the Project Manager.
(c) TOR for the implementation of (i) Project Cycle; (ii) PROMIS;
(iii) Computerization.
5. Environment/Resettlement
(a) SIP Environmental Impact Study, NSR environmental consultants,
July 1990
(b) Involuntary Resettlement: A review of the policies and practices
of the PNG Government, NSR environmental consultants, September
1990.



-  89  -                                          Chart 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND PLANNING
Organization Chart
DEPUTY SECRETARY                 ~~~DEPUTY SECRETARY                                         DEPrJY SECRETARY
FINANCIAL OPERATIONS                        PLANNING AND BU9CETINC                                   IMACRO-ECONOMIC C00RDINATION
| TAXATION |    REVE?4JE      OIDA       SOCIAL               STRUCTULAL ADJUSTHENT                      N O             ErCONOMIC
M | HANACEHENT | |    | | AFFAIRS |           |       COHITTEE                                          POLICY ANALYSIS
| LREAU        LOANS z   |             | FROVINCIAL      STRUCTURAL       PRWVJI OF         A9          INOUSJ        STRATEGIC A
O F           DEST                       AFFAIRS       ADJUSTH£NT        SPEC IAL       PROORA4       COF.          INSTITUTIONAL STUDIES
CUST OMS      KANACEMENT                                   LOAN          NTEVENTIIS        LOAN
C#CIAL
rSUPPORT                   CERA
| SERVYICES  |          | AFFAIRS
NATIONAL                    SYSTEMS 
COMPUTER                  PROCEDUIRES
CENTER                     LINIT
|INSPECTION 
F  BRNCH 
No,,eber 19R90



Chart 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
NATIONAL HOUSING CORPORATION
Organization Chart
DIRECTOR 
_~~~
I~nag.ent  enelouu*nt  Tre.ING SAe                     aktig          Db            uLEVEL.er                                              uu.o  A        Ln
CSRPORATE                                                             FNNE         lHBLZTO
VEELOPMKNT 
DIRi=TOR   DIRETOR                                      D IRCOR                                  DIRECTOR                     DIRECTR DIEOR                  DIRECTOR
toyt           Hma.                                     Mak tig a                                em  F     tion.        I oert           Land              Land Acqul-t-e
In~o,aati    RooPlanne         A            O-f                                                Adi..tte,                   -t        D-J& aagsnt Dsinp,at ,  A cc~nt;O
Manage"nt                                   Pla- I                                                                                              D-n i_nlopagerten
MMA;3%                               a       Pi.annP.l      Gt IChg                   Ac un tantgqr    Accunan                         f iC                         P-incb-1                             C              °
lXa-ae_nt      Dee m         T       rinn        sael         Ka tXrk,tng      Debt   | |Buiding                                                  Sur,eyor         La  tnd                               iInte-nat 
Informa tion      Olne                            ffienr     R"' aers  A |  nooepmtl        Doign                                                       Pl.-er|   Acq.iate |;       l                     A.dlt-r|
Syst_-                         Ie-lpnt                      D" v-lptl                 '    atnage"nt                                            ''    Office,                         
OTC Peronnx                        OICt    |  Accoune nt   J Aeson ~nt ]| OI  Di                                               I Pici-           l nc Prni1-      top e |
Adam.                          Debt            Fin nce        Adai.                            Cont,act                    Coun;ty    | nfortion aSte-terat
Reconc-Iistion      Accounting       Acounts                             Adam.                      a  nes &               c
|     IC                OIC   |       IC              OD7           Chief                     OIC
| Ad   rate      lu tion        Rental          Purchtae   Mi Mnten nce              | And
Asst                          l Popertie0A0m                   Off!ce                AdminiStration
C-apa  ionR.t!                                    Pu.o



~w
t~~~~
flfl'1
- 16 -



WEST 
SEP/K                       EAsr SEP/K 
AjTQP I l. .... !~~I 
i 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -_..j
i ~ ~~~                                 ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~ A IV _ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-5.
MA D A NG 
\  /    wEsr N E W
i EANG A                   '^                              Modong                          
WabTogoa                Kdi,
HIGHLANDS    (.W.,, HIGHIANDS
s  S  ~    >,,9 To   Kudii5j--a                                 Bu\.. 
Klunga                                       chuave.~~~~~~~~~~~Keem 
raiunea  .   ~ t t~>~p eno Ku  di   Goroklto roois
I       N*;Y   VJ8;bU  \;  CH/Bu%              4'7nc 
jSOU
0 hjG!AD                                                                                                             Or--ro
HI///GH/PANDST (                               MORC)BER!
\                                    -\/ Mnn~~~~~~~~~~~~yamyo    Bulolo!
\            o~~~~KikorlB                                       aWouI
Aseki 
WEsrERAt                  \                                                   - nCT
i  I          \.                                             - NoRrHERI
1                                8~~~~~~~ ~ ~~eremoa           Popondett
DOaru                                        *Kd  \da
_,                           j              h            .               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oro Bay
~~ ~~ >   _  ~~~~  ~~ \ > ~~G UL F                                         .                           alo    ,Mn us".
PORT MORESBY                    
ro od i eP   o* ord, L,.o,Id,.b .irF,                                     KIIOMETERS 0       0      80    120    160       Kupiono
eefri* - tZ d dr,>,lb                                       M~~~~~~ ~~ILOETES t           
rooIlP,. wofddI.okv-4r_e2s-E d  fhU.,..co.~ioo.                                MILE        20    40   TO       100
o~~o of ,.~' I.rdarVor,.,y~~~~Oorob,o.of.orhbr4o6donI0
147



w E sTr                                         .                                                                                         IAVONGAI
SEP/I K               EAsr   sEP/K                                                                                                                   Kovieng
ISLANDS
3.  Ailope ~~~~~~~~~ILIHIR GROUP
NEW IRELAND
TANGA ISLANC'S
-  wok                                              *" .-~._.-..-...-..-.-. .M  A N  U  S          NEW        IRELAND                                  Nma,a.onoi
_. _  _ _ ._  r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                    _  7 _  _  _  1--             --                     \                                              FENI ISLANDS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEI SLND
-  \           M   A    D    A   N   G                  /. ,                                                                tRobBul                           JBOUGAINVILLE
M AD A N G
W  ST r N E W  P RIrA/NV
t                         o-                     A                                ,                                                                  '-                        L…
_ 9      |   El/NGA                                                                                                         Tls Madong    Toeo,  Boo 
W \   %>l  d- 95  W>H/G/^IZANDS   f                  a            1                             >Kb  i            -                                                           Kietao
s    a    ~'-> tTogobe     '    udpa,.A                                   __                                                   3uu1   /           
6Kkunu                                                                 toisi
Jetibo S0utEZ-R~r*   \  !NEW BRITAIN
SOUTHERN                    N    f/B' 
Hi /GHZAIVDS                                                                                                                       E>-<.>129.....     A S r
-H-/GHLA' ~ i S^fRNDS/                M O ROB E 1..NE W  BR/rA/N
K                                       N. ;  MenyBsyo  6vulal           M                                                                                 PAPUA NEW  GUINEA
oK.ko,.                                   Wc\OAsaki                                                                       SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
Asek.
WESrERN               \                                            -                                                              i                                  *      Housing Sites
Kerenia       i                 >       _ .          _        _                                _              _ _ - - _ _ ....................... . . . . .   _-_ .... _. _R!_ ........ _ _ _ ... _ _ _ _   Ports
?-..-**-..-**-.--.*--*  'j~~    Airports
NOARTHERN             /
-    I              \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~~~~~National Roads
*/{  >   %   t  !                    -      Major Provincial Roads
Bereino                Ppnet                                                                               Rivers
Doru   |  Bereinr °g   KOI               /    M)LNE  BAY                               IMountainous Areas (2,000-3,000 meters)
O   0                                                                                                                                                       Province Boundaries                       z
Gu<                .                                                                         Oro Bou / -.---   Intemorionol Boundo. ies
-* -.          GULF                     I                     Menus"..                                                             1~~~~~~PRT                   PHIL IPPINES
z-->   -  -   \A   G az F   tPORT MORESBY        -..                                                     M D ~ ~ | tE ILAYSIA, -
z CENTRAL           Z        j<                                                                        IN D O N E S I A
rA. =*Lynwv8^~ - "ixo0   40   8e   120   160    Kupiano                                                                                                                                                      i
I4*~~Iw  drseUeldf/@!r     KILOMETERS _-        _ _          I .
~-v nw^vu.rn             sr"r>7_                                   MILES                                                                G 0
A010                                                        GurneyAUSTR1A0InI
SEPTEMPER 1990



