Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16795
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
(Loan 3289-PNG)
June 26, 1997
Papua New Guinea & Pacific Islands Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January, 1991)
Currency Unit = Papua New Guinea Kina (K)
US$1.0 = KO.96
K1.0   = $1.04
(As of December, 1996)
US$1.0 = K1.35
K1.0 = $0.74
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
UNITS OF MEASURES
1 meter= 39.37 inches
I kilometer (km) 0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
BPNG         Bank of Papua New Guinea
DFP          Department of Finance and Planning
DPM          Department of Personnel Management
DTI          Department of Trade and Industry
DOW          Department of Works
EEC          European Economic Community
HRF          Housing Refinancing Facility
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
NEC          National Economic Council
NHC          National Housing Corporation
PFI          Participating Financial Institutions
PNG          Papua New Guinea
PIP          Public Investment Program
SAPC         Structural Adjustment Program Committee
SBDC         Small Business Development Corporation
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
UPNG         University of Papua New Guinea
Vice President                     Jean-Michel Severino
Director                           Marianne Haug
Division Chief                     Richard A. Calkins
Staff Member                       Stuart Whitehead



Table of Contents
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PREFACE .................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................................11
PART I SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT ASSESSMENT
A.  STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ................................................................                                      1
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ...............................................................4
C.  FACTORS  AFFECTING  IMPLEMENTATION ................................................................                                       7
D.  PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ................................................................8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ...............................................................8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...............................................................9
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ................................................................9
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ................................................................9
I.  LESSONS LEARNED ...............................................................                                                         10
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES ...............................................................                                                               11
TABLE  1:          SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENT  ......................                               ........................................ 11
TABLE 2:           RELATED  BANK  LOANS ..............................................................                                        12
TABLE 3:    PROJECT TIMETABLE ..............................................................                                                  12
TABLE 4:  LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ........... ............ 13
TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - TIME SCHEDULE ................ 14
TABLE 5B:   KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ....................                                           ........................... 1 5
TABLE 6:           KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION  .........................................................   16
TABLE 7:           STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  PROJECT ..................................                            ............................ 17
TABLE 8A:  PROJECT COSTS .............................................................. 18
TABLE 8B:  PROJECT FINANCrNG ..............................................................                                                   1 8
TABLE 9:           ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS ................................................                            ............... 1 9
TABLE  10:   STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...............................................................                                       20
TABLE  11:   COMPLIANCE  WITH  OPERATIONAL  MANUAL  STATEMENTS ..............                                                 .................... 21
TABLE  12:   BANK  RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..............................................................                                      21
TABLE  13:   BANK  RESOURCES: MISSIONS ...............................................................                                       22
ANNEX B: STATISTICAL TABLES ON PROJECT COMPONENTS ..................................................... 24
TABLE 1: PROGRAM OF SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS .24
TABLE 2: AMENDMENTS TO THE LOAN AGREEMENT OF SIP .24
TABLE 3: OPEN DRAINS COMPLETED .25
TABLE 4: STEEL AND CONCRETE CULVERT'S COMPLETED .26
TABLE 5: EXPENDITURE ON DRANAGE .27
TABLE 6: SBDC AND CIU PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .27
TABLE 7: BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT NETWORKS .28
TABLE 8: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT .29
MAP (IBRD NO. 22612) .............. 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed -without
World Bank authorization.






-1-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
(Loan No. 3289-PNG)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Special Interventions Project
(Loan 3289-PNG) in the Independent State of Papua New Guinea, for which a Bank loan of
US$30.0 million was approved on January 29, 1991 and made effective on July 15, 1991.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1996 following three one-year extensions of the
original closing date of December 31, 1993. However, at the original closing date of the project,
the housing refinancing component (Part A. 1) and incremental operating costs (Part D), amounting
to US$12,386,817 million were not extended. Final disbursement took place on March 14, 1997,
and the undisbursed balance was US$229,367.
The ICR was prepared by Ephrem Asebe (consultant) under the supervision of Stuart
Whitehead (Infrastructure Sector Specialist) of the Papua New Guinea and Pacific Islands Division.
It was reviewed by Richard Calkins, Chief of the Papua New Guinea and Pacific Islands Division,
and Oscar de Bruyn Kops, Acting Operations Adviser, and approved by Marianne Haug, Director,
Country Department III, East Asia and Pacific Region.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's supervision missions in 1996, and is based
on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing
comments on the earlier draft during February 1997 mission. The Borrower has not submitted its
own written contribution to the ICR.






-ii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
(Loan No. 3289-PNG)
Evaluation Summary
Background and Project Objectives
i.    The economy of Papua New Guinea experienced major shocks in the late 1980's, primarily
because of: (a) the closure of the Bougainville copper and gold mine, and (b) the sharp fall in the
prices of PNG's commodity exports (coffee, cacao, and oil palm). Recognizing the need to respond
to these external shocks, the Government embarked in 1990 on a Structural Adjustment Program
(SAP) supported by a Structural Adjustment Loan (L n. 3218-PNG) from the World Bank. The
Special Interventions Program was intended to be a quick disbursing operation designed to offset
the social costs of adjustment. The program was to be financed jointly by the Asian Development
Bank, the World Bank, and the European Economic Commission. But at pre-appraisal phase it was
agreed to divide the program into groups of components of special interest to each of the donors.
ii.    Objectives. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the objectives of the Bank-
financed Special Interventions Project (SIP) were to: (a) address the more urgent social needs
arising from PNG's ongoing economic adjustment by enhancing employment opportunities among
low income, unemployed and under-employed urban workers; and (b) strengthen the institutional
capacity of the government to better formulate and implement projects.
iii.   Project Components. The cost of the project was US$40.3 million of which the IBRD
component was US$30 million. Specifically, the SIP included: (a) technical assistance to the
National Housing Corporation (NHC) and a line of credit for housing mortgage (US$23.7 million);
(b) construction and maintenance of road drains (US$11.4 million); (c) technical assistance to the
Small Business Development Corporation (SBDC) and the Construction Industry Unit (CIU) of the
Department of Trade and Industry for development of small scale business and enterprises
(US$2.6 million); and (d) project management and monitoring (US$2.7 million).
iv.   The main project objectives, employment generation and institutional strengthening, were
clear and consistent with the country's development objectives. A quick disbursing, employment
generating project was important to the country's ongoing reform program and was the rationale for
Bank involvement in the project. However, the design of the project was not compatible with
these objectives as the project was complex, with many institutions participating and a lack of
effective coordination between them.



-iii-
Implementation Experience and Results.
v.    Overall, the objectives of the project were not achieved. The total employment generated
under the project was estimated as 2,374 person-years-only 36 percent of the targeted
6,500 person-years. The housing component did not meet its physical targets nor did it generate
a meaningful level of employment. None of the 2,000 new homes targeted under the project
were built and the Housing Refinancing Facility (HRF) did not become operational as envisaged.
In spite of successive amendments to the loan agreement-on February 6, 1991 to increase the
number of participating financial intermediaries and on August 5, 1992 to make the HRF interest
attractive-only US$113,182 of the facility had been utilized by the original closing date of
December 31, 1993. Improved liquidity in the domestic banking system undercut the rationale and
need for the HRF. Effort made to compensate for the institutional weakness in NHC through TA
were not effective. As a result of the poor performance of and prospects for this component of the
project, it was not extended along with other components at the time of the original loan closing
date in December 1993.
vi.   By contrast, the drainage sub-project performed well in generating employment, exceeding
the targeted 200,000 person-days by some 6 percent. A total of 101,287 meters of open road side
drains and 705 meters of culvert works were constructed compared to the appraisal targets of
12,000 meters of side drains. The drainage component was completed on time, within the original
budget, and disbursed relatively quickly. However, the direct cost for drainage works, roughly
estimated at US$9,800 per person-year of employment created, was high compared to similar
programs in other countries.
vii.   The UNDP/OPS administered TA for Small Business Development Corporation (SBDC)
and Construction Industrial Unit (CIU) and studies related to the other project components started
after two years of delay. The TA to SBDC helped entrepreneurs establish small firms (71 small
firms in 1995 and an estimated 100 in 1996) that provided 1,374 person-years of permanent jobs.
Most of the studies done under the project were completed and the redefined objectives for these
TAs have been largely achieved. However, few of the recommendations of the Infrastructure
Sector Study have been implemented and little improvement has taken place in infrastructure
management and maintenance. The Port Moresby Urban Services Study, although not widely
disseminated and reviewed by a sufficiently wide group of "stakeholders", enjoyed very extensive
involvement by NCDC staff and has contributed to improved investment decisions. The NCDC
Storm Water Drainage Master Plan has served as a basis for investment plans which are under
preparation for OECD financing.
viii.  The cost of the project which was actually implemented-i.e. net of the canceled housing
component-was US$18.4 million compared to the total approved project cost of US$40.3 million.
The loan was to have been fully disbursed by December 31, 1993. In fact, it closed at the end of
December 1996 following three extensions.



-iv-
Factors Influencing Project
ix.    Delay in appointing the Project Manager, lack of adequate guidance by the Government's
Structural Adjustment Programme Committee (SAPC), and rapid turnover of Managing Directors
in NHC compounded the design problems of the housing component and undermined the prospects
of achieving meaningful improvement in the NHC's institutional and operating performance. Good
implementation performance of the drainage component which exceeded its targets reflects the
adequate implementation capacity in place from the outset of the project.
Bank and Borrower Performance
x.    Overall, Bank performance in the preparation and appraisal phase is rated as deficient. As
noted above, the design of the housing component in which the Bank was closely involved, was a
major cause of the poor performance of the component and the project overall. Bank performance
during implementation is, however, rated as satisfactory if, perhaps, not sufficiently resolute in
terminating the housing component as soon as it became clear that it could not achieve the
objectives set for it.
xi.   Government performance varied by component and is rated as highly satisfactory for the
drainage component, deficient for the housing component, and only marginally satisfactory for the
other components. Once the project was declared effective Government "ownership" of the project
faltered and was not sufficiently strong during the entire implementation period. The delay in
appointment of the Project Manager was compounded by SAPC which did not meet on a
sufficiently regular and frequent basis to give effective guidance in resolving implementation
issues. In addition, relatively little implementation of recommendations of the technical assistance
studies has taken place to date.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
xii.   Despite the satisfactory outcome of the non-housing components of this project, the overall
project outcome is assessed as deficient. Given the poor implementation experience of this project,
its sustainability is assessed as unlikely.
xiii.  Through the drainage improvements, the project has helped to focus attention on the
management and maintenance of infrastructure assets and the contribution this makes to economic
recovery and social development. The Government's Medium-term Development Strategy seeks to
transform this attention into a "core" government priority. Upcoming Bank support through the
proposed Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project and the proposed Highland Highway
Rehabilitation Project should start to make this strategy operational through support for improved
planning methods, increased resource allocations, institutional changes affecting national and
provincial agencies and greater reliance on superior private sector management and contract
implementing capacity.
xiv.  A major concern is the viability and sustainability of SBDC and CIU's future operations.
Both institutions must improve their performance considerably if they are to remain viable in the



liberalizing economic environment that is unfolding in PNG. In particular, they need to reduce
their cost of generating employment and increase productivity to remain relevant. In monitoring
their future operations, the following may be used to measure the impact of the services offered by
SBDC and CIU-assisted enterprises: (i) the market share of the small industry sector and its growth;
(ii) the unit costs of employment creation; (iii) the quality of the construction works undertaken
and their completion on time and within budget; and (iv) the availability of trained personnel in the
market in those areas where SBDC and CIU provide services.
xv.   Experience under the Special Interventions Project provides many useful lessons for future
projects in Papua New Guinea and elsewhere:
(a) When project objectives are clear and stakeholder support is widespread, as in the
case of the drainage component, good implementation performance is an entirely
reasonable prospect in Papua New Guinea;
(b) In the preparation of projects, there is a clear need for consistency between project
objectives and project design as evidenced in the failure of the housing component;
(c) The design of the project should relate the short-term objectives to the overall policy
framework for the sector and any long-term sector reform effort. For example, in this
project the objectives of housing finance and the institutional interventions selected for
delivering this, were not compatible with Government's macroeconomic and structural
policy reforms;
(d) Institutional development through provision of consultant advisory services may fail to
deliver results in the absence of a stable operating environment characterized by
decisive and stable project management dedicated to well defined and widely agreed
objectives; and
(e) Project complexity, as reflected by a large number of participating agencies, must be
calibrated carefully in line with the Borrower's capacity, otherwise it may impose an
undue burden of oversight on the Borrower and adversely affect project performance as
it did in this case.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
(Loan No. 3289-PNG)
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Background. In 1989, the PNG economy, which had been improving in the second half
of 1980's, experienced major shocks primarily because of: (a) the closure of the Bougainville
copper and gold mine, and (b) the sharp fall in the prices of PNG's commodity exports (coffee,
cacao and oil palm). These developments entailed severe economic and financial implications
for PNG. The Government recognized that the shocks confronting the economy were of a
magnitude that could easily be destabilizing in the absence of prompt and strong adjustment
measures. Accordingly, the Government embarked in 1990 on a structural adjustment program
designed to achieve: (a) financial stabilization; (b) improvement of public resource management;
and (c) promotion of the private non-mining sector. This overall stabilization program was
supported by a World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL Ln. 3218-PNG).
2.    A quick disbursing Program of Special Interventions estimated to cost US$76.8 million
(Annex B, Table 1) was designed to help offset the social costs of the Structural Adjustment
Program. The criteria used in selecting program components were: (i) contribution to
employment and income; (ii) readiness for implementation and hence quick disbursements;
(iii) high priority in the public investment program (PIP); (iv) satisfactory economic rates of
return; and (v) the possibility to rely on existing institutions and organizational arrangements,
where possible. The program was to be financed jointly by ADB, IBRD and EEC. However, at
the pre-appraisal stage, it was agreed to separate the program into groups of components of
special interest to each donor.
3.    Objectives. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, objectives of the Bank-financed
Special Interventions Project (SIP) were to: (a) address the more urgent social needs arising
from PNG's ongoing economic adjustment by enhancing employment opportunities among low
income, unemployed and under-employed urban workers; and (b) strengthen the institutional
capacity of the government to better formulate and implement projects. Thus, employment
generation and institutional strengthening represented the two major themes of the Special
Interventions Project (SIP) which included a number of otherwise unrelated components for each
of which specific objectives were set.
4.    Project Components. Specifically, the SIP included: (i) technical assistance to the
National Housing Corporation (NHC) and a line of credit for housing mortgages
(US$23.7 million or 59% of project costs); (ii) construction and maintenance of road drains



-2-
(US$11.4 million or 28%); (iii) small industry technical assistance through the Small Business
Development Corporation (SBDC) and the Construction Industry Unit (CIU) of the then
Department of Trade and Industry (US$2.6 million or 6.4%); and (iv) project management and
monitoring (US$2.7 million or 6.7% of project costs).
5.    The project was approved by the Board on January 29, 1991. In the course of
implementation, several changes in the loan agreement were made. The Bank agreed to waive
hiring of a project manager as a condition of effectiveness (July 11, 1991) and the loan became
effective on July 15, 1991. The loan agreement was also amended to: a) increase the number of
participating financial institutions (February, 1991); b) change the basis for determining the Bank
onlending to participating financial institutions (August, 1992); and c) allow the procurement of
emergency bridges for use in the Highlands Provinces and East New Britain.
6.    Housing. The key objectives of the housing component under SIP were rapid generation
of employment and stimulation of the construction industry. Performance of the housing
delivery system in PNG was impaired by a number of constraints including, amongst other
things: i) the lack of a market-based housing production and financing system, particularly for
lower and middle-income families; ii) the lack of a sound institutional framework, with a clearly
defined role and market for the National Housing Corporation; and iii) the lack of aggressive
efforts by the private sector to bring new and more affordable housing products to the market,
including for lower-income groups. Sub-components included: a) institutional development in
NHC to strengthen its capacity to provide serviced housing plots; and b) establishment of a
Housing Refinancing Facility (HRF) to stimulate provision of long-term mortgages by
commercial banks including NHC's serviced plots.
7.    Drainage. The objectives of the drainage component centered on generating employment
in the short-term and on extending the economic life of several hundred kilometers of national
roads, including sections in or near urban centers, where the risk of pavement failure due to
inadequate drainage was high. The drainage works were to comprise the construction of road-
side drains (culverts and lined drainage channels, small stone-pitch and earth drains) along
national roads in Port Moresby and in other priority areas identified by the National Capital
District Commission (NCDC) and the then Department of Works (DOW) staff in the provinces.
The technical criteria for drainage construction included: (i) in particular, the severity of
drainage problems and risk of complete failure; and (ii) the importance of road sections as
reflected by traffic volumes. The associated repairs of adjacent road sections that deteriorated due
to poor drainage were also to be financed under the project.
8.    Small Industry. The primary objective of the technical assistance component for small
industries was to strengthen the then department of Trade and Industry (DTI) to help
entrepreneurs in the construction and service sectors - identified as having potential for
generating employment and economic growth in PNG. In order to augment the small core staff
in the SBDC and the CIU, about 150 person-months of technical assistance were to be provided
in management, finance, marketing and logistics. Incremental operating costs for extension
services in the provinces were also financed under the project.



-3-
9.    Management and Monitoring. It was recognized at the outset that implementation and
administration of the program would be difficult given the project's links to the structural
adjustment process and, most importantly, the desire for rapid implementation and disbursements
as well as the need for coordination of a large number of components and agencies' and with
.several cofinanciers. In addition, the project was multi-sectoral and a large number of small
contracts were anticipated. Strong project management was, therefore, deemed necessary. To
this end, monitoring project performance was placed directly under the Structural Adjustment
Committee (SAPC) which had already been set up by the Government comprising higher level
officials drawn from the Department of Finance and Planning (DFP), the Bank of Papua New
Guinea (BPNG) and the Department of Personnel Management (DPM). A full-time Project
Manager was to be appointed to support SAPC oversight of the project, as well as to expedite
implementation of an ongoing Bank-executed, UNDP technical assistance project (PNG/86/008
SNAPEM II). The objectives of this UNDP TA project, which provided about 100 person-
months of consultant advisory services, were to: a) install a project planning and implementation
management process; b) implement a project management information system; and c) rationalize
infornation technology use by the Government.
Evaluation of Objectives and Project Design.
10.   The project's objectives of employment generation and institutional strengthening were
clear. The project was intended to help the Government address the mounting unemployment
and underemployment, particularly amongst the low-income urban population which had been
hit hard by the adverse economic climate facing the country and the effects of the structural
adjustment measures designed to return the economy to growth in the medium-term. To this end,
the project sought to spur growth in construction activity in housing and infrastructure -
identified by the Government as areas for priority attention. On the institutional front, the project
was intended to commercialize the newly established NHC - the key public housing agency.
11.   A total of 6,500 person-years of employment were to be created in housing, drainage and
small-scale industries. Two thousand houses and about 12,000 meters of road drains were to be
constructed. Key inputs including technical assistance and funding needs were identified and a
process for tracking project performance was defined.
12.   The project design was notjully compatible with these objectives. Under the housing
component, which represented almost 60 percent of project costs, the NHC was to develop
serviced residential plots for low and middle-income families who were to secure long-term
mortgages for the construction of houses from participating commercial banks. The banks were,
in turn, to be funded through the Housing Refinancing Facility (HRF) established under the SIP.
Including the Department of Finance and Planning (DFP); the National Housing Corporation (NHC); the
Department of Works (DOW); Department of Trade and Industry (DTI); the Small Business Development
Corporation (SBDC); the Construction Industry Unit (CIU); the Department of Personnel Management
(DPM); the National Capital District Interim Commission (NCDC); the Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG)
and five participating financial intermediaries; several provincial governments; the Structural Adjustment
Committee (SAPC); and UNDP/OPS.



-4-
13.   The rapid employment generation and disbursement objectives of the project called for a
more direct response on the production side rather than through a complex housing finance
mechanism more suited to reinforcing longer-term sustainability in a more mature housing
market. Moreover, the responsiveness to changing market conditions of such a mechanism under
public sector management and, hence, its contribution to sustainable housing sector
development, was not assured.
14.  It was unrealistic to expect rapid disbursements to be achieved largely through use of a
new and untried housing finance instrument and a public sector housing agency which had not
yet established a satisfactory implementation performance record, and which was, moreover,
experiencing severe management problems following reorganization as the newly incorporated
NHC. The incorporation of NHC, which took over the assets, liabilities and personnel of the
Department of Housing and the National Housing Commission was, effectively, a change in
name only. In addition, the BPNG had no experience with refinancing mechanisms for housing
mortgages except for staff training under an IMF-sponsored program geared to strengthening its
overall supervisory functions shortly before the project commenced. An expert in this area was
to be hired as a condition of effectiveness.
15.  In summary, the project lacked a sound logical framework which would have highlighted
the difficulties of achieving rapid implementation and disbursements with the instruments chosen
for intervention in the housing sector. Indeed, a six year disbursement period was projected at
appraisal for the composite project. Moreover, concern was expressed at appraisal by Peer
Reviewers over the risks of relying on weak institutions, the likely difficulties involved in
coordinating a large number of agencies, and the complex project design.
B. Achievement of Objectives
16.   Overall the achievement of the project objectives was rated as partial, primarily because
of the housing component which did not disburse as intended, failed to achieve any meaningful
level of employment generation or additional housing provision, and was therefore not extended
along with other components, at the time of the original loan closing date in December 1993.
The achievements of the project objectives are as follows:
17.   Employment objective. Total employment generation is estimated to have been 2,374
person-years, only 36 percent of the 6,500 person years targeted under the project, mainly
because of the failure of the housing component. The drainage component is estimated to have
provided 211,935 person days of employment through force account, equivalent to 1,000 person
years - about 6 percent above the target set for the drainage component. SBDC helped
entrepreneurs to establish 71 firms with 876 permanent employees in 1995 and 100 more with an
additional 340 permanent employees in 1996 for a total equivalent of 1,340 person/years of
employment to date. The direct of cost of job creation of the drainage works is roughly estimated
at US$9,800 per person/year which is high compared to other similar programs of this kind to
complement structural adjustment efforts also supported by the Bank in other countries. It is not
known if improving conditions in the economy at the time resulted in increased employment in



-5-
the housing and construction sectors without the intervention of the housing component of the
project.
18.   Physical objective. The project failed to meet its physical targets in the housing sector,
but significantly exceeded planned output levels in drainage works. Very few of the 2,000 new
homes targeted under the project were built. By contrast, a total of 101,287 meters of open road
side drains and 740.6 meters of culverts were constructed compared to the appraisal target of
12,000 meters of side drains. The drainage component was completed on time, within the
original budget and did disburse relatively quickly.
19.   Objective of establishing the Housing Refinancing Facility (HRF). The HRF did not
become operational as envisaged. For much of 1992 and 1993, the BPNG discount rate, to which
the refinancing mechanism was linked, was between 0.5% and 1.5% higher than commercial
banks' deposit rates and was, therefore, unattractive as a source of capital, even for longer-term
housing investment. In spite of successive amendments to the loan agreement - on February 6,
1991 to increase the number of participating financial intermediaries, and on August 5, 1992 to
make the HRF interest rate more attractive- only US$113,000 of the facility had been utilized
by the original loan closing date of December 31, 1993.
20.   According to NHC, notwithstanding the severe housing shortage at virtually all levels of
the income scale and the deteriorating condition of the existing housing stock, a negative
environment for new home construction existed at the time of project launch, partly because of
inappropriate, government-subsidized housing schemes.
21.   Technical assistance & institutional strengthening objectives. Because of institutional
difficulties and turnover of Managing Directors in NHC, the consulting firm originally retained
to advise on policy and system improvements was changed and subsequent advisors became
drawn increasingly into managing day-to-day operations instead. As a consequence, the
institutional objectives slated for NHC, were not achieved and capital needed for the serviced
sites program was not mobilized. However, reliance in the project design primarily on the HRF,
for which demand was negligible, was the more critical factor limiting the component's
contribution to achieving project objectives.
22.   The Government signed a Cooperation Agreement with UNDP/OPS in 1991 for the
administration of technical assistance and studies under the project and institutional development
objectives for SBDC were redefined during implementation to focus more broadly than on
extension services alone. Although, consultant advisors were mobilized fully two years later than
originally scheduled, the broader institutional strengthening goals were largely achieved and, for
example, SBDC now disseminates training programs to over 60 institutions through its Business
Development Network (see Annex B, Table 5). Although no impact assessment of the
effectiveness or impact of SBDC's or CIU's training programs has been undertaken, either under
this review or directly by the agencies, they appear to be in demand including from contractors.
It should be noted, however, that CIU is prohibited from charging for the training it provides and
SBDC recovered only 20 percent of its costs in 1996. Cost recovery is forecast to improve to
33 percent in 1997.



-6-
23.   Most of the studies under the TA component of the project were completed (see
Annex A, Table 7). Whilst, the then-Department of Transport, the then Department of Works and
the then Department of Civil Aviation were formally amalgamated as recommended in the
Infrastructure Sector Study, the new Department of Transport and Works (DOTW) continues to
face staff resistance to implementing the changes needed now to focus primarily on strategic
planning for the transport sector and oversight for quality control of infrastructure works and to
gradually relinquish operational functions to the provinces in line with the decentralization
policy under the New Organic Law. In addition, the recommendation of the Infrastructure
Sector Study that the new DOTW should commercialize its support to the provinces is no longer
an option in a number of provinces which, frustrated with long delays and high costs on DOTW
implemented projects, have strengthened their own capacity to mobilize the resources of a
relatively mature contracting sector in some areas. The task now at hand is to assess the staffing
and resource needs for infrastructure management and maintenance in each province and to
consolidate, as appropriate, operations by merging DOTW and Provincial Governments' staff
and equipment as a means to deploy technical, managerial and financial resources more
effectively. It will also be necessary to implement a retrenchment program, largely for surplus
DOTW staff in order to maximize the productivity of infrastructure development budgets at both
the national and provincial levels and the cost effectiveness of the new unified units.
24.   The Port Moresby Urban Services Study was not disseminated and reviewed by a
sufficiently wide group of "stakeholders". Even so, the study enjoyed very extensive
involvement by NCDC staff and has contributed to improved investment decisions. The NCDC
Storm Water Drainage Master Plan has served as a basis for investment plans which are under
preparation for OECF financing. Unfortunately, it does not reflect the "cluster" form of spatial
development which has been adopted for the region as recommended by the Port Moresby Urban
Services Study which was undertaken later.
25.   Project Costs and Financing. The appraised cost of the project was US$40.3 million, of
which the foreign exchange component amounted to US$26.1 million. The Bank loan financed
US$30.0 million or almost 75 percent. The loan was expected to be fully disbursed by
December 31, 1993. However, effective February 9, 1994, the Bank canceled US$12.4 million,
undisbursed under Category 1 for the housing component (about US$11.9 million), Category 4
for incremental operating costs in DTI (about US$0.5 million), and revised the disbursement
schedule. In 1995, the loan was amended again to finance the procurement of Bailey type
bridges for emergency use in the Highlands provinces and in Rabaul following the volcanic
eruption which caused substantial damage to the road system in the area. Disbursements totaled
US$17.4 million at the end of April 1997, after the grace period, following final loan closing on
December 31, 1996. The estimated actual cost of the project is US$18.4 million, though it
should be noted that no audits have been completed since 1994.
26.   Economic Impact. At appraisal no formal assessment of the economic benefit of the
project as a whole was carried out except for a preliminary study for the housing sector (Annex
A, Table 9). With respect to the drainage component, no formal assessment of the economic
impact has taken place either at appraisal or after completion. However, the drainage works are
expected to have a similar economic impact to road maintenance. A 1995 Road Inventory and



-7-
Road Maintenance Study for PNG road maintenance showed high incremental benefit-cost ratio
typically ranging from 2.5 to 5.8 for national paved and unpaved roads. The TA for the small
industry did not have an economic impact assessment. The ICR suggests an assessment at a
future date based on the criteria in para. 41.
27.   Procurement and disbursement. The Borrower took steps to create a better
implementation environment as evidenced by the changes it introduced in the procurement and
loan disbursement systems. Initially, contracts valued over one million Kina were being awarded
by the National Executive Council (NEC) and below one million Kina by the Central Tenders
Board. However, following the Bank's insistence on reducing the delays in procurement, the
Government created the Small Contracts Award Board to handle contracts with value between
one and three million Kina, above which contracts must be awarded by NEC. The introduction
of direct payment systems via procedure 3, and trust funds for counterpart funds was introduced
to improve the disbursement system. The procurement of emergency bridges and processing of
TA via UNDP/OPS benefited from the direct payments system. Trust funds, to handle the
counterpart funds, are now practiced with all donor-funded projects.
C. Factors Affecting Implementation
28.   Factors subject to government/implementing agency control. The initial delay in
appointing the Project Manager caused confusion in the various executing agencies. Weak
leadership and rapid turnover of Managing Directors in NHC and the lack of decisive action by
the Government to resolve issues related to NHC compounded the design problems of the
housing component and undermined the prospects of achieving a meaningful improvement in
NHC's institutional and operating performance.
29.   The good implementation performance of the drainage component in exceeding targets
under the project was possible because adequate institutional capacity at the Department of
Works was in place at the outset. In addition, improvements in procurement and disbursement
arrangements and the establishrnient of a Trust Account for counterpart funds noted above
markedly facilitated project implementation.
30.   Factors not subject to government/implementing agency control. Improved liquidity in
the domestic commercial banking system undercut the rationale of and need for the HRF. Efforts
made to compensate for the institutional weaknesses in NHC, which were recognized at project
appraisal, were not effective.
31.   The small industry component did not become operational until late 1993, because of a
lengthy review by UNDP/OPS of the objectives of technical assistance and studies under the
project. Even so, cooperation and greater transfer of experience from consultants to institutions
involved were achieved, particularly in SBDC, CIU and NCDC where strong support and
Government "ownership" was evident.



-8-
D. Project Sustainability
32.   As indicated above, benefits from the housing component were negligible, though
subsequent technical assistance has started to improve the commercial orientation of NHC.
33.   The sustainability of the considerable drainage improvements made under the project will
depend on the willingness of DOTW and provincial governments to commit adequate funding
for maintenance of roads and drains. No specific plans were in place for this at the time of project
completion, and indications were that budgets have been inadequate to date. However, the
Government's Medium-term Development Strategy for the infrastructure sector gives high
priority to road maintenance and donor assistance in this area is increasing. The transfer of
national roads to provincial governments will challenge the relatively modest capacity for road
maintenance operations that exists at present in most provinces.
34.   SBDC and CIU training programs remain dependent on allocations from the government
budget and donor support. Their sustainability is uncertain and ways must be found to increase
the level of cost recovery for services provided. Ultimately, the sustainability of these programs
will depend mostly on their effectiveness in creating jobs through enhancing entrepreneurs. In
this context, it is necessary for these agencies to institute arrangements to evaluate their training
activities including through feedback from their client market. Overall, sustainability of the
project is rated as unlikely.
E. Bank Performance
35.   Preparation and Appraisal. As noted above, the deficient design of the housing
component, in which the Bank has been closely involved, was a major cause of the poor
performance of the component and the project overall.
36.   Supervision. Bank performance during implementation is rated as generally satisfactory
if, perhaps, not sufficiently resolute in terminating a component as soon as it became clear that it
could not achieve the objectives set for it (i.e. the housing component). Close Bank supervision
was maintained throughout. As efforts to modify the refinancing mechanism for housing finance
in light of changing conditions became clearly ineffective, the Bank strongly recommended to
the Government that the housing component be canceled in order to minimize unnecessary costs,
including commitment fees under the Loan. However, the Government urged the Bank to allow
more time for a beneficial effect to materialize. For the drainage component, in particular, Bank
engineering expertise was present in each mission and promoted the participation of villagers in
the maintenance and rehabilitation works, a practice which has since become widespread and
which has helped to improve the effectiveness and reduce the cost of road maintenance
operations somewhat. The Bank closely followed the technical assistance studies in light of their
role in shaping sector policies and the effectiveness of infrastructure service delivery. The Bank
has provided detailed comments on each study as recommendations were reported and has
participated extensively in the dialogue on policy reforms proposed.



-9-
F. Borrower Performance
37.   Government performance varied by component and is rated as satisfactory for the
successful drainage component; deficient for the housing component; and only marginally
satisfactory for other components. Notwithstanding the strategic importance of the project in
ameliorating the hardship caused by the ongoing structural adjustments to the economy, once the
project was declared effective, government "ownership" of the project was not sufficiently
strong. The delay in the initial appointment of the Project Manager led to initial delays in project
implementation. SAPC did not meet on a sufficiently regular and frequently basis to give
effective guidance in resolving implementation issues which affected project performance,
especially in the housing component. Successive changes weakened the role expected to be
played by the Project Manager. Relatively few of the recommendations of the technical
assistance studies have been implemented to date, and opportunities to improve the effectiveness
of infrastructure delivery systems have been lost. On the positive side, the Government
recognized the need for stronger administration of TA under the project and contracted the
UNDP/OPS for this.
38.   Compliance with Loan Covenants. The loan covenants for the project focused mainly on
monitoring, reviewing and reporting of the activities of the implementing agencies. Generally,
the covenants were complied with after some delay. Only one covenant which required NHC
action plan was partially complied with. The audit reports for the project for 1991, 1992 and
1993 were received in September 1994. A recent Bank Mission reviewed the audit situation and
requested the Auditor General to undertake an audit as soon as possible for 1994 and 1995
G. Assessment of Outcome
39.   The housing component is assessed as highly unsatisfactory /deficient. The drainage
component is assessed as highly satisfactory in terms of the volume and the quality of the
construction work completed. However, the sustainability of these works is unlikely. Technical
assistance to SBDC and to CIU is assessed as satisfactory, though impact monitoring of their
training programs needs to be internalized in the operations of these agencies. The outcome of
the technical assistance studies is assessed as only marginally satisfactory due to the lack of
effective dissemination in some cases and insufficient action by the Government on
recommendations in general. Overall, the project outcome is judged deficient.
H. Future Operations
40.   Through the drainage improvements, the project has helped to focus attention on
management and maintenance of infrastructure assets and their contribution to economic
recovery and social development. The Government's Medium-term Development Strategy seeks
to transform this attention into a "core" government priority. Upcoming Bank support through
the proposed Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project and the proposed Highlands
Highway Rehabilitation Project, should start to make this strategy operational through support
for improved planning methods, increasing resource allocations, institutional changes affecting



-10-
national and provincial agencies and greater reliance on superior private sector management and
contract implementation capacity.
41.   The cost of generating employment and improving productivity through SBDC and CIU
programs must be reduced if they are to remain relevant. In monitoring their future operations,
the following indicators may be used to measure the impact of the services offered by SBDC-
and CIU-assisted enterprises: (i) the market share of the small industry sector, (ii) increase in
productivity, (iii) the quality of construction works undertaken, and its completion on time and
within budget, and (iv) availability of trained personnel.
I. Lessons Learned
42.   Experience under the Special Interventions Project provides many useful lessons for future
projects in Papua New Guinea and elsewhere:
(a) When project objectives are clear and stakeholder support is widespread, as in the
case of the drainage component, good implementation performance is an entirely
reasonable prospect in Papua New Guinea;
(b) In the preparation of projects, there is a clear need for consistency between project
objectives and project design as evidenced in the failure of the housing component;
(c) The design of the project should relate the short-term objectives to the overall policy
framework for the sector and any long-term sector reform effort. For example, in this
project the objectives of housing finance and the institutional interventions selected for
delivering this, were not compatible with Government's macroeconomic and structural
policy reforms;
(d) Institutional development through provision of consultant advisory services may fail to
deliver results in the absence of a stable operating environment characterized by
decisive and stable project management dedicated to well defined and widely agreed
objectives; and
(e) Project complexity, as reflected by a large number of participating agencies, must be
calibrated carefully in line with the Borrower's capacity, otherwise it may impose an
undue burden of oversight on the Borrower and adversely affect project performance as
it did in this case.



Annex A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES
(LOAN-3289-PNG)
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of obiectives             Substantial        Partial         Negligible        Not
applicable
(D          ~     ~     ~~(I  (I'           (D)
Macroeconomic policies                                                                         El a  LI
Sector policies                                                El L            VT              L
Financial objectives                          a                L                Z              L
Institutional development                    D                 Li              za
Physical objectives                          1P                                  I             L I
Poverty reduction                            El                                L 0I
Gender concerns                              LII               E l
Other social objectives/village contrct.                                                       13
Environmental objectives                     L                 a               LI
Public sector management                                       El I                            L I
Private sector development                   El                El              L               L
Economic benefits                            El               IZ                0              l
B. Proiect Sustainability                   Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
(D              (/)              (I)
LI               IZ               LI
C. Bank Performance                        Hiehlv
Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
(D)              (I)              (/I)
Identification                                                 El LI
Preparation assistance                                          ] L             2
Appraisal                                    El                L 
Supervision                                  L                                 LI
D. Borrower Performance                    Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
(e)             (/)              (I)
Preparation                                  E l                                0
Implementation                                a                13
Covenant compliance                           a                                 LI
Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
E. Assessment of Outcome                     (/)               (I)             (I)
OI               O 



- 12 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loan/Credits
Credit Title             Purpose            Year of        Status              Comments
approval
Preceding Operations:
Transport             Improve the transport     1986         Completed    The project outcome rated as
Improvement Project   sector                                 ICR No.       marginally satisfactory,
Loan 2742-PNG                                                15289         institutional development
moderate and sustainability as
uncertain.                   l
Structural Adjustment   Support Government's    1990         Completed    The PCR rated the project as
Loan 3218-PNG*        effort to undertake a                  PCR No.       unsatisfactory and its
program of                            13994         sustainability as unlikely.
macroeconomic                         (1992)        Institutional impact rated as
stabilization and                                   modest
structural reform
Following Operations:
Economic Recovery    Improve in macro-          1995         Second
Program (Loan 3934-   stabilization, fiscal                  Tranche
PNG)                  management, private                    released in
sector development and                January
supply response,                      1997; loan
sustainable development               closed on
& public service delivery             Jan.15, 1997
ICR under
preparation
*Special Interventions Project is considered as multi-sectoral, regional-urban project with major housing refinancing component in
support of the SAL (Loan 321 8-PNG)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                          Date planned             Date actual/
latest estimate/completed/
Identification                                  03/00/90                 03/7/90
Preparation                                     06/04/90                 09/04/90
Pre-appraisal                                   05/25/90                 07/4/90
Appraisal                                       09/27/90                 09/27/90
Negotiations                                    09/00/90                 12/13/90
Board Presentations                              10/16/90; 12/04/90      01/29/91
Signing                                         03/04/91                 03/18/91
Effectiveness                                   02/00/91                 07/15/91
Project Completion                              06/31/93                 12/31/96
Loan Closing                                     12/31/93                03/14/97



- 13 -
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY91   FY92       FY93   FY94   FY95          FY96       FY97
Appraisal estimate                      8       20        30
Actual                                 0.0      8.9       9.1 *   9.5      11.2       14.7       17.4
% of actual as percentage of appraisal  0       45        30      32      37          49         58
Revised/October 1991/                  2.0      10.0      22.0   30.**
Actual                                 0.0      8.9       9.1     9.5      11.2       14.7       17.4
% of actual as percentage of revised/  0        89        41      32      37          49         58
October 1991/
Revised/December 31,1993, after        2.0      10.0      9.1     17.6
cancellation
Actual                                 0.0      8.9       9.1     9.5      11.2       14.7       17.4
% of actual as percentage of appraisal  0       89        100    54       64          84         99
Date of final disbursement             March 14,1997
Undisbursed amount                     US$ 229,367.60
* US$12,386,817.05 of the loan canceled, of which USS12.0 million is housing and the balance from Incremental operating
costs.
** as of December 31, 1993



- 14 -
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation - Time Schedule
Key implementation indicators          Appraisal Estimates          Actual/estimates
Starting      Completion    Starting date    Actual/estimated
date          date                          Completion date_
|     MA. Land & Housing Development
1. New Plot Development
Port Moresby                     04/01/90      03/30/92       Not financed    Not financed
Mandag                           05/01/90      02/29/92       Not financed    Not financed
3. Hou siang eCs tructio
Existing PlotSales               09/01/90      04/30/92       Not financed    Not financed
O New PlotSales                  06/01/91      09/31/92       Not financed    Not financed
4 . Iustit uiona struectihon
|  On Existing Sites                 09/01/90      04/30/90       Not financed    Not financed
On New Sites                     07/01/91      10/31/92       Not financed    Not financed
l 4. Isitutional Strengthening
NHC Operations                   03/01/91      06/30/93       N/A             N/A
Studies                          07/01/91      06/30/93       09/93           05//95
Financial Accounting System      12/90         01/91          06/1992         N/A
Computerized Property
Management.
Capability Building in Physical &    02/91     05/93          10/1992         N/A
Planning, Eng. and Customary and
Acquisition
Human Resource Development       09/90         04/93          06/92           N/A
Business Development &           03/90         06/93          N/A             N/A
Marketing
B. Drainage
1. Physical Improvements            06/01/91       12/31/92      05/10/91        12/31/92
2. DOW Management Studies           11/01/91       06/30/93      08/28/95        12/31/96
(modified)
C. Industrial Technical Assistance
1. SBDC                             11/01/91      06/30/93       11/01/94        12/31/96
2. DTI/CIU/*                        10/01/91       04/30/92      05/00/93        12/31/96
lD. DFP  - Management & Monitoring      11/01/91      06/30/93      01/11/1994       12/31/96
(strengthen areas in planning, project
management, implementation and aid
management)
Source: Revised mission initial mission estimates, October 1991
* Initially only SBDC was the agency specifically included at appraisal. Technical assistance to Construction Industrial Unit (CIU)
was added at the request of DTI .
N.A = Not Available



- 15 -
Table 5b: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators   Estimated                      Actual
Enhanced Employment          6,500 man-years                   2,374 man-years*
Housing Construction
Drainage Works             200,000 man-days for 4300 jobs   211,935 man-days for 4138 jobs
Small Scale Industry
No.of persons assisted                                    In 1995 -1746; in 1996 2000
Business Start-Up                                         In 1995 -71 ; in 1996 100
New jobs                                                  In 1995- 876; in 1996 340*
Physical Targets
NHC-Housing Constr.       Refinancing for 2000 households    Nil
DOW/NCDC-Drainage         12,000 meters side drainage      740.6 meters of Culverts completed
101,287 meters open side drains
completed
Financial Targets
Revenue from service
SBDC                    N/A                               1995-K314,000; 1996 K323,000
(9/30/96)
CIU                     N/A                               1996- K 50,000 generated from registered
contractors. CIU has now registered 122
contractors including the 36 contractors
registered initially
Training service provided
SBDC-No. of persons                                         In 1995 -1746; in 1996 -2000 trained
CIU- No. Contractors                                        In 1995 &1996 286 contractors trained;
CIU- Staff Training        4 trained staff                  6 technical and professional staff of CIU
and 17 other senior staff of Department of
Commerce and Industry were also
trained.
Studies
NCDC                       1. Storm Water Drainage Master   1. Storm Water Drainage Master Plan
NCDC                       Plan.                            2 Port Moresby Urban Services Study
DOW/DOT                    2. Port Moresby Urban Services   3. Infrastructure Sector Study
Study
Institutional Strengthening
DFP                          Management Training               30 people received management training-
DFP                          TA for Loan and Revenue Division   Provided
DFP                          TA for Planning- Institutional    Provided
Strengthening



- 16 -
Key implementation indicators    Estimated                                 Actual
Institutional strengthening
NHC                                Areas to be strengthened:               1. Financial Accounting & Property
1. Business Planning and Marketing   Management
2. Property Register Development        2. Marketing and Corporate Planning
and Installation                        3. Human resource Develop.& Mgmt.
3. Management Information System    4. Physical planning, Engineering,
4. Marketing Research Studies           Surveying and Customary Land
5. Financial and Accounting System    Acquisition
Development/Installation
6. Manpower Audit
7. Institutional and Manpower
Development and Training
8. Customary Land Mobilization
Legal Advisory Services
9. Technical Quality Improvement
10. Housing Design Solutions
Studies
BPNG                               TA for the operation of the HRF         Provided
* Between 1995 and 1996 SBDC may have created an estimated total 1374 man-year of employment through the jobs it created.
This is estimated as (1/2 of 876 + 876 +1/2 of 340)= 1374 man-years. The Drainage works represents some 1000 man-years.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation*
Item                                      1995                             1997 Plan
SBDC
Number of people assisted                 1746                             3000
Business Start-ups                        71                               125
New job created                           876                              400
Revenue from Service provided             K3 14,000                        k600,00
The operation plans for the other components is quantitatively not available .



- 17 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                 Propose as defined at
|               ~~~~~~appraisal/redefined            Status            Impact of Study
I1. NCDC-Stormn Water  Address short and Long term needs.    Completed.    Provided training for
Drainage Master Plan                                                       NCDC staff, working on
project as counterpart staff.
2. NCDC- Port         Assist NCDC to plan and provide     Completed.       NCDC's capacity to better
Moresby Urban         adequate infrastructure and services to               guide the development of
Services Study        cope further growth and demand.                      the city has been enhanced.
Counterpart staff got
experience in preparation
of basic plans.
3. DOW/DOT            Improve effectiveness and efficiency    Completed.    The recommendation of the
Infrastructure Sector    of the country's institutions, develop             study is being
Study                 strategies for each activity and the                  implemented.
means to achieve the agreed strategy.
4. NHC- Housing       Reduce housing costs and make       Changed at the    Housing finance specialist
Cost Study            housing more accessible to lower   request of the     retained instead to help
income groups.                     Government.       NHC to strengthen its
institution.
5. NHC/DFP - Socio-   Study to determine affordability/   Completed.        The study was done by
economic Studies      housing construction cost/policy                      UPNG.
review.
6 .NHC- Housing       Provide affordable design.         N/A.              Not financed under the
Design Solutions                                                           loan.
7. Feasibility Studies    Prepare a follow-on project.   N/A.               Not financed under the
/NHC/                                                                       loan.



- 18 -
Table 8A: Project Costs (US$ million)
Category                                   Appraisal estimnate           Actual or latest estimates
Local  Foreign        Total   Local      Foreign        Total
1. Housing Component* (excluding TA)     8.6     12.4         20.9    0.09        0.11          0.20
2. Drainage
Physical Improvement                     2.5      0.5          7.5      3.4        6.3           9.6
3. Equipment for NHC, SBDC DFP                    0.5         0.5.      0.0         1.6          1.6
4. *Incremental Operating Costs         0.13      0.4          0.6      0.0         0.0          0.0
5. Consultant Services and Studies       1.9      5.9          7.8      1.5         5.4          6.9
6. Unallocated except Category (1)       1.1       1.9         2.9       0           0             0
Total Project Cost                 14.2     26.1         40.3      5.0        13.4         18.4
* US$ 12,356,817.05 was canceled from the above items as of February 6,1994.
Table 8B: Project Financing (US$ million)
Appraisal estimate                Actual/estimates
Sources                            Local  Foreign       Total      Local   Foreign      Total
GOI                                0.99   -             0.99       1.0      0.0         1.0
Participating Financial Institutions  4.00    -         4.00       0.0      0.0         0.0
Homeowners                         5.34   -             5.34       0.0      0.0         0.0
IBRD                               3.90   26.10         30.00      4.0      13.4        17.4
Total                               14.23  26.10        40.33    | 5.0      13.4        18.4



- 19-
Table 9: Economic costs and benefits
Scenario                                         Appraisal EIRR (%)            Actual EIRR
(%)
Housing Component:
Lowest Cost Solution (150 m2 plot, L15)                42.5%                       N/A
Medium Cost Solution (300m2 Plot, L40 minimum
finish)                                                37.2%                       N/A
Highest Cost Solution( 40m2 plot, L40 high finish)
28.3%                      N/A
Composite of low, Medium and High Cost Solution        35.3%                       N/A
Drainage:                                               N/A            Incremental cost-benefit ratio
of 2.5 to 5.8 for national paved
and unpaved roads*
* Based on BECA, Road Inventory and Road Maintenance Study of PNG, 1995.
Source: Project File Solution BI(f) 30 years Economic Analysis - PNG Housing . (Revised, Nov. 1990).



- 20 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section            Covenant   Present  Original               Revised    Description of Covenant                Comments
type         status    fulfillment date    fulfill-
ment
date
Loan           Section 4-            9          C      Before loan                     No disbursement from HRF until        Agreement signed on June 1991
schedule I                             effectiveness                   commercial banks sign participation
agreements
Schedule 3.1         9          C      Before loan                     Government to sign subsidiary          Agreement signed on April 25, 1991. On
(c)                                    effectiveness                   agreement with BPNG for housing    07/15/94, the Bank formally notified
refinancing facility( HRF)            that the subloan for HRF is not
extended.
Schedule 5.1         9         CP      Start 11/90 as                  NHC to carry out Institutional         Agreement underway with UNDP for
(A)                                    per SAR Annex                   strengthening action agreed with       TA consultants management
4                               the Bank
Schedule 5.1         9         CD       11/90                          Early employment of Project            PM appointed (12/91); started (03/92).
(B)                                                                     Manager                               Delay led to confusion among
implementing agencies. A second PM
(2/94) to work with UNDP/OPS
Schedule 5.2         9         CD       12/31/90                       Cause NHC to adopt no later than       NHC Board approved Policy Statement
(B)                                                                     12/31/90 a policy strategy            (6/91)
acceptable to Bank
Schedule 5.3         9         CD       03/31/91                       employ consultant for supervision      Consultant appointed after delay
(A)
Schedule 5.4         9         CD      Nov. 1994                       by 03/31/91 employee consultants    Selection of consultants (1991/1992)
required for SBDC                     underway. UNDO Reassessed needs
C= Compiled with  CD= Complied after delay  NC= Not complied With     Soon+ Compliance expected in reasonable short time CP=Complied with Partially   NYD=not yet due
l=Accounts/audits                                            6= Environmental covenants                           7. Involuntary resettlement
2=Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  8=lndegenous people                                9=Monitoring, review and reporting
3= Flows and utilization of project funds                     I O=project implementation not covered by category 1-9
4= Counterpart funding                                        I 1= Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5= Management aspects of the project or the executing agency  12=Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action 13=Other



- 21 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                      Description and comment on lack of compliance
None                                            No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank
manual statements observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle            Stafflweeks                      US$ ('000)
Through Board                     85.6                             249.1
Board Effectiveness                14.2                            41.8
Supervision                       99.6                             318.4
Completion                        5.8                              18.1
Total                             205.2                            627.4



- 22 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of project cycle   Month/    No. of  Staff-    Specialized staff   Implementation  Development   Types of problems
year       person   weeks in    skills represented  status         impact
s       field (Cum)
Through appraisal    07/04/90    10                  Division Chief, ME,
Agri., FA (3), Eng.
Cr., Arch., IS.
Appraisal through    08/27/90   4                    FA (2), Arch, IS
Board
1. Board approval    02/15/91    ?      0.0                              1               I             Loan not effective; GOPNG limited
through effectiveness/                                                                                  absorptive capacity was foreseen
Supervision/
2. Board approval    03/29/91    1       3.0         E. Staffini-Const.                                 Loan not effective. GoPNG absorptive
through effectiveness/                                                                                  capacity for investment for complex
supervision/                                                                                            preparation, procurement and
implementation procedures
3. Supervision       07/02/91    4       0.0         E. James-TM         2               1              Overall project implementation, except
H. Boldrick-HS                                     for SBDC was going well. Delay due to
H. Unger-ME                                        review of strategy by DTI. NHC
L.Pean- E                                         completed its audit.
4. Supervision       10/09/91    3       7.8         E. James-TM         2               1
H.Boldrick-HS
R.Scheiner-ENG.
5. Supervision       12/20/91    3       13.2        E.Peterson-A/P      2               2              Onlending formula impediment
(Cons)                                            constraining the implementation of HRF
G.Faillace- BS
H.Boldrick -FA
6. Supervision       07/31/92    2       6.0         L.Pean-E            2               2              Base line studies for PNG social
R.Scheiner-ENG                                     indicators data and monitoring faces
(Cons).                                            problem of payment. IBRD &
GOPANG agreed on new HRF formula.
SIP Project manager started in March.
good progress
7. Supervision       05/07/93    2       1.5         A.Byl-TM /E         2               2



- 23 -
R.Scheiner-ENG
(Cons).
8. Supervision        08/07/93    1       2.8         A.Byl-TM /E           2               2              NHC Technical assistance progress
slow.; Situation unsettled at NHC
9. Supervision        10/18/93                                              2               2              Portfolio Status update
10. Supervision       12/05/93    2       0.0         A.Byl-TM /E          2                2              Non-extension of closing date for
R.Scheiner-ENG                                      categories I and 4 (Housing Refinancing
(Cons).                                             Subloans and Incremental Operating
Costs). Slow implementation of TA.
11. Supervision       05/14/94    2       0.0         A. Byl-TM /E R.       S               S              Project execution continue at a snail's
Scheiner-ENG                                        pace because of continued disagreement
(Cons).                                             on housing and small business
development policy. Rating based on
"restructured" components.
12. Supervision       08/11/95    2       5.2         A. Byl-TM /E R.       S               S Rating based  NCDC service study, TA for DOW,
Scheiner-ENG (Cons                   on             DOT & DCA yet to be completed.
"restructured"
component
13. Supervision       03/11/95    2       0.0         A. Byl-TM /E          U               U For the
R.Scheiner-ENG                       Whole Project
(Cons
14. Supervision       10/13/95    2       0.0         A.Byl-TM /E           S               U For the      Government requested postponement of
R.Scheiner-ENG                       Whole Project  project by a year to allow for UNDP TA
(Cons                                               to CIU & SBDC. Bailey Bridge LC
opened after Bank meditation.
15. Supervision       03/13/96    2       0.0         A. Byl-TM /E          S               U For the
R.Scheiner-ENG                       Whole Project
(Cons
16. Supervision       06/21/96    2       0.0         A. Byl-TM /E          S               U
R.Scheiner-ENG
17. Supervision       07/00/96            0.0                               S               U              Portfolio Status update.
18. Supervision       12/06/96            0.0                                                              Portfolio Status update.
19. Completion        03/15/96
TA-Task Manager  HS-Housing Specialist  ME-Municipal Engineer  E-Economist   EN- Construction Engineer   (Cons) Consultant  BS-Banking Specialist
FA-Financial Analyst ENV.-Environmental Specialist, Arc. Architect. IS- Institutional Specialist



- 24 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX B: STATISTICAL TABLES
(LOAN-3289-PNG)
Table 1: Program of Special Interventions
Donor Financing
Component                                               Total cost             Amount                Percent
A. ADB - financed
Health and water supply                                 13.2                  10.6                  80
Medical supplies                                        3.6                   3.6                   100
Agriculture extension and research                      15.6                  12.5                  80
B. IBRD - financed
Housing                                                 23.7                  14.3                  61
Road drainage                                           11.3                  10.5                  92
Small industry TA                                       2.6                   2.5                   98
Management and monitoring                               2.7                   2.7                   100
C. EEC - financed
Road drainage                                            4.1                   4.1                  100
Total /a                                                76.8                 60.8                  79.1
La In addition the AIDB would be contributing S5.2 million to a police housing scheme (total cost =USS6.2 million)
Table 2: Amendments to the Loan Agreement of SIP*
Loan Category _                                        Dollar Equivalent                                           l
Initial Schedule    Amendment of    % of Expend. to be financed
(March 18,1991)  loan Agreement
Revised Schedule
=______________ _  =(April  14, 1995)  l
I1. Long-term Mortgage financing (part A.l)**      12,000,000        113,182.95   75% of eligible mortgage loans
2. Drainage ( Civil work under C)                   8,500,000          8,900,000.00   90%                          l
a) Force account                               5,500,000       6,776,046.56   90%
b) Other procurement procedures                3,000,000        1,923,953.44   90%
3. Equipment for:                                    500,000           1 500,000   100% of LC & Fx; 8S5%of local
expenditure
a) NHC(B. 1),
b) Small Industry (TA, Computer, D)
c) Proj. Mangt. & Monitoring TA,
Computer E. I)
4. Incremental operating costs( under D/A of the     500.000                      90%/9 in FY 1991 & FY 1992, &
Project*                                                                          50% thereafter
5. Consultants' services and studies                7,400,000         7,300,000   100%
6. Unallocated (except Category (1))                1,100,000                0 .
The loan was amended in February, 1991 to add new financial institutions - lndosuez Niugini Bank Ltd. and
PNG Home Finance; also in August, 1992 to change BPNG's variable discount rate basis for HRF.
**USS12,356,817.05 was canceled from the above items in February, 1994.



- 25 -
Table 3: Open Drains Completed
Total Length and Average Unit Cost By Type & Province
(length in meters, average unit cost in Kina)
Size and Type
Province         Unlined    1        2       3        4        5       6         7        8        9          Kerb &
l ______________   _________         ______                                       _______  _______ ______III   Channel
Westem                                                    60                                                         1450
381                                                          108
Gulf                            74    614
Ccnt;a               16600 I           217     2884                                 250
3             72       132                                 184
Milne Bay                                       600
32
Oro                                             300     1500...
49       59
S.Hiighiands           180.. .....
100
Enga                                                     100                                                          500
----    -- - 82                                                         58
W.Highlands           1520                              1997                                                          428
7                                68                                                           68
Simbu                                          1200
.                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~14
E.Highlands                                     350      500               200
59       45                72
Morobe                                            .    7853    650         300      100
101    117       373       587
Mandang                                        2600      900               800               200
44       52               157               343
| E. Sepik                                                      1459       230
1   .                                            ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~181  137
W. Sepik                                       2031     1883                        450
-------    ----93     117                        218
Manus                                                                     1940
70
New Ireland                                   13630
58
E. New Britain                1030 030    1805    226                                                    120 
25      27       91                                                      125
W.New Britain                                 17418                        705                         2895
41                         54                           37
NCDC                                             75    2223      390        40                65                     3845
88       58    122        578               238                       77
Total Length         18300    1104   3636   43214i   1801i6   2499        421i35    800      265         3015        6223
AvUnitRate               4      30      46       57       86    155        114      253      317          41           82
Total length of open drains completed =101,287 meters
Source: Department of Works, PNG December 1992 (end of construction)



- 26 -
Table 4: Steel and concrete Culverts Completed
Total Length and Average Unit Cost By Type & Province
(length in millimeters & meters, average unit cost in Kina)
Culvert Diameter (mm)
450      600      750    900       1050      1200     1500     1800    2100    2400       2700     3000+
Province\Type     ____      ___      ___                       ___                ___
IWestern
Gulf                                                                                              .
920
Central                8       31               46                 27        3   99878                            1        3
3868    2088              3318              9819      7350                               18434    9328
Milne Bay      1----------------- ------  -------- --------- ------- -----------------------------------------  -------
------ 1200    1500    2100                 4200 -
I r 0-o  1------------  1 2     1 4              2 1       9       1 3        1        1
529     1325             3950    2843      6974    12900    3500
S. Highlands                    2                13                 2                 2
1975             4644             12150             23889
Enga                                                     100                                             3
82                                        31973
W. Highlands          32        2
619    13860
Simbu                  5           .                                         6
851                                       32817   24061
E.Highlands                     3
4896
Morobe 
Mandang                3       31     119       66                 17
1442     1279   1666    3125                6888
E. Sepik                                          5                                                      2                 6
7501                                                 40000              29554
W. Sepik                                2                           8
7367                       9100
Manus                           3-9                             96303
1800             3261                                                           28000
New Ireiand           12       77                 2                                                       - - - ------ -----------
3948    4043              6000
E. N. Britain                   7                33                 2        3
1186             1556              1567    2244
W. N. Britain                  69               30      - - -       -  - - ----- 12  - -7---- - ------ - ------------------------
2610             3619              6380    4253       5819   12214
NCDC
Totalno                       25       3       230                 96                   -- ------- -------- --------- -------
Av. Unit Rate       1570    2743    1735      3267     2843      7942     9483    10216   12214   35184   23217   22812
Length in meter     32.4    150.6  100.5       207      9.45    115.2     37.5      28.8    14.7      12.0      5.4     27.0
Total number of culverts = 856, total length 740.6 meters
Source: Department of Works, PNG December 1992 (end of construction)



- 27 -
Table 5: Expenditure on Drainage
____ ____ ___ _   __ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___ ____ ___ (K ina)
Estimates                               Actual
1991 Kina   1992 Kina   1991 Kina   1992 Kina   Total Kina      No. Jobs     Total Man
Province                                                                          Created      Days
Worked
Westem               50.000      214000        50998      214254         265252          126          4068
Gulf                      0            0           0            0             0            0             0
Central              675700        19300      679751       18309         698060          198          5617
Milne Bay             91000            0       91000           0          91000           55          2082
Oro                  161000        79000      141328       78761         220089          387          9179
S.Highlands           99000            0       99000           0         99000           440          9032
Enga                  73000        63000      847966       60888         145684           74          5111
W.Highlands               0            0
Simbu                 74900       98500        78582      103880         182462          296          8081
E.Highlands           79000        21000       68673       10000          78673           35          6922
Morobe               650000            0      916879           0         916879           96         20094
Mandang             1230000      713000      1231848      761015        1992863          681         45188
E. Sepik             295000      231000       295000      235242         530242          233         24446
W. Sepik             232600        29000      200836       20238         221074          181         11201
Manus                250000       191000      309179      190549         499728          106          9682
New Ireland          446100       236600      519588      278132         797720         1168         13283
E. N. Britain        139300            0      155139            0        155139           66          2400
W. N. Britain        496000       324600      506163      545773        1051936          840         40424
NCDC                 905000       176900      728060      142433         870493          323          7250
DOW Overheads         50000       22000         5043       27938          32981
Const.Supervisio     145400       340000      148941      343748         492689
n                                                     I                         I
Total              66143000     2776900       631804    3031160         9341964         4138        211935
Source: Department of Works, PNG December 1992 (end of Construction)
* Some of the expenditure reported in 1992 is transferred from EC component 1991.
Table 6: SBDC and CIU Performance Indicators
Item                                        1995                  1996 as of 9/30/1996   1996 Plan    1997 Plan
SBDC
Number of people assisted                   1746                  1020                 2000           3000
Business Start-ups                         71                     61                    100           125
New job created                            876                    340                  300            400
Revenue from Service provided             |K314,000               K323,000             k400,000       k600,000
CIU                                        _                      _                    __   _ _  _
Number of contractors trained                                     27                   27
Business Start-ups                         -                      10                    10
New jobs created                                                  N/A                  N/A
Contractors Registered (total)             36                     122                   122
Revenue from registered contractors 1996                          K50,000              K50,000



- 28 -
Table 7: Business Development Networks (Staff number, Kina)
Business Technology Development Institute                          No. of Professional Staff   1996 Annual Budget (Kina)
Appropriate Technology Development Institute                       7                        150,000
Business Enterprise Support Team                                   9                        180,000
Coffee Industry Corporation                                        N.A                      N.A
Construction Industry Unit                                         7                        400,000
Ministry Commerce and Industry                                     118                      3,575,000
Enga Provincial Administration                                     10                       150,000
East New Britain Provincial administration                         10                       130,000
Manus Provincial Administration                                    14                        109,000
Morobe Provincial Administration                                   23                       266,600
North Solomon's Provincial Administration                          N.A                      N.A
Sandaun Provincial Administration                                  8                        130,000
Simbu Provincial Administration                                    7                        N.A
East Sepik Provincial Administration                               I 1                      37,500
Eastem Highlands Admin.                                            7                        30,000
Milne Bay Provincial Adm.                                          16                       213,900
New Ireland Provincial Adm.                                        18                        170,000
Westem Provincial Adm.                                             17                       270,000
Madang Provincial Adm.                                             15                       57,000
Southem Highlands Provincial Adm.                                  12                       300,000
Westem Highlands Provincial Adm.                                   N.A.                     N.A.
Oro Provincial Adm.                                                7                        183,700
Central Provincial Adm.                                            12                       242,500
Morobe Provincial administration. Adm.                             14                       480,348
Gulf Provincial administration                                     8                        209,800
Westem Highlands. Adm.                                             38                       360,000
Department of Home Affair                                          4                        134,000
PNG Chamber of Commerce                                            N.A                      N.A
University of Technology, Lae                                      5                        50,000
Frederick Ebert Stiftung-Germany                                   21                       80,000
Industrial Centres Dev. Corp.                                      29                        1,500,000
East New Britain-Information Division                              23                       N.A
Investment promotion Authority, MCI                                12                       4,113,053
Kum-GIE Consult Limited                                            10                       N.A
Lae Technical College Dept. of Education                           5                        300,000
Landowner Awareness Project: Dept. of Environs and Conservation/GTZ  8                      500,000
Liklik Dinau/Abitore Trust                                         16                       72,000
Management Development Centre, UNTech Dev. Consultancy             20                       2,000,000
Manufacturers Council of PNG                                       3                        200,000
Manus Small Business Association: PNG National Business Association  N.A                    N.A
National Alliance of Non-Govemment Organization                    5                        N.A
National Voltaire Service                                          13                        600,000
New Guinea Islands Contractors association                         4                         1,000
New Ireland business Training School                               4                        20,000
Paconsult Pty Ltd                                                  4                         100,000
PNG Biodiversity Conservation and Resource Management Program      10                        1,000,000
PNG chamber of Mines and petroleum                                 6                        550,000
PNG Growers Association                                            2                        60,000
PNG Business Association                                           2                        N.A
PNG Tourism Promotion Authority, GOPNG                             23                       3,000,000
Port Moresby Chamber of commerce & Industry, PNG CC&I              I                        60,000
Rural Development Bank of PNG                                      260                       10,000,000
Skul Bilong Stuakipa V/C, Division of Education/ Catholic Agency   5                        32,000
Small Business Development Corporation, MCI                        60                       2,000,000
Small Industries Centre, SBDC                                      6                        600,000
Smallholder Rural Projects Managent Co Pty Ltd, Rural Dev. Bank of PNG   50                  1,900,000
Talili Business Association, East New Britain Business Association  N.A                      2.000
Unitech Development & Consultancy pty. Limited, PNG U. of Technology   20                    2,000.000
Village Development Trust                                          N.A                      N.A
Westem Highlands Chamber of Commerce, PNG CC& Industry             N.A                      N.A
W.Highlands Prov. Business Association, PNG National Business Assn.  2                      N.A.
Women in Fisheries Development Program, National Fisheries authority  3                     N.A.
Women's Division, Departments of home Affairs                      13                       N.A.
Total (excludinig data not avuiable)                              1037                     36,519,403
Source: SBDC: 1996 Directory of Business Development Organization. Guide to business assistance in PNG.



- 29 -
Table 8: Technical Assistance for Special Interventions Project
(US Dollars/ person-months)
Project Components                      Total       1992        1993        1994        1995       1996
AMT                                                                     l
Expert (US dollars)                       2433366           0      109081      347646    1031339         945300
(person-months)                        184.9          0         7.4        25.5       81.0           71.0
National professionals (US dollars)         191333          0       24741       48592       61000         57000
(person-months)                        38.0           0        10.0         8.0       12.0            8.0
UN Volunteers (US dollars)                 105000           0          00           0          0         105000
(person-months)                        36.0           0          0           0           0           36.0
Official Travel (US dollars)                76871           0           0        2871      34000          40000
Review mission cost (US dollars)            41813           0        2823        8990      20000          10000
Sub-total expenditure (US dollars)        2876558           0      136645      409274    1158339        1172300
(person-months)                        258.9           0        17.4        33.5       93.0          115.0
Subcontractors (UNCHS, ILO, etc.)          635051           0       66528      178523      360000         30000
(US dollars)
Training (US dollars)                      450,614          0       32028       51106     232480         135000
Equipment (US dollars)                      152918          0        8727       60065      37126          47000
Miscellaneous (US dollars)                  101548          0         687        4886      42000          53975
Total (US dollars)                        4216689           0      244615      703854    1829945        1438275
(person-months)                         258.9          0         17.4       33.5        93.0          115.0
Financing:
Loan 3289-PPG                             3826349           0      244615      703854      547300       2330580
Govt. Cost Sharing Fin. Mgmt.              275000           0           0           0           0        275000
Total                                     4101349           0      244615      703854      547300       2605580
Covering UNDP's contribution                115340          0           0           0    1282645       -1167305
Sources: UNDP: Technical Assistance for the Special Interventions Project, PNG/92/013/1/01131
*Situation as last revised on: 10/05/96. As of the date, the UNDP has not claimed the total amount. No data available of the present
situation.






MAPECON



I                                            I



EBRD 22612
144-                                                                                                         Iso.                                                 153-
WES 7.                                                                                                                                              LAVONGAI
S E P / K               EAST  SEPIK                                                                                                                  -o
Bis m o rck    Sea                                                                       TABOR
ISLANDS
Aitope           i                                                                                                                                                                           < LIHIR GROUP
NEW IRELAND
-'  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AG SAD
\e~,o6                                                                    M  A    l U  S                   NEW        IRELAND                                                  - TANGA 15LANDS
.j     @                       ~~~j _.                                                                                                                                 ", N_  Isno
r                                                                                                        > _ ___ 1-- - ^- \ tR -FENI ISLANDS
* _-\                                             xM   A    D    A    N    G                      /                                                                                                            BOUGAINVILLE
M A  D A  NG                                *
~- n/X/  WEST NEW   BRITA/N                                                           i
ENGA                         ^               (   Mcdo.g                                                              Tlas I        Hosk                                                                    Buko0
\  .HGHLAND5                                                                                        \i.sk.s 
*~~~  Togabe    A'K5be M-
' '-<         Heogovoft, TogobIpP;A  X  /                --   t -                                                  ,   -                                              j            i b
Kiunga~~~'                            -;<t                                                                                                   n   ueoS, -~  N     < .EW  BRITAIN 
0   A ~    ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ES
.1ib                                                                                                          NEWASER)  EW BR/TA/N
j   OUrH'ERIV1                                       ,      /     \    >         
HI 'GH A NDS   E)\E,j                                   at\                                                                                       A S T
HIGH_ A ANS                 S            MOROSE
Me.yomsyo    ulol                                                                                                  PAPUA  NEW  GUINEA
WEkS.T. ko.i                                                                                                                       SPECIAL INTERVENTIONS PROJECT
W fS I o S*  Housing Sites
K -6Ao                       i                          ; . _ _  _  _                                           _    _ _ ._. _ _ ................... _ ._ v _ ....... _ _ _ ._ ... - -.  -  ....... _ Ports
i \. \ NORTHEf RN                      j                           t    ................ Airports
jI-V.ORTHERA-I ................... % ....... / . .                    Nationol Roads
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Major Provincial Rocads
B*,*no  ~ ~    ~    opdetMILNE  SAY                                                                 -       Rvs
rInat          Kokout~                                      /              BAY                               Mountainous Areas (2,000-3,000 meters)
Doru                                                                                                   - _  N  -- -                                          -  ---   Province Boundaries
-   >     '.              (Oo Bov 0         -                                        - _ B  _   International Boundaries
G U I    F                                                                                                                             __    _   _   __   _   _   __    _   _
-.          -. _  _        N                G/J V                                 - f        M _ no.r-..                         /                                                                     PvI I PIE
!PORTMORESY                                                                                                                      PHILIPPINES
MALAYSIA-
CENTRAL   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  (\7i*NJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                            -, ~~~~~~PAPUJA
# CfNFRAI > C_ <; -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  N                                                  D)  o    N1  E    5    I  CA
.  r__rrlrrl-r-*-r F40    80   120   A60    Kue,ono -                                       lotosou        -1
KILOMETERS I0
-                  =                                         20   40  6o0  RD  tOO                                                                 0aye AvooEAxp
147'                 C O  r a       e I  S e a  j                                                                 A U S T R A L         I  A
SEP'TEMBER Iv.O









IMAGING
Report No.:          16795
Type.     ICR



