Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13090
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
MAY 27, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MENXC
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currncy Unit
Mexican Peso (Mex$)
Currency Exchange Rates during Implementation:
(yearly averages)
Year                       Mex$/ US$
1979 (SAR)                    22.50
1980                         23.01
1981                         24.48
1982                         48.01
1983                         120.06
1984                        167.64
1985                        228.11
1986                        575.40
1987                        1353.70
1988                        2281.00
1989                        2464.00
1990                        2821.00
1991                        2950.00
Source: World Bank
N=:       All US$ values in this report should be understood as US$ equivalent.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGSAL I    -    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan I (Loan 2918-ME)
AGSAL 11   -    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan II (Loan 3357-ME
CFE         -    Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (Federal Electricity Commission)
CIANO       -    Centro de Investigaciones Agropecuarias del Noroeste (The Northwestern
Center for Agricultural Research); previously named CIAPAN
CIAPAN      -    Centro de Investigaciones Agropecuarias del Pacffico Norte (Agricultural
Research Center for the North-West); now named CIANO
CIMMYT    -    Centro Internacional para el Mejoramiento del Mafz y el Trigo
(International Center for Improvement of Maize and Wheat)
CNA               Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (National Water Commission)
CRF         -    Comisi6n del Rio Fuerte (Rio Fuerte Commission)
DES          -    Delegaci6n del Estado de Sinaloa (Sinaloa State Delegation)
DH           -    Departamento de Hidrologfa (Hydraulics Department)
EO          -    Executive Office
ERR         -    Economic Rate of Return
IDB         -    Inter-American Development Bank
IDSP        -    Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project (Loan 3419-ME)
INIA        -    Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias (National Institute
for Agricultural Research) -- mereged into INIFAP
INIFAP      -    Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales, Agrfcolas y Pecuarias
(National Institute for Research on Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock)
OIH         -    Oficina de Infraestructura Hidraulica (Hydraulic Engineering Office)
PCR         -    Project Completion Report
SAR         -    Staff Appraisal Report
SARH        -    Secretarfa de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (Ministry of
Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                                   May 27, 1994
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Mexico
Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project (Loan 1706-ME)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mexico-Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa krigation Project
(Loan 1706-ME). Parts I and III were prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office,
with agronomic and economic inputs from FAO/CP, and Part II by the Borrower.
The predecessor project, Rio Sinaloa I (Ln. 970-ME), encountered major problems and was
redefined, dropping 72% of the command area. When the dam was completed, it impounded water for
which there was no canal network. Nearby, large areas of the Rio Fuerte scheme were going out of
production due to salting and canal-infrastructure deterioration caused by lack of maintenance. The project
aimed to build 76,000 ha. of irrigation infrastructure that should have been developed under Loan 970.
While waiting for these canals to be finished, the project aimed to use the surplus water to flush and
reclaim 60,000 ha. of salty lands in the Rio Fuerte command. Moreover, financing of deferred
maintenance on another 60,000 ha was to restore this deteriorating area.
Counterpart funding crises and some contracting problems seriously delayed implementation. The
Rio Sinaloa component was implemented successfully. Due to lags in building the Rio Fuerte component,
the water needed to flush salt was needed to irrigate the Rio Sinaloa command. A hydropower plant, not
included at appraisal and not financed by the Bank, was added. In 1990-91, a 200-year flood in the Fuerte
Valley caused an estimated US$ 10 million of damage to irrigation infrastructure and $30 million to crops,
homes and other facilities. US$2.5 million of the loan was re-allocated to emergency restoration.
Benefits from the Rio Sinaloa component have been largely as expected. Those from the Rio
Fuerte component have been modest and would have been so even without the flood. The PCR calculates
the economic IRR to Rio Sinaloa II at 14%, that to Rio Fuerte at 3%-11 % for both. Returns to Sinaloa
I were estimated at 8% and to the power plant, dependent on Sinaloa I, at 17%. The amalgamated return
for all of these is estimated at 10%. The project helped remedy environmental damage from earlier
irrigation projects. In economic terms, both the project and the two projects together are marginally
satisfactory, although returns would clearly have been much higher had implementation and O&M of
Sinaloa I and of Rio Fuerte been carried out as scheduled.
Since 1989, there has been major institutional reform in Mexico, including turnover of irrigation
systems to users. This has improved O&M and reduced government O&M losses. While not part of the
project (there were no institution-buildingobjectives), the reform appears to assure sustainability.
The PCR provides a balanced assessment of project achievements and shortcomings. Part II is
the Borrower's summary of its own thorough ex-post evaluation. All parts of the PCR substantially agree.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document hae a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
dutihs. It contenta may not otherwiso be diaclosed without World Bank authorization. 






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .......................................................................                                                                            i
EVALUATION SUMMARY    .............................................................                                                                i- viii
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK PERSPECTIVE  ..........................................                                                                1
1. Project Identity   .........................................................                                                       1
2. Background .             ...........................................................                                               1
3. Project Objectives and Description   .............................................                                                 2
4. Project Design and Organization    ..............................................                                                  3
5. Implenentation Experience    ...... ...........................................                                                    5
6. Project Results  ..........................................................                                                        9
7. Project Susainability  ......................................................                                                     15
8. Bank Performance   .......................................................                                                        15
9. Borrower Performance  .....................................................                                                       16
10. Project Relationship   ......................................................                                                    16
1 1. Consulting Services   ......................................................                                                    16
12. Project Documertation and Data   ..............................................                                                  17
13. Lessons Learned   ........................................................                                                       17
PART L1: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BORROWER'S STANDPO T   ................................                                                               21
1. Introduction   ...........................................................                                                       21
2. Bank Perfon,nce ........................................................                                                          22
3. Government Performance  ...................................................                                                       22
4. Project Result  ..........................................................                                                        23
S. Recommendations for Project Consolidation  ........................................                                               24
PART III: SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA                        ...............................................                                             26
Table 1.  Related Bank Loas .27
Table 2.  Project Timetable.                                                                                                         2
A. Planned, Revired and Actual Datea of Project Timetable .28
B. Project Schedule ...............................................                                             29
Table 3.  Loan Disbursements: .30
A. Annual and Cumulative Disbursements .30
B. Cumulative Finance Expenditures by Investment Category .30
Table 4.   Project Implementation: .31
A. General Objectives .31
B. LAnd Reclamntion Progrm .32
Table 5.   Project Cost and Financing .33
A. Project Cost .33
B. Project Financing .34
Table 6.  Project Results .35
A. Direct Benefits .35
B. Cash Flow in Economic Prices .36
Table 7.  Status of Covenants .37
Table 8.  Ue of Bank Resoures: .39
A. Staff Inpu .39
B. Miesions .40
Table 9. Studies .41



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Coat.)
Page No.
Annex I   Financial and Economic Analyais ..........................................                                   42
Table 1. Cultivated Ame and Production
Scenario with Project  .................................................                                  43
Table 2. Cultivated Are and Production
Scenario without Project ................................................                                  44
Table 3.1. Cultivated Area and Production
Scenario with Project
Rio Fuerte Sub-Project .................................................                                  45
Table 3.2. Cultivated Aea and Production
Scenario without Project
Rio Fuerte Sub-Project .................................................                                   46
Table 4.1. Cultivated Area and Production
Scenario with Project
Rio Sinaloa Sub-Project ................................................                                   47
Table 4.2. Cultivated Area and Production
Scenario without Project
Rio Sinaloa Sub-Project ................................................                                   48
Table 5. Project Resulta - Incremental Benefits
Inveatments and Project Coats
With Project vs. Without Project
Rio Fuerte Project .49
Table 6. Project Resulta - Incremental Benefits
Inveaments and Project Cost
Wth Project va. Without Project
Rio Sinaloa Sub-Project.                                                                                   50
Table 7. Project Completion Report
Cash Flow in Economnic Prices (MAexSMillion) .51
Table 8. Project Cornpletion Report
Cash Flow in Economic Pricea (MexSMillion) .52
Annex 2 Technical Data .53
Table 1: Main Meteorological Characteriatiques .54
Table 2: Water Balace Fuene Diatrict .55
Table 3: Rio Sinaloa Reservoir Balance .56
Table 4: Overall Irrigation Efficiency .57
Graph 1. Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa - Crop Aea .58
Graph 2. Rio Fuerte - Crop Area .59
Graph 3. Rio Sinaloa - Crop Ama.59



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rfo Fuerte/Rfo Sinaloa
Irrigation Project in Mexico, for which Loan 1706-ME in the amount of US$92 million was
approved on May 24, 1979. The loan was closed on June 30, 1991, five years behind schedule.
Only US$81.8 million of the loan was disbursed and the last disbursement was on June 1991 to
the Special Account; US$10.2 million was canceled by the Borrower.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program on behalf
of the Bank's Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department II, of the Latin America and
the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and II), and the Borrower
(Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a Bank mission in November, 1991, and
is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; progress reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
Borrower's Reports; and internal Bank memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives (paras. 3.01-3.03)
1.       The Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project (Loan 1706-ME) consisted of two
complementary but distinct subprojects: (a) Rio Sinaloa II --whose main objective was to
complete the unfinished 105,000 hectare (ha) irrigation scheme of the Sinaloa I Project (Loan
970-ME), comprising a total area of 76,000 ha of land situated in the lower Sinaloa valley;
and (b) Rio Fuerte--whose objectives included the reclamation of 60,000 ha of saline soils
and the rehabilitation of deteriorated infrastructure in another 60,000 ha irrigation scheme in
the existing Fuerte scheme (units I, IV and V), situated in the lower Fuerte valley. The
connection between the two subprojects was through the possibility of temporary diversion of
excess water accumulated in the Bacurato reservoir, whose construction was being finished in
parallel under the Sinaloa I project. The water was to be used for leaching salinized soils in
part of the Rio Fuerte district during the construction of the irrigation infrastructure of Rio
Sinaloa II.
2.        The project was planned to be implemented over a period of 6 years. It included
rehabilitating and constructing irrigation and drainage canals; establishing access roads,
telecommunication and other works; reclaiming soil and clearing land; providing extension
and research; and carrying out drainage and other studies. The project was expected to
increase the cropped area in the project area from 125,000 to 228,000 ha, raise the net value
of production by 245%, and benefit 20,000 farm families, 71 % of them small farmers.
Implementation Experience (paras. 5.01-5.14)
3.        Start-up of the project was delayed and implementation was longer than planned
because of continuing counterpart funding constraints. These resulted mainly from the
adverse macroeconomic environment brought on chiefly by the 1982 oil price slump that
induced an economic crisis in Mexico. The project became effective in October 5, 1979 and
was closed in June 30, 1991, after five extensions. Total cost was US$225 million (90% of
SAR estimates), loan disbursement was US$81.8 million (88% of estimates), and US$10.2
million were canceled. The Government's participation was US$143 million (63.6% of total
costs, virtually identical to SAR estimates). Project costs were revised twice and loan
allocations once, to allow for increased loan participation in the financing of agricultural
extension.
4.        The two subprojects differed markedly from one other in performance from the
beginning. Although subject to the same institutional and funding constraints, the Rio



- iv -
Sinaloa II subproject showed an implementation dynamism that contrasted sharply with the
very slow execution rate of the Rio Fuerte subproject. The main implementation
shortcomings of the Rio Fuerte subproject were: (a) its failure to achieve the planned soil
reclamation target, and (b) poor maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure. The low soil
reclamation rate (51 % of the SAR target) was partly caused by the slow progress of the civil
works program of the subproject, which prevented the Rio Fuerte scheme from using the
temporary water surplus accumulated in the Bacurato reservoir for the planned soil leaching
operation. In fact, the development program on Sinaloa II, contrary to the original plan,
advanced faster and eventually absorbed the available water for its irrigation program.
This, compounded by overall water shortages resulting from droughts and legal dispositions
compelling Irrigation Districts to allocate water to production purposes, prevented the Rio
Fuerte subproject from having access to the volume of water necessary to carry out the
scheduled soil leaching program. Design deficiencies also contributed to the poor
performance of the soil reclamation program, particularly the inclusion in the program of
economically irrecuperable soils that were subsequently abandoned.
5.        Deficient maintenance, although common to both subprojects, had aggravating
consequences in the Rio Fuerte district where existing infrastructure was already deteriorating
because of deferred maintenance before the project began. Its adverse impact on the Rio
Sinaloa HI scheme was reduced by the fact that most infrastructure was newly constructed by
the project. Poor maintenance arose essentially from funding constraints caused by the low
water charges collected by the irrigation districts, which the project failed to raise to realistic
levels. An inadequate drainage network and long droughts combined with the unsuccessful
soil reclamation program meant that agricultural production in the Rio Fuerte district
stagnated instead of expanding as expected. This led to a lower than expected agricultural
growth of the project, in spite of the positive production performance of the Rio Sinaloa II
subproject.
6.        Although the construction pace was slow and most infrastructure targets were not
entirely achieved in both subprojects, the quality of the civil works was generally considered
satisfactory by Bank supervision missions. Design deficiencies arising from inadequate basic
data necessitated some redesigning of the original distribution and infrastructure networks,
which affected about 11 % of the Rio Sinaloa II scheme. At the closing date, although the
irrigation and drainage network had not been completed, Rio Sinaloa's 76,000 ha
development target had been almost achieved, while the Rio Fuerte subproject attained only
about 66% of its 120,000 ha rehabilitation and reclamation target. Access roads were well
designed and constructed, and the telecommunication system was modified, with Bank
agreement, from wire telephone to a modem radio communications system.
7.        Catastrophic floods in late 1990-early 1991, in the Fuerte subproject area,
destroyed bridges, severely damaged the irrigation infrastructure and caused overall losses,
estimated at about US$40 million. Crop losses alone, from a flooded area of about 19,500
ha, amounted to about US$14.3 million. The total flood plain reached about 49,000 ha and
about 68,000 ha were immobilized to further production due to serious damage of main
canals and laterals. With Bank approval, about US$2.5 milion of the loan were used to
rehabilitate the affected canals, under an emergency schedule. Additional restoration works,
estimated at US$7 million, were to be financed under the IDSP loan then in its final



v -
negotiation stage with the Bank. The 1990-91 floods contributed to reduce, although not in a
determining way, the performance indicators of the Rio Fuerte subproject.
8.        Project organization and management followed SAR arrangements in the initial
phase. General responsibility was given to the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic
Resources (SARH), local coordination to the Rio Fuerte Commission (CRF). The Rio Fuerte
and the Rio Sinaloa II Irrigation Districts were responsible for operation and maintenance and
extension, and the Hydraulics Department (DH) of SARH for the civil works execution.
Agricultural research was under the National Institute for Agricultural Research/Centro de
Investigaciones Agropecuarias del Pacifico Norte (INIA/CIAPAN). In 1985, a major
institutional reorganization abolished the CRF, and project implementation responsibility was
given to SARH's Sinaloa State Delegation (DES). The local structure was also reorganized.
The most important change in terms of impact on project performance was the transfer of
operation and maintenance and extension responsibilities from the Irrigation Districts to the
Rural Development Districts, whose jurisdiction included the surrounding rainfed areas. A
second institutional reorganization in 1989 created the National Water commission (CNA),
within SARH, at the central level, and CNA took over general coordination of the project in
1989. At the state level its structure incorporated the newly created Irrigation District State
Offices. At local level, operation and maintenance tasks were retransferred to the Irrigation
Districts from the Rural Development Districts which, however, remained under the DES
and retained their extension responsibilities for the irrigated and rainfed areas.
9.        Agricultural research was carried out, as planned, by INIA's two experimental
stations in the project area. The research program was effective and concerned rightly with
the solution of technological and economic problems related to the area's major crops,
contributing to increased yields and farmers' revenues. Agricultural extension was less
effective. Although results were satisfactory up to 1985, technical assistance to farmers was
set back by the transfer of responsibility from the Irrigation District to the Rural
Development District. With extended jurisdictions and curtailed budgets, extension services
deteriorated, project accounting and monitoring records were lost, and the new accounting
system was not in line with provisions of the Loan covenants. Contrary to stipulations,
research and extension failed to keep separate accounts for project-financed activities, while
unallocated loan funds were inadvertently used to finance extension costs, indicating poor
central coordination. Coordination improved after 1989, when responsibility for project
coordination was given to the newly created CNA.
Project Results (paras. 6.01-6.15)
10.       Rio Sinaloa H came very close to attaining its overall objectives, but the Rio
Fuerte subproject performed considerably less well, and overall results were below
expectations. All of the land clearing and land levelling targets of the Rio Sinaloa subproject
were achieved, as well as about 90% of its infrastructure targets. The Rio Fuerte subproject
reached only 51% of its soil reclamation target and 76% of the canal rehabilitation target.
The completion rates for new infrastructure were 82% for land levelling, 52% for unlined
lateral canals, 104% for lined lateral canals, and 92% for drains. Most of the infrastructure
constructed or rehabilitated under both subprojects has deteriorated for lack of adequate
maintenance. Maintenance issues are now being addressed by the Irrigation and Drainage
Sector Project (IDSP-Loan 3419-ME), which became effective in June 1992.



- vi -
11.       Water allocation and delivery were well organized and operated, but overall
irrigation efficiency was below 40% (76% of SAR provisions for Rio Sinaloa II and 80% for
Rio Fuerte) because of poor maintenance compounded by a low canal density and inadequate
land levelling. The expansion of the total area cropped over the 1979/80 level showed a
very irregular pattern, mainly because of water shortages resulting from lower than normal
rainfalls in many years. Expansion was 128,000 ha (130% of SAR estimates) over the total
project period.
12.       Cropping patterns did not follow the SAR forecasts.  Contrary to predictions,
production of some crops such as cotton, rice, safflower, and sugar cane, was either almost
phased out or cut back considerably. This was due primarily to increasingly unfavorable
market conditions in a competitive environment. Production increases were above SAR
estimates for vegetables, maize and sorghum, soy beans, potatoes, and wheat. Forage and
fruit crops were not developed as anticipated. Productivity gains were obtained with maize
(54% increase), beans (40%), soybeans (15%), potatoes (13%), vegetables (6%), and wheat
(5%), while cotton and rice yields decreased about 25% and 13%, respectively.
13.       The project benefitted 7,205 rural families in Rio Sinaloa (101% of SAR
estimates) and 6,939 families in Rio Fuerte (54%). Overall, the project benefits were 72%
of the SAR estimates. The project promoted efficiency by encouraging the development of
crops for which there was strong market demand. This favored the growth of the most
dynamic segment of entrepreneurial producers and the development of effective private
technical assistance services. The project failed, however, to create mechanisms for
improving the competitiveness of the less competitive ejidol' farmers. Such farmers ended
up renting out part of their land to large farmers.
14.       A non-agricultural side-benefit of the project was the generation of electricity by
a Government-financed power plant added to the Rio Sinaloa II project. This had not been
included in the original plan, probably because the power study had not been completed at
the time of appraisal. The plant was constructed in order to maximize the use of the water
stored by the Bacurato dam. The dam had to be redesigned accordingly.
15.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the two combined subprojects (Rio Fuerte
and Rio Sinaloa II) over a period of 25 years was estimated was at 10.6%--significantly
below the SAR estimate of 17.9%. The shortfall was due to the poor performance of the Rio
Fuerte subproject, whose ERR was 3.1%; the ERR for Rio Sinaloa II, estimated at 14.4%
(without the power plant), was closer to the SAR expectations. (The ERR for the power
plant was 16.9%). The overall ERR for Rio Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa II together with Sinaloa
I (whose ERR was only 7.9%) and the power plant was estimated at 10.1%.
Sustainability (para. 7.01)
16.       Project sustainability was affected by the lack of funds for operation and
maintenance. This derived essentially from the Govemment's inability to keep water charges
1'    E:jido: settlement of small farmers on public lands expropriated under the Agrarian Reform, where the
land user (ejidatario) has rights to use the land, but not property rights.



- vii -
ahead of the inflation rate to cover incurred costs, especially during 1982-89 when the
macroeconomic environment deteriorated. By 1988, with cost recovery for operation and
maintenance below 30%, maintenance was poor, reducing productivity and increasing
production costs. This affected sustainability in the long run. Poor maintenance requires
periodic infrastructure rehabilitation, which tends to be almost as expensive as the original
construction investment. The ongoing Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project is addressing
this problem. By late-1992 both projects achieved 100% self-sufficiency in operation and
maintenance assuring sustainability conditions for both subprojects.
Lessons Learned (paras. 13.01-13.10)
17.       The following lessons can be drawn from the Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa II
experience for similar projects in the future:
(a)    Like many projects in Latin America implemented in the 1980s, the
project was seriously affected by an unfavorable macroeconomic
environment, institutional instability, and severe funding constraints.
This confirms the importance of a sound macroeconomic and institutional
context as an important condition for successful project implementation.
(b)    The lack of an integrated project coordinating unit for the two projects,
together with changes in the institutional structure responsible for project
execution, contributed to a relaxing of the implementation discipline
established by the Loan Agreement. As a result, participating agencies,
such as those for extension and research, and the Irrigation Districts, lost
sight of their commitment to project objectives. Project and non-project
activities were muddled together, maintenance activities were neglected,
reflecting overall funding problems, and project performance was
consequently jeopardized. It appears that the establishment of a strong
project coordinating unit is vital to ensuring smooth implementation
when many agencies are involved, particularly in unstable institutional
conditions.
(c)    Poor maintenance hurts current productivity and production and
undercuts sustainability in the long run. The poor maintenance is
directly related to the Irrigation Districts' difficulty in collecting realistic
water rates to cover operation and maintenance costs. The problem can
be solved only by transferring operation and maintenance responsibility
to water users.
(d)    Reclamation of saline soils has to be analyzed case by case before
appraisal, to avoid including economically irrecuperable soils. Such soils
had been included originally in development schemes on the basis of
non-technical criteria (usually, under political pressure to expand
irrigated areas).
(e)    The Government's market-oriented policy during the final project years
(1989-91) favored the development of competitive commercial crop



viii -
production along with the positive expansion of private technical
assistance. This had positive effects on the performance of large-scale
irrigation in Mexico. However, this policy benefitted principally large
farmers. Special attention must be given to assist ejidos to successfully
compete in the future;
(f)    Rio Sinaloa II is a typical example of multipurpose water resource
projects that include irrigation as a major objective but derive significant
benefits from power generation, flood control, and municipal water
supply. These side-benefits should be taken into account in future
projects.
(g)    The significant growth of the secondary sector in the project area during
implementation, largely related to agricultural production, indicates that
despite the project's shortfalls, it was able to bring about substantial
economic development in the region. In particular, it confirms the great
development potential of the area and shows that further investment
aimed at improving the efficiency of water use (the limiting factor for
expansion) would be worth considering.
(h)    The restriction of flexibility on water delivery schedules that constrains
opportune (frequent) and light irrigations and thus limit crop potential
yields and diversification is an issue in Rio Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa, as
well as in most of Mexican gravity Irrigation Districts. Future
rehabilitation and modernization programs should address this restriction
in order to achieve better economic results. The new projects should
also include modernization concepts to tackle this problem.
(i)    Lessons Learned from the 1990-91 Flood Episode Include:
(i)    Dam safety and hydraulic infrastructure safety concerns should
be included in major gravity irrigation schemes, to ensure the
maintenance of the concerned structures and thus avoid or
minimize such catastrophic downstream damages as occurred
during the Fuerte floods.
(ii)    An effective storm monitoring system, which in the event
ensured the broadcast of early warning alarms and allowed the
timely evacuation of the concerned population from the risk
area, is an important instrument of public good concerns to be
supported, particularly under the risky meteorological and
geological conditions of Mexico constantly hit by thunderstorms,
hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes.
(iii)   The construction of bridges in major rivers with excessive earth
embankments that obstruct the free flow of water must be
avoided.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IREGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name:     Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project
Loan No.:         1706-ME
RVP Unit:         Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:          Mexico
Sector:           Agriculture
Subsector:        Irrigation
2. Background
2.01  Mexico's agricultural sector contributed about 7.3% to GDP in 1992. Agriculture
currently employs about 25% of the labor force, and provides some 26% of non-oil exports.
Only about 18% of the total land is cultivable. An estimated 21 million hectares (ha) are
cropped, about 6 million ha under irrigation. During 1950-65, agricultural GDP growth
averaged 4.3% a year, well ahead of population growth, but it started to decline in the late
1960s. This decline was in response to the higher cost of bringing marginal land into
production, a slow-down in the expansion of irrigated areas, excessive water use and
inadequate drainage on many irrigated lands. These factors resulted in salinization and
reduction of cropped areas and yields. Agricultural GDP growth fell to an average of 2.4%
during 1965-80, below the rate of population growth. From being food self-sufficient and an
agricultural exporter before 1970, Mexico became a major importer of basic foodstuffs by
the end of the decade.
2.02 To restore agriculture's performance and ensure food security, the Govemment
introduced some important policy measures and took decisive steps to revive the irrigation
subsector. A federal water law was enacted in 1972 and a nationwide institutional structure
established under the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH) to control,
manage, and coordinate the use of the country's water resources. A number of irrigation
projects, some of which were supported by the World Bank, were launched during the 1970s
to rehabilitate and expand the subsector. During the final years of project implementation



(late 1980s and early 1990s) the agricultural policies shifted toward the elimination of
subsidies, in line with agreements made under Bank-financed Agricultural Adjustment Loans
(AGSAL) I and II. This has resulted over the past three years, in a more competitive
agricultural sector.
2.03 One of these irrigation projects was the US$146 million Rio Sinaloa Project (Loan
970-ME) started in 1974. The project included the construction of storage (Bacurato) and
diversion (Sinaloa de Levya) dams and the development of 105,000 ha of irrigable land.
Cost overruns (caused by underestimates deriving from design deficiencies), compounded by
rising inflation and the bankruptcy of the dam contractor led to a reduction in the scope of
the irrigation infrastructure of the project (redefined in 1978 as Rio Sinaloa I project) to
29,000 ha so that the dam's construction could be completed by 1981. The remaining
76,000 ha of irrigable lands was to be developed under a second phase (Rio Sinaloa II)
project. Because of a time lag between the completion of Rio Sinaloa I and the establishment
of the extended irrigation infrastructure under the second-phase project, the Bacurato
reservoir was expected to have excess water. The Rio Sinaloa II project was merged with
the adjacent Rio Fuerte Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, then in preparation, and the excess
water stored in the reservoir was to be used for the leaching of salinized soils in the Rio
Fuerte district, while the Rio Sinaloa II infrastructure was being constructed. The Rio
Fuerte district comprised a total irrigable area of 210,000 ha, of which about 120,000 ha,
covering three of the scheme's five geographical sections (units I, IV and V) had either
seriously deteriorated infrastructure or salinized soils (60,000 ha).
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.01 The Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa II Irrigation Project (Loan 1706-ME) was a follow-up to
the Rio Sinaloa I Project. But it also contained the Rio Fuerte Rehabilitation. The project
was approved by the Board in May 1979 for a total of US$249.7 million, of which the Bank
would finance US$92 million and the Government US$157.7 million. The project was to
cover a total area of 196,000 ha and comprised two subprojects: (a) Rio Sinaloa II, designed
to complete the originally planned 105,000 ha of the Rio Sinaloa scheme, involving the
construction of irrigation and drainage systems for 76,000 ha (43,000 ha on the left bank and
33,000 ha on the right bank) in the Rio Sinaloa District, and (b) Rio Fuerte, designed to
reclaim 60,000 ha of saline soils and rehabilitate deteriorated infrastructure on another
60,000 ha in the Rio Fuerte district. Interconnecting canals would be constructed to divert
part of the water from the Rio Sinaloa scheme for the leaching of salinized soils in the Rio
Fuerte district. Project activities included:
(a)   rehabilitation of about 1.7 km of lined main canal, 130 km of unlined main
irrigation canals, about 600 km of unlined irrigation laterals, and 154 km of
open drains in the Rio Fuerte district;
(b)   construction of about 375 km of lined irrigation laterals and 171 km of open
drains in the Rio Fuerte district;



(c)   construction of about 16 km of lined main canal, 313 km of lined and 280 km
of unlined irrigation laterals, 510 km of open drains, and 170 km of feeder
roads in the Rio Sinaloa district;
(d)   reclamation of about 60,000 ha of saline and saline-sodic soils in the Rio
Fuerte district;
(e)   land clearing of 43,000 ha and levelling of 60,000 ha in the Rio Fuerte district
and 40,000 ha in the Rio Sinaloa district;
(f)   telecommunication and other works, including 295 kilometers (km) of
telephone lines and 50 ditch-rider houses;
(g)   expansion of the district agricultural extension and research programs; and
(h)   execution of drainage and other studies within the Rio Sinaloa and Rio Fuerte
river basins.
3.02 The project was to be implemented over a period of 6 years and was expected to
increase the total cropped area from 125,000 ha to 228,000 ha, raise the net value of
production by 245%, and benefit about 20,000 farm families of which 71 % would be small
farmers with 8 ha or less. The economic rate of return had been calculated at 17.9%.
3.03 The project was to be executed by SARH through its existing structure in Sinaloa
state. In each district (Rio Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa), civil works were to be implemented by
the existing Hydraulic Engineering Office, while maintenance, water distribution, and
extension to farmers were to be under the responsibility of the Irrigation District.
Agricultural research was to be carried out by two local experimental stations of the
Agricultural Research Center for the Northwest of the Pacific (CIAPAN) of the National
Institute for Agricultural Research (INIA). Monitoring and evaluation were to be carried out
through the existing structure.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.01 The project's overall concept was consistent with the Government's sectoral
development policy which aimed at raising agricultural production, recovering national food
self-sufficiency, and improving farmers' revenues. It was equally in accord with the strategy
of developing and improving the irrigation subsector. Furthermore, it met the local needs
and realized the potential of the Rio Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa districts. In the case of Rio
Fuerte, it supported the rehabilitation of deteriorated irrigation infrastructure and the
reclamation of saline soils, and in the Sinaloa district, it completed the expansion of the
irrigated area started under the Rio Sinaloa I project.
4.02 The project's technical strategy was conceptually correct and innovative. The
leaching of saline soils in the Rio Fuerte district with excess water diverted from the
Bacurato dam during construction of the Rio Sinaloa infrastructure was to result in



- 4-
considerable economies: the soil washing operations, otherwise feasible only at the expense
of a significant reduction of the irrigated area, would be accomplished with almost costless
water. The condition for its success was the completion of the Rio Fuerte works before
those in Sinaloa. However, for want of adequate coordination and in spite of a generally
slow implementation pace, the Rio Sinaloa subproject advanced considerably faster than the
Rio Fuerte subproject, and the proposed strategy could not be implemented as anticipated
(see para. 5.04). The soil leaching program was further frustrated by design inaccuracies:
irrigation efficiency was over-estimated by the SAR, while the volume of supplementary
water derived from pumped wells turned out to be significantly less than expected. This was
compounded by overall water deficiencies caused by droughts and contributed to reducing the
overall irrigation target and preventing the completion of the desalinization program after
completion of the Rio Sinaloa scheme.
4.03 From the civil-engineering point of view, the irrigation and drainage infrastructure--
including main conveyance systems, major water control structures and distribution networks-
-suffered from some design shortfalls. They included particularly lower number of control
structures than required (principally cross-regulators to permit full command of reduced
flows); overestimated areas supplied by outlet (over 50 ha on average); improper alignment
of some canals; incorrectly positioned outlets; insufficient density of minor distributional
canals; and insufficient secondary and tertiary drains. These design shortfalls derived mainly
from the lack of adequate data concerning agro-engineering aspects, such as crop-water
requirements; water conveyance and distribution losses; losses below farmers' outlets;
requirements of minor canals and drains; and on-farm development, particularly land
levelling and water management techniques, which led to frequent water shortages and the
under-utilization of the existing irrigable area. In fact, the utilization rate (irrigated area as a
percentage of the irrigable area) averaged only 85% in Rio Fuerte and 75 % in Rio Sinaloa.
4.04 Furthermore, because of soil restrictions that emerged during implementation, the
design of the Rio Sinaloa scheme had to be modified. The development program of the right
bank had to be reduced by about 8,000 ha, and the expansion of the left-bank area was,
therefore, increased by an equivalent area to keep the total expansion target at the original
76,000 ha level. The irrigation and drainage infrastructure of the Rio Sinaloa scheme had to
be redesigned accordingly. Irrigation and drainage canals were generally well designed and
constructed, but the density of the drainage network was underestimated because of deficient
basic hydrology data. This was particularly the case in the Rio Fuerte District where
insufficient drainage together with poor operation and maintenance (see para. 5.07) and the
inclusion of low lands below the 5 meters (m) above sea level elevation (para. 5.06),
increased the soil salinity problem. A significant area of saline soils in the Rio Fuerte
District was included on non-technical criteria, mainly political pressure. These soils should
not have been included in the reclamation program because they turned out to be
economically unviable. Their low altitudes meant their drainage system required mechanical
pumping. As a result, the total area of soils with salinity problems at project completion was
about the same as estimated at appraisal.
4.05 Access roads were well designed and constructed. For reasons of efficacy and
economy the telecommunication system was modified from the planned wire telephone to a
modem radio communications system. Since this altemative had not been examined by the
appraisal mission, the modification required the agreement of the Bank.



4.06 Actual cropping pattern diverged from SAR projections, owing mainly to overall
economic and policy changes, as well as to market development that could not have been
predicted at appraisal, especially in the case of sugarcane and cotton. Production shortfalls
resulted from water constraints caused by reduced rainfalls and, principally, by technical and
management problems as discussed in paras. 4.03 and 4.08. (For more details see paras.
6.07 to 6.11).
4.07 Unit costs realistically reflected the actual prices prevailing at appraisal, and the
project phasing assumed a normal economic and institutional environment. However, an
economic crisis brought about severe financing constraints and currency distortions, and the
proposed phasing turned out to be overoptimistic and the forecasted price contingencies,
overestimated. In fact, the project was extended by four years, but project costs, in spite of
the expanded implementation time, only slightly overran the SAR estimates.
4.08 The project organization and management scheme was an extension of the Rio Sinaloa
I experience. The roles and responsibilities of the executing agencies were adequately
defined and understood. Two major institutional reorganizations within SARH (in 1985 and
1989; see paras. 5.01, 5.02 and 5.12) transferred the project extension and operation and
maintenance responsibilities from the Irrigation Districts (SAR scheme) to the Rural
Development Districts, whose jurisdictions overlapped but did not coincide since the Rural
Development Districts included large rainfed areas. These changes were based on national
level concerns and were intended to adjust SARH's overall internal structure, not to improve
the project's organization and management for which the SAR scheme appeared to be clearly
more efficient. In fact, these structural changes had a negative impact on the performance of
the extension service (see paras. 5.11 and 5.12). The intervention of an active project
coordinating unit--while of minor importance in the original scheme--could have helped to
minimize the negative effects of institutional instability.
4.09 Policy and institutional changes were designed mainly to improve the operation and
maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems through realistic water pricing and cost
recovery targets. For political reasons, however, these changes were not implemented, with
serious consequences for the maintenance of the infrastructure and for agricultural production
(see para. 5.09). This shortcoming is expected to be corrected under the current National
Development Plan (1989-1994), by transferring operation and maintenance responsibilities to
water users. Initially, this transfer would be limited to laterals and drains. It would be
extended progressively to the irrigation scheme as a whole. The Bank, with parallel
financing from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), is supporting this initiative
under the Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project (IDSP), which also targets cost recovery
from operation and maintenance in the irrigation districts.
5. Implementation Experience
5.01 Institutional Framework. Project organization and management followed SAR
arrangements in the initial phase. General responsibility was given to SARH and local
coordination to the Rio Fuerte Commission (CRF), under which Irrigation District 63 (Rio
Puerte) and Irrigation District 75 (Rio Sinaloa) were responsible for water management,



- 6 -
maintenance, and extension services and the Hydraulics Department was responsible for the
execution of civil works. Agricultural research was the responsibility of INIA/CIAPAN. In
1985, a reorganization abolished CRF, and project implementation responsibility was given
to SARH's Sinaloa State Delegation in Culiacan, the state capital. The Hydraulic
Department's tasks were inherited by the local Delegation for Infrastructure and Hydraulics.
There was one Executive Office in each district to coincide with the Hydraulic Engineering
Offices, and separate Rural Development Districts for Rio Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa, whose
expanded jurisdiction encompassed the former Irrigation Districts and surrounding rainfed
areas. These Rural Development Districts were entrusted with the responsibilities formerly
carried out by the Irrigation Districts, but their extension activities extended to the rainfed
subsector.
5.02 A second institutional reorganization in 1989 created the National Water Commission
(CNA) within SARH at the central level. The CNA took over general coordination of the
project in 1989. Its structure comprised the newly created Irrigation District State Office at
the state level, and the Works Offices for construction activities and the reinstalled Irrigation
Districts with operation and maintenance tasks (retransferred from the Rural Development
Districts at the local level). The Rural Development Districts, however, remained under the
Sinaloa State Delegation, and retained their agricultural extension responsibilities for the
irrigation and rainfed subsectors.
5.03 Project Implementation. The start-up of the project was delayed, and
implementation was slow and prolonged because of severe counterpart funding constraints.
The project started in late 1980, about one year after effectiveness, and was closed June 30,
1991, after five extensions, four one-year extensions and one half-year extension. Total
disbursements were about US$225 million (about 90% of SAR estimates), loan disbursement
was about US$81 million (88% of SAR estimates), and about US$10,2 million was canceled.
The Government's participation was US$143 million (at 63.6%, slightly above the SAR
estimate of 63%). Project costs were revised twice (February 1984 and September 1984),
and loan allocations once (September 1984), to allow for increased loan participation in the
financing of agricultural extension activities.
5.04 The initial delays were due mainly to management problems (for example, a reliance
on numerous small contracts rather than large contractual packages) and to delayed
compliance with procurement procedures. By Project Year 3 only 30% of the expected
disbursements had been realized. Slow implementation thereafter was directly associated
with Mexico's overall economic difficulties brought about mainly by the 1982 oil price
slump. Budget cutbacks and untimely release of funds impeded the smooth achievement of
annual targets. The targets had to be constantly revised. These problems seemed to have
been more acute in the Rio Fuerte subproject. Contrary to expectations and despite
successive Bank warnings, the civil works in the Rio Fuerte district were from the beginning
considerably behind those in Sinaloa. Consequently, the soil reclamation program suffered,
as explained in paragraph 5.05. The better performance of the Sinaloa team derived
probably from its previous experience with Bank projects, acquired with the implementation
of Rio Sinaloa I--a project whose final phase, completed in 1983, coincided with the initial
stage of Rio Sinaloa II.



5.05 Civil Works. Although funding constraints slowed construction, the quality of the
civil works was generally considered satisfactory by Bank supervision missions. Following
detailed surveys, some land development targets were adjusted during implementation. For
example, the Rio Sinaloa right bank development target was reduced by 8,000 ha, to 25,000
ha, because of soil restrictions, and the left bank target was raised by 8,000 ha to 51,000 ha,
keeping the Rio Sinaloa original total target of 76,000 ha (see paragraph 4.04). This led to
changes in infrastructure targets too. The result was a substantially increased canal and road
network (see Part HI, Table 4A). The overall objective of developing a total of 196,000 ha
was, however, maintained. While the Rio Sinaloa subproject came close to its targets and
almost achieved its overall objectives, the Rio Fuerte subproject showed considerably poorer
performance, achieving only half of its soil-reclamation objective (see paras. 6.01 and 6.02).
The critical failure was the uneven execution progress between the two subprojects. The
soil-reclamation strategy required that the levelling and drain construction works in Rio
Fuerte be concluded before the Rio Sinaloa infrastructure to enable the temporary surplus
water stored in the Bacurato dam to be used to leach the salinized soils in the Rio Fuerte
district. Though a Bank supervision mission emphasized the need for adequate coordination
of the two subprojects by SARH, the Rio Sinaloa program advanced considerably faster, and
the opportunity to use the water surpluses available until 1985 was lost. Soil leaching
subsequently became extremely difficult because the water--often reduced by droughts--was
used for irrigation, which has legal priority over reclamation. As a result, only 51% of the
SAR estimated soil-reclamation target was reached.
5.06 This deficiency was compounded by inadequate density of the drainage network
density (see para. 4.03), attempts to bring marginal low lands (below 5 m above sea level)
into production, and poor maintenance of infrastructure (see paras. 4.03 and 5.05). The
result was increased waterlogging and salinization in the Rfo Fuerte District. Consequently,
the total area of saline and sodic soils has not declined as foreseen, and the production
benefits are lower than expected. Efficient drainage was not achieved, primarily because of
poor monitoring of the water table in areas affected by salinity. This monitoring activity had
been properly carried out up to 1985, but increased budgetary constraints meant it was
abandoned thereafter. Another civil works issue contributing to the delay of production
growth was the exclusion of an 8,000 ha plain on the right side of the Sinaloa river which
turned out to be lithosolic. This was excluded for lack of adequate stone-breaking and
removing equipment although the project had allocated funds for such machines. An
equivalent area was later developed on the left margin.
5.07 Operation and Maintenance. The operation and maintenance of irrigation and
drainage infrastructure was deficient for both subprojects. This constituted a major problem
because it reduced the efficiency of water distribution, contributed to soil waterlogging, and
reduced the expected benefits. The main causes of those shortcomings was insufficient
operation and maintenance funding, arising from unrealistic water use rates and curtailed
budgetary allocations which forced the Irrigation Districts to defer maintenance. Overall
poor maintenance raised the question of whether the project could be sustained. In fact, at
closing date a significant part of the irrigation infrastructure constructed or rehabilitated by
the project required rehabilitation.
5.08 Drainage problems were aggravated after groundwater pumping was abandoned.
During the past two decades, part of the Rio Sinaloa Project had been irrigated by



- 8 -
groundwater from wells. After the construction and implementation of the Bacurato dam,
pumping was discontinued, contributing to increased drainage problems in the area. Not
until 1990-1991 were wells rehabilitated for drainage, and groundwater used with surface
water, in line with the good practices demonstrated in the Yaqui District in Sonora. Twenty-
two wells were rehabilitated during 1991.
5.09 Water Charges. Progressive adjustments in water charges (collected directly by the
Irrigation Districts from the beneficiaries), aimed at total operation and maintenance cost
recovery, was one of the covenants of the Loan Agreement (see Part III, Table 7).
However, although there were nominal and frequent increases, high inflation kept these
charges below the 50% threshold--and often as low as 20% of the direct costs of maintenance
in real terms. Frequent payment defaults further reduced the funds available for
maintenance. The low charges encouraged the inefficient use of water, further increasing
water losses and reducing the effective irrigated area. Political reasons lay behind the
Government's failure to raise the user charges. Increases had to be negotiated annually with
the water users, and SARH usually acquiesced in their reluctance to pay higher fees. The
real costs of operation and maintenance are, however, modest (about US$50 a hectare a year
at present), if compared, for instance, with land rental costs, which are four to five times
higher but accepted without protest by farmers. The farmers' difficulty in accepting higher
water rates stemmed from their reluctance to consider the effects of inflation and,
particularly, from a long tradition of mistrust of Government-run services. This difficulty is
expected to be addressed by the World Bank-assisted IDSP project. This new project will
rehabilitate the deteriorated infrastructure in both districts and will transfer irrigation
management and maintenance to water users. Water charges will be collected directly by
users associations and are expected to fully cover direct operation and maintenance costs.
5.10  Research. Agricultural research was carried out, as planned, by CIAPAN's two
experimental stations in Valle del Fuerte and Guasave. The research program was effective
and concerned rightly with the solution of technological and economic problems related to
the area's major crops, contributing to increasing farmers' revenues. The main
achievements, aimed at creating economic alternatives for the ejido sector, included the
introduction of improved, disease-resistant varieties with significantly higher potential yields
for all major crops; improved cropping systems, particularly the use of minimum-tillage
techniques and optimal watering patterns that result in significant cost reductions at
equivalent yields; the introduction of some 40 crop species (for which the farmers
associations are now doing marketing research); and experiments with cattle feedlots.
5.11  Extension. Technology transfer was less effective. Although about 90 additional
extension agents were hired and trained at the beginning of the project and technical
assistance to farmers was found satisfactory by supervision missions up to 1985, the wide
variability in average yields of the main products indicate that the extension service had little
impact on production and productivity in the long run. Inadequate funding, low salaries, and
weak research-extension links, together with the overlapping objectives of irrigated and
rainfed farming and poor coordination, were the main causes of the extension program's
modest performance.
5.12 From 1979 to 1985, the project extension service was under the Irrigation Districts.
Its activities were coordinated with engineering and operation and maintenance activities, and



- 9 -
results were satisfactory, despite constant funding difficulties. In 1985, as part of major
institutional restructuring (para. 5.01), extension was taken from the Irrigation Districts and
organized under the Rural Development Districts, with an extended geographical and
technical jurisdiction that combined irrigated and rainfed areas. Expanded responsibility,
smaller budgets, and lack of adequate coordination to ensure a smooth transition from the
previous program led to deterioration of the extension service during the new phase.
Accounting and monitoring records were lost, the new production-monitoring activities were
deficient, and the new accounting system did not correspond to the Loan covenants. In fact,
contrary to Loan Agreement stipulations, research and extension failed to keep separate
accounts for project-financed activities, and an internal audit had to be requested by the Bank
for evaluation purposes to determine the actual project costs for extension activities. In
addition, unallocated loan funds were inadvertently used to finance extension costs, indicating
poor central coordination and control by the Bank.
5.13 In contrast to the weak performance of official extension services, private technical
assistance to farmers, not financed by the project, was effective. Private technical assistance
almost unheard of in 1980 when the project started, grew to 67 agents in 1989, 102 in 1990,
and 122 in 1991 in the Rio Sinaloa district alone, where most export crops are grown. Most
technical assistance agents are independent professionals, although some are linked to
consulting firms or input dealers. Their services are generally contracted by individual
farmers. Technology transfer by private technical assistance agents, who strive to keep up
with local and foreign research, has been generally efficient and innovative.
5.14 Power Generation. The benefits of power generation were not considered in the
SAR because the studies and designs for water power development were not ready. These
studies were completed later, during dam construction and it was decided to add electric
generation to the project. Adaptations were made accordingly, and the corresponding costs
were agreed with the Bank and were to be financed by the Rio Sinaloa I Loan. After
completion of the Bacurato dam, the SARH conceded to the National Electricity Commission
(CFE) the right to implement a power generation facility with two turbine-generators totalling
97 MVA. The additional costs for power plant and switch yard of about US$48.5 million,
were totally financed by the Government. Power generation began in 1987 and is now about
485,000 megawatts a year (1992). It represents a substantial additional source of benefits
(see para. 6.13).
6. Project Results
6.01  Civil Works. The project did not achieve its main targets in the Rfo Fuerte district,
and overall results were below expectations. The total developed and rehabilitated area was
172,000 ha--14% below the SAR estimate of 196,000 ha. This shortfall was due mainly to
the poor performance of the Rio Fuerte subproject; the Rio Sinaloa subproject came close to
its targets and almost attained its overall objectives. The Sinaloa land-clearing and levelling
components (revised targets of 40,000 ha and 50,000 ha, respectively), as well as the
drainage network (443 km) were fully accomplished. The 388 km of constructed roads
surpassed the SAR estimates by 128% (although they were 11 % below the revised targets).
Lateral distribution canals reached more than 90% of revised estimates (lined canals 95%,



- 10-
unlined canals 91%). The main difference between planned and executed civil works in the
Rio Sinaloa subproject was in the construction of lined main canals--only 9 km of the
estimated 16 km were completed--owing mainly to severe budget constraints. The
completion of these canals is foreseen in the IDSP project (Loan 3419-ME).
6.02 The Rio Fuerte subproject achieved less soil reclamation than anticipated. It had been
an important objective (4% of total project cost) but was accomplished on only 51% of the
60,000 ha anticipated by SAR, although other rehabilitation and construction targets taken
individually attained better scores (see Part Im, Table 4). The rehabilitation of canals and
drains reached only 76% of the revised targets (although they represented 99% of the SAR
target estimates): main canals 141.3 km (lined 1.7 km or 100%; unlined 139.6 km or 94%);
laterals 409.6 km (66%); and drains 329.1 km (87%). New lined laterals (99.1 km)
corresponded to 26% of the SAR estimate of 375 km and 104% of the revised target of 95.1
km; new unlined laterals (not foreseen in the SAR) totaled 102.1 km (52% of the revised
target); new drains 203.9 km (119% of the SAR and 92% of the revised objectives); and
land levelling 49,000 ha (82% of both SAR and revised estimates). This rehabilitation
program was in fact no more than deferred maintenance, and most restored infrastructure is
now due for new rehabilitation. The road building, 317.1 km constructed by the project,
surpassed both the SAR by 561% and the revised targets (by 19%). This was a major
achievement because it contributed to improve the marketing of produce in the project area.
6.03 Operation and Maintenance. Water allocation and delivery were well organized.
They were based on a demand arrangement deriving from annual cropping patterns
established by the Irrigation Districts in agreement with farmers organizations. To get water
use authorization, individual farmers had to: (a) obtain from the Irrigation District and the
Vegetable Sanitary Commission a yearly permit to plant the selected cropping pattern;V
(b) pay water charges; and (c) confirm that irrigation ditches were well maintained. The
irrigation program was then established on a weekly basis for each zone, based on individual
demand, and subsequently consolidated at the district level.
6.04 The average conveyance-and-distribution efficiency for the past 11 years has been
estimated at 60% and 58% respectively (see Annex 2, Table 1), about 15% below the
expected 70% foreseen at appraisal. It is based on the volume of water diverted from the
Sinaloa de Levya and the two Rio Fuerte diversion dams, which is delivered to the farmers
of the Rio Sinaloa and Rio Fuerte districts respectively. With an estimated 65% average
field-efficiency rate, the overall irrigation efficiency was 40% for the Rio Fuerte district
(80% of the SAR estimate) and 38% for the Rio Sinaloa district (76% of the SAR estimate).
This lower-than-expected performance was due mainly to poor maintenance of the irrigation
network.
6.05 Except for some breaks in the concrete lining of the lateral and sub-lateral canals, the
irrigation and drainage infrastructure was generally well constructed, but deficiencies in
maintenance meant that it gradually deteriorated. This caused increasing operational
difficulties. The maintenance problems were caused mainly by the low water charges
This requirement is expected to be lifted under AGSAL II.



- 11 -
collected by the Irrigation Districts. The project was expected to progressively raise these
until full cost recovery was achieved (see para. 5.09). In fact, in 1990, water charges
covered only about 30% of direct operation and maintenance costs. The water losses caused
by poor operation and maintenance and four consecutive years of drought (1986 to 1989)
resulted in substantial reduction of the annually irrigated areas.
6.06 Floods. In December 1990-January 1991, the Fuerte valley was stricken by
catastrophic floods (estimated to be the largest in 200 years), which caused serious damages
to the Miguel Hidalgo dam spillway and considerably affected the irrigation infrastructure of
units IV and V of the Rio Fuerte irrigation scheme. The floods partially destroyed two main
canals (Sicae and Cahuinahua) and laterals feeding the above irrigation units, provoked the
sedimentation of the drainage system, destroyed two bridges, ruined feeder roads, seriously
affected one third of the on-farm network, flooded about 49,000 ha of croplands, caused
production losses in about 19,500 ha estimated at about US$14.3 million and immobilized a
total irrigable area of about 68,000 ha to further production. The damage in the spillway,
involving widespread undermining and dislocation of concrete slabs, derived in part from the
poor maintenance of the dam. The downstream effects were enhanced by ill-designed
bridges which dammed up the water and were eventually destroyed by the flood. The total
losses, including those derived from the above mentioned crop losses, damaged irrigation
infrastructure (about US$10 million) and destroyed off-scheme investments (houses,
warehouses, machinery, animals, etc.-- totalling about US$16 million) were estimated at the
time at about US$40 million. Although they were not a determining factor of the poor
performance of the Fuerte subproject, the 1990-91 floods contributed, however, to diminish
its overall accomplishment indicators. About US$2.5 million of the loan, upon Bank
approval, were used to rehabilitate under an emergency schedule the two above main canals
and laterals, while the other restoration works, estimated at about US$7 million, were
decided to be financed under the IDSP loan then in its final negotiation stage.
6.07 Agricultural Production. (See Part Im, Table 6 A). According to available
statistics, the cropping intensity averaged 156% in the Rio Fuerte district (maximum 186%)
and reached 157% in the Rio Sinaloa scheme, while SAR estimates had been 110% and
124% respectively. These figures appear to disagree somewhat with supervision reports and
mission observations, and must therefore be treated with some caution. The benefits
revealed in the production analysis in this document are intended primarily for drawing
qualitative conclusions and determine trends rather than for measuring quantitative impacts.
6.08   The expansion curve presented a peak in 1989: 148,000 ha (151% of SAR
estimates). The bottom, in 1988, was 44,500 ha (45% of SAR forecasts). The average
expansion over the project period was 83,000 ha (85% of SAR estimates for project
maturity) and the average over the three last implementation years was 127,000 (129% of the
forecasts). The crop area expansion of the two project differed. In Sinaloa II (Annex 2,
Graph 2), the average was 62,500 (116% of the SAR target), the maximum was 107,000 ha
(198% of the target) in 1989, while in 1988 the expansion had been only 42,000 ha (78% of
the target); the average area expansion of the three last implementation years was 96,500 ha
(178% of the SAR predictions). In Rio Fuerte, (Annex 2, Graph 3), the average expansion
was 8,800 ha (20% of the foreseen 44,000 ha target), the maximum was 28,000 ha (64% of
the target), and for two years the total area cropped was below the pre-project situation



- 12 -
(-15,000 ha in 1983 and -9,500 ha in 1988). The average expansion over the last three years
was 20,000 ha (only 45% of the SAR target). This low performance resulted mainly from
suboptimal water-use efficiency compounded by water shortages from droughts (1986 to
1989) and salinity problems that the project failed to neutralize.
6.09 The development of the cropping pattern did not follow SAR forecasts. Contrary to
predictions, crops such as cotton, rice, safflower, and sugarcane--which were among the
most important crops before the project--were almost phased out or had their areas
considerably reduced. This was mainly because of increasingly unfavorable market
conditions in a competitive environment. The gradual suppression of guaranteed prices
(except for maize and beans) beginning in 1990 and the liberalization of imports reduced
farmers' net margins for most crops and forced them to seek more rewarding altematives.
Ejido farmers were the most affected by these changes. A great number of them were
limited to the production of maize and beans, the only crops still subject to guaranteed
prices, because ejido farmers lacked sufficient investment capital. Many small producers
chose to rent out their lands to large private farmers while entrepreneurial farmers shifted to
more intensive crops such as vegetables, potatoes, and short-cycle fruit crops (melon,
strawberries, and so on.)
6.10 Taking the average of the last three implementation years as the reference year for
project maturity, production increases were above SAR estimates for vegetables (280% of
expectations), maize and sorghum (168%), and soy (112%). The production of wheat,
expected to decrease with the project, increased by 268,000 tons, and the production of
potatoes (not foreseen by the SAR as a major crop) increased by 34,000 tons. This
performance was due to a steady positive net margin shown by the hectare-budgets of these
crops over the period. On the other hand, owing to repeated negative net margins, the
production of cotton decreased by 23,000 tons instead of increasing, as projected, by 47,000
tons; rice production, expected to decrease by 23,000 tons, plunged by 40,000 tons and,
along with safflower (expected to reach 110,000 tons at completion), was almost reduced to
zero by 1989/90. Perennials, such as fruit, sugarcane, and pastures (including alfalfa), were
not developed by the project, contrary to expectations. The sugarcane area, traditionally
covering over 20,000 ha, was significantly reduced in the last few years because of
managerial and technical constraints at the processing level. In fact, the only sugar mill in
the area, a state-owned mill, had been operating with chronic losses and was recently
privatized. The whole sugar production chain (agricultural and industrial) is now being
replanned, the planted area will be concentrated within an economic radius from the mill.
Sugarcane farmers will receive technical assistance directly from the industry.
6.11 Crop Yields fluctuated widely, and increases were generally modest, denoting a
failure in overall technology transfer. Significant productivity gains were obtained with
maize: from 2.27 tons per hectare (1979-80) to 4.3 tons per hectare (1990-91), an 89%
increase; the average over the last three implementation years was 3.5 t/ha (54% increase).
The average yields of beans increased from 1.0 ton/ha to 1.4 tons/ha (40% increase).
Modest increases were obtained with soybeans (15%), potatoes (13%), vegetables (6%) and
wheat (5%), while cotton and rice decreased about 25% and 13% respectively. Although not
confirmed by monitoring, information gathered by the mission from project extension agents
and farmers indicates that commercial farmers obtained significantly higher yields than ejido
farmers, owing to their higher technological level. This would explain the impressive yield



- 13 -
increase for maize. A growing number of private farmers, stimulated by attractive
guaranteed prices, have been expanding their maize areas using new technology. The
reduced productivity increase of vegetable crops--although mainly cultivated by large
producers--is attributable to the lower yields of table tomatoes, whose area increase was
considerably more important than that of the higher-yielding tomatoes for local industry. Rio
Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa like most Mexican irrigation districts have been designed and
constructed in line with the Agrarian Reform and the policy of prioritizing staples grains
production. Thus, they were primarily designed to serve a single crop at a time on a rigid
delivery schedule, for application of large supplies of water, with long irrigation intervals
(e.g. 15-40 days), and with minimal flexibility for changes in delivery schedules. These
rigid schemes are not compatible with cropping patterns for high value crops (fruits and
vegetables) or for the optimization of grain yields.
6.12 Research. Although crop productivity was below expectations, research results
obtained during implementation show that better performance was possible. Technologies
developed by research stations for traditional crops enabled farmers to increase their revenues
some 30 to 40% (about half from increased yields and half from reduced costs). The main
achievements leading to these results include (see para. 5.10): (a) higher potential yields in
on-farm tests for maize (8 tons per hectare against 5 tons per hectare for the average
technology), wheat (6 tons per hectare against 4.5 tons per hectare), beans (2.4 tons per
hectare against 1.3 tons per hectare), and potatoes (50 tons per hectare against 30 tons per
hectare); (b) improved cropping systems, in particular involving minimum-tillage techniques,
mainly for planting soy after wheat; and (c) optimal watering patterns, with significant cost
reductions at equivalent yields. However, because of deficient technology transfer, the
adoption of improved technologies was rather limited, although it appears to be improving as
a result of the influence of private extension. Research stations introduced some 40 different
crop species/varieties to create economic alternatives for the ejido sector. Experiments with
cattle feedlots using crop residues were also carried out successfully.
6.13 Economic Analysis. (See Annex 1). The economic rate of return (ERR) for the two
combined subprojects (Rio Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa), assuming project benefits over a period
of 25 years, was estimated at 10.6%, significantly lower than the SAR estimate of 17.9%
(see Part III, Table 6.b). This discrepancy was due mainly to the project's slow
implementation rate, the cropping of smaller areas in some years because of drought, lower
than expected gains in yields, reduced prices caused by declining international prices, and
lower production subsidies in Mexico. The ERR of 10.6% resulted mainly from the area
increase of the Rio Sinaloa II subproject and from the significant growth of the vegetable
subsector, but the performance of Rio Fuerte was far below expectations. A separate
analysis put the ERR for Rio Sinaloa II alone at 14.4%. It was 3.1% for Rio Fuerte. When
added to benefits from Rio Sinaloa I and the Bacurato power plant, the project ERR over a
25 year period remains at the 10.1 % level. The ERR for the power plant alone (benefits of
electricity extended to year 2006) was estimated at 16.9%. The ERRs estimated for the
various subprojects involved, considered separately and in various combinations (benefits
over 25 years), are:



- 14 -
(a) Sinaloa I Project                               7.9%
(b) Rio Fuerte/Sinaloa II
Rio Fuerte                                    3.1%
Rio Sinaloa II                               14.4%
Fuerte/Sinaloa II combined                   10.6%
(c) Power Plant                                    16.9%
(d) Global analysis (a+b+c)
With Rio Fuerte                              10.1%
Without Rio Fuerte                           11.2%
6.14 Social Benefits. The project was to enhance the land-reform development and equity
objectives of Mexico's nationwide irrigation program by directly benefitting 19,700 families
comprising 17,250 ejido farmers and 2,450 private farmers. It was to decrease on-farm
unemployment by providing an extra 3.3 million person-days of labor each year when it was
fuly developed. The total number of families assisted by the project was 14,144 (72% of
SAR estimates), of which 6,939 were in Rio Fuerte (54% of estimates) and 7,205 in Sinaloa
(101 %) (see Part IH, Table 4A). While the targets of the Rio Sinaloa II subproject were
met, reflecting a satisfactory performance of the civil works and area development program,
the lower than expected achievements of the Rfo Fuerte subproject were directly related to
the poor performance of its soil reclamation program and the failure to reach all the civil
works targets. Declining revenues, the difficulty experienced by smaUholders in improving
efficiency, penetrating markets monopolized by small groups of large producers, and
increased emphasis on efficiency expressed by liberalizing policy measures introduced by the
Government in recent years, stimulated the expansion of entrepreneurial farming and
discouraged an increasing number of ejido farmers from direct farming. This led to the
incorporation of ejido lands by large farmers through informal (then illegal) rental
arrangements. This expansion of entrepreneurial farming to some extent reduced some of the
project's social objectives. The new Agrarian Law of 1991 and new regulations have
legalized these rentals.
6.15 Secondary Benefits. The secondary sector expanded remarkably in the project area
though this was not directly attributable to the project activities and was difficult to measure
for lack of readily available data. This sector included an increasing number of agro-
industries, packing houses, entrepots, input dealers, and agricultural services firms that
flourished in the project region over the past decade. Its expansion showed the positive
impact made by the RIo Fuerte and Rfo Sinaloa irrigation schemes on the local economy.
The urban development of the two main cities Los Mochis and Guasave is impressive.



- 15 -
7. Project Sustainability
7.01  Project sustainability for both Rio Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa districts has been affected
by poor maintenance resulting from a lack of funds for operation and maintenance during
1983-1990. This weakness seriously affected the operation profile, reducing water
efficiency, creating drainage problems, complicating water deliveries, and reducing harvested
area and productivity. It led to deterioration of the infrastructure and created a serious
sustainability problem by reducing investment effectiveness to unduly short, uneconomic
inter-rehabilitation periods. The lack of sufficient funds for operation and maintenance
resulted mostly from the Government's failure to raise water charges enough to cover
operation and maintenance costs. This problem is now solved through the direct involvement
of the water users organizations (WUOs) in the operation and maintenance functions of both
districts. Through a nationwide program supported by the Bank-financed IDSP (Loan 3419-
ME)started in 1991, the Government transferred (in 1992) the operation and maintenance
(O&M) functions to the Water Users Associations of the Rio Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa
districts. As a result, cost recovery from the collection of water fees jumped from about
30% in 1991 to 100% in 1993 in both districts. Since then O&M improved substantially,
confirming the appropriateness of the strategy to assure sustainability conditions for the
project, which were jeopardizes by the previous shortage of O&M funds.
8. Bank Performance
8.01 Project Concept and Design. The SAR project concept was basically correct,
although it failed to take into account local funding constraints and management problems or
to anticipate possible power benefits (power studies have not been completed at the time of
appraisal). Some design shortfalls, due to defective basic data, 3' reduced the efficiency of
the irrigation schemes. This was particularly relevant to the poor performance of the Fuerte
scheme, where very marginal saline soils were included in the reclamation program.
8.02 Supervision. The Bank detected the main problems early on such as the differing
execution pace of Fuerte and Sinaloa, operation and maintenance deficiencies, the low water
charges, and inadequate counterpart funding--but was not very successful in enforcing
corrective measures during the economic crisis of the mid-1980s. The Bank's assumption by
the mid-1980s seems to have been that Mexico's economic difficulties would soon be
overcome and that the implementation deficiencies would be resolved as a consequence.
8.03 The Bank failed to detect the unfeasibility of part of the soil reclamation program and
to correct the relevant targets accordingly. Until 1989-1990 the Bank also failed to
appreciate the project management's failure to keep separate accounts for the agricultural
rainfed and irrigation (cost financed by the Bank) of the extension and research components
and its use of loan funds for the recurrent costs of extension. In 1990 the latter problem was
c Deficient soil data in the Sinaloa district and the inclusion in the Reclamation component of
marginal areas (below the 5 m altitude level) in Units IV and V of the Fuerte district.



- 16 -
resolved with the Borrower. This indicates, on the one hand, an inadequate assessment of
the project's agricultural aspects during implementation and, on the other, the lack of an
efficient project coordinating unit. Bank supervision missions also failed to identify the lack
of such a unit. The reorganization of SARH at the field level--merging the extension
services of the irrigation districts with the rainfed area extension--was the main root of this
problem.
9. Borrower Performance
9.01 The Borrower's performance was affected negatively by serious overall economic
difficulties. The resulting counterpart funding constraints were responsible for the project's
slow and deficient execution progress. Some implementation deficiencies, however, could
have been minimized by more effective administrative intervention and are, therefore,
attributable to management weaknesses and to the lack of a strong coordinating unit for both
subprojects.1 They include, particularly (a) the imbalanced execution rate of the two
subprojects, which contributed to the poor performance of the Rio Fuerte soil reclamation
component; (b) the setting of insufficient water charges, resulting in poor operation and
maintenance, deterioration of infrastructure, increased soil drainage problems, and reduced
yields; (c) the muddling of project and non-project funds, especially for extension and
research components; and (d) poor agricultural monitoring, rendering project evaluation
difficult. The Borrower to some extent also failed to transfer technology to small ejido
farmers and thus failed to deal with the equity problems arising from the Government's
liberalization policy.
10. Project Relationship
10.01 The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was good. Fund reallocations
and extensions of completion dates, as well as the cancellation of unused loan funds, were
decided by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
10.02 The relationship of the Bank and Borrower with other Government agencies such as
the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit and the Secretariat of Planning and
Programming were normal and functioned along well established lines.
11. Consulting Services
11.01 No major consulting services were required after project preparation.
E Each subproject had an independent implementation organization.



- 17 -
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01 The project design and description in the SAR were based on not entirely sound
baseline data, particularly regarding hydrology, soils, salinity and agro-engineering aspects in
Rio Fuerte. Design problems thus resulted in a lower drainage network density than
required, an underestimated irrigation infrastructure, and the need to readjust the Sinaloa
development program. Nevertheless, the SAR provided an adequate yardstick for the
implementation and monitoring of all key activities. Project covenants were clearly
stipulated for effective implementation. However, mainly because of counterpart funding
constraints, amendments were introduced to adjust fund allocations, extend the closing date,
reduce total costs, and cancel unused loan funds. Monitoring and data collection were
deficient, hampering accurate economic analysis.
13. Lessons Learned
13.01 Like many other projects implemented in Latin America in the 1980s, the project was
seriously affected by an unfavorable macroeconomic environment, institutional instability,
and severe funding constraints. This confirms the importance of a sound macroeconomic and
institutional context as a condition for successful project implementation.
13.02 The lack of an integrated project coordinating unit for the two projects, together with
changes in the institutional structure responsible for project execution, contributed to relaxing
the implementation discipline established by the Loan Agreement. As a result, participating
agencies, such as that for extension and research, and the Irrigation Districts lost sight of
their commitment to project objectives. Project and non-project activities were muddled
together, maintenance activities were neglected because of funding problems, and project
performance was jeopardized. It appears that the establishment of a strong project
coordinating unit is vital to ensuring smooth implementation when many participating
agencies are involved, particularly under unstable institutional conditions.
13.03 The experience of this project shows that deficient maintenance of irrigation
infrastructure can neutralize the impact of irrigation investments, because it reduces water
efficiency, contributes to drainage problems and in some cases soil salinization, and thus
reduces the irrigable area and jeopardizes sustainability. The lack of sufficient funds, owing
to the Government's failure to raise water charges to cover operation and maintenance costs,
is at the root of the problem. The only solution for this problem seems to be the direct
involvement of water users in the operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes. The
Government has already started a nationwide program to transfer substantial operation and
maintenance responsibilities, now under the Irrigation Districts, to the beneficiaries.
13.04 The implementation experience demonstrated also that reclamation programs for saline
soils have to be analyzed carefully case by case, to avoid the inclusion of economically
irrecuperable soils--most of which were included originally in this project for non-technical
reasons.



- 18 -
13.05 While the traditional, paternalistic approach to development inhibited dynamic growth
and limited the economic viability of irrigation projects, the recent introduction of
competitiveness and an appropriate policy environment has motivated spontaneous
development on a rapidly increasing scale. In fact, the Government's present market-
oriented policy is encouraging farmers to take risks: they are investing in improved
technology, alternative crops, and new agro-industry activities and developing new markets.
Private technical assistance is flourishing. It is assisting farmers who are prepared to adopt
more sophisticated technologies, and its impact on yields and output quality, although still
limited, appears to be positive.
13.06 However, the trend to increased efficiency was counterbalanced by equity problems
because the most dynamic entrepreneurial farmers, stimulated by profit opportunities,
substantially enlarged their cropped areas at the expense of less competitive small producers,
by renting lands from ejido farmers. This shows that special attention has to be paid in
future to assisting ejidos to compete successfully or to giving them other alternatives.
13.07 The Rio Sinaloa Project (I & II) is a typical multipurpose water resource project that
includes irrigation as a major objective but also has significant benefits from power
generation, flood control, and municipal water supply. These benefits were not taken into
account at appraisal apparently because the designs and study for hydropower development
were not complete at that time. The inclusion of a power plant late in the implementation
stage to maximize benefits from the use of water in the Bacurato reservoir, almost doubled
the ERR of Sinaloa I, where agricultural activities were marginal. This shows that
agricultural and non-agricultural activities can be complementary and should be considered
together at the planning phase, particularly when heavy investments such as dams are
involved.
13.08 The significant growth of the secondary sector in the project area during
implementation, due largely to agricultural production, indicates that the project was able to
bring substantial economic development to the region in spite of the shortfalls. Most
particularly, the growth of this sector reflects the great potential of the area and shows that
further investment aimed at improving the efficiency of the use of water (the limiting factor
for expansion) would be worth considering.
13.09 The restriction of flexibility on water delivery schedules that constrains opportune
(frequent) and light irrigations and thus limit crop potential yields and diversification is an
issue in Rio Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa, as well as in most of Mexican gravity Irrigation
Districts. Future rehabilitation and modernization programs should address this restriction in
order to achieve better economic results. The new projects should also include
modernization concepts to tackle this problem.
13.10 Lessons learned from the 1990-91 flood episode include:
(a)   Dam safety and hydraulic infrastructure safety concems should be included in
major gravity irrigation schemes, to ensure the maintenance of the concerned
structures and thus avoid or minimize such catastrophic downstream damages
as occurred during the Fuerte floods.



- 19 -
(b)   An effective storm monitoring system, which in the event ensured the
broadcast of early warning alarms and allowed the timely evacuation of the
concerned population from the risk area, is an important instrument of public
good concerns to be supported, particularly under the risky meteorological and
geological conditions of Mexico constantly hit by thunderstorms, hurricanes,
tornadoes and earthquakes.
(c)   The construction of bridges in major rivers with excessive earth embankments
that obstruct the free flow of water must be avoided.






- 21 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
PART H - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S STANDPOINT
1. Introduction
1.1         On behalf of the Borrower (NAFIN), the Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA),
through its Subdirecci6n General de Planeaci6n y Finanzas, prepared an ex-post evaluation of
the above project and delivered an English version to the Bank on February 16, 1993 and an
updated Spanish version on May 28, 1993 (available in LAC Files). The full report is in
Spanish and will be delivered soon to project files. It contains a detailed description of the
project implementation and of the Government's view of various aspects of the Rio
Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Project. It presents data on background, objectives, description, design,
organization, results, consultation, Bank and government performance, project relationships,
consulting services and documentation. Also a set of tables is presented in support to the
main text. This section contains a summary of the main report, translated into English by
CNA, focusing in the Government's view and the conclusions reached regarding its own and
Bank's performance, and the recommendation to the Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Project.
1.2         The Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Project, in the north of the state of Sinaloa, was
conceived by the Government of Mexico, with Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) as the borrower
and SARH as the implementing agency. The World Bank (WB) granted the Loan 1706-ME
for the rehabilitation, construction and expansion of the drainage and distribution networks
and the desalinization of soils in the Irrigation Districts No. 75, Rio Fuerte; and No. 63,
Guasave.
1.3         The project was part of the Government's strategy of the seventies aimed at
recuperating the high levels of agricultural growth obtained during the former decades and
assuring food self-sufficiency.
1.4         The Irrigation District No. 75, Rio Fuerte, was created in 1951 by a Federal
Executive Decree and, initially, from 1952 to 1984, was operated by the Rio Fuerte
Commission. This District covers an area of approximately 250,000 ha, and is divided into
five Irrigation Units supplied with water from the Miguel Hidalgo Dam. The destruction of
part of the distribution and drainage systems towards the end of the fifties, due to
meteorological catastrophes, obliged the authorities to carry out the rehabilitation of the
Irrigation Units 2 and 3 at the beginning of the sixties. Some years later, planning was
begun to rehabilitate Units 1, 4 and 5, corresponding to the Project area described in this
Report.
1.5         The Irrigation District No. 63 (Guasave), was legally constituted in 1967 by
means of a Federal Executive Decree, although a minor part of its irrigated area had already



- 22 -
been operating since 1944 primarily through groundwater supply. Its actual configuration
dates back to 1974 with the development of a vast investment program that included the
construction of the Bacurato (storage) and Sinaloa de Leyva (diversions) Dams, as well as the
incorporation into irrigation of an area of 105,000 ha with an investment of US$146 million.
However, funding constraints due to economic instability during these years caused a
considerable delay in the construction of the works: only about 29,000 ha were developed
under the project. The government therefore decided to seek financing for the completion of
the original scheme, through a second-phase project.
2. Bank Performance
2.1         WB's assistance to the Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Project was a vital contribution
to the growth of the irrigated areas and agricultural production of the zone. Overall, Bank's
participation during the preparation, appraisal, and project implementation was adequate.
Bank experts established cordial relations with their Mexican counterparts, who received
valuable training as the result of this team work.
2.2         In spite of the adverse circumstances, derived from the severe financial
constraints that the project had to face, the Bank showed considerable flexibility and was
always open to Government proposals aimed to facilitate project implementation. This
helped to assure the timely funding support that was so urgently needed because of the
above-mentioned adverse implementation environment.
2.3         The Bank also contributed to promote technological changes by providing
opportune advice for the purchase of maintenance equipment and for the preparation of
salinity studies in the Fuerte area. The implementation experience contributed to train
technical staff in the use of modern irrigation technology in the area and support the adoption
of more adequate techniques for the development of the national irrigation sector at large.
2.4          The Bank's participation in the funding of the project was adequate. On
various occasions, disbursement allocations were modified in order to assist in giving
solutions to the problems brought about by the financial crisis, and in adjusting the project's
cost structure to the changes caused by the abrupt variations of the currency exchange rates.
The procedures and implementation of the disbursements were carried out efficiently and
without difficulties. The Bank also accepted to continue collaborating in the funding of the
project through the loan that will support the Irrigation and Drainage Sector Program.
2.5         Bank supervision during implementation was useful and propitiated valuable
technical interchange and collaboration during the implementation of the Project.
3. Government Performance
3.1         The Government of Mexico gave adequate attention to project preparation.
Studies were carried out to provide the necessary basis for adequate project formulation.
Project implementation covenants were generally complied with, and only partially in two
cases (operation and maintenance funds and separate project accounts for extension
expenditures). Insufficient commitment to the operation and maintenance of the irrigation
infrastructure was a major deficiency. This derived mainly from the Government's difficulty



- 23 -
in updating water charges. The Government's commitment to keep separate accounts for
project expenditures was only partially complied with, while the carrying out of a
socioeconomic study, aimed to determine the paying capacity of water users, as well as the
organization of periodic meetings as contractually agreed upon were, except for the delays,
entirely accomplished.
3.2         Implementation delays derived mainly from Mexico's deteriorating economy in
the eighties. Project scope adjustments were introduced during implementation, in agreement
with the Bank, with the aim to minimize these problems and continue giving the irrigation
districts the minimum development impulses allowed by the severe funding constraints
imposed by the adverse macroeconomic environment. Under the circumstances, the
Government demonstrated flexibility and pragmatism in its decisions on priorities during
implementation.
3.3          Project start-up and implementation activities were carried out following the
normal procedures of the Government. However, due mainly to the lack of adequate inter-
institutional coordination, it appears that the Government failed to optimally focus
investment priorities, such as the purchase of maintenance equipment and the carrying out of
salinity studies, especially in the Fuerte valley, thus failing to address the soil salinity
problem more effectively. It appears, however, that in the late project implementation phase
the maintenance services have improved, and it is expected that with the transfer of operation
and maintenance responsibilities to the users, promoted by the Government under the IDSP
program, satisfactory levels of infrastructure maintenance will be achieved. While the
maintenance services were deficient, the construction and rehabilitation activities were,
conversely, satisfactorily executed according to the technical criteria approved by the Bank.
4. Project Results
4.1         Project Objectives. The excessively delayed project implementation pace had
a major impact on the tardy generation of the expected benefits. However, in spite of the
afore-mentioned deficiencies and although total project achievements were below
expectations, it can still be considered that the Sinaloa subproject satisfactorily achieved its
main objectives. The irrigation development initiated under the Sinaloa I Project were
completed as foreseen, thus creating the conditions that led to increased farm production,
improved farmers' revenues, better distribution of benefits and increased national income.
Conversely, the implementation performance of the Rio Fuerte subproject was less effective.
Although the anticipated rehabilitation and soil reclamation targets were only partially
achieved, they contributed to detain further deterioration and to sustain and improve
production levels.
4.2          Physical Results. While the targets of the Sinaloa subproject were essentially
met, those of the Rio Fuerte scheme remained critically behind forecasts. In Rio Sinaloa,
overall achievements came close to 100% of predictions. Some civil works targets actually
surpassed the SAR projections. Area incorporation objectives have been satisfactorily
attained and the SAR cropping intensity estimates have been widely surpassed, leading to
considerably higher than expected production. In the Rio Fuerte subproject, conversely,
project target achievements were lower than expected. Prolonged adverse climatic conditions
contributed to reduce the project's overall production targets, which were also affected by



- 24 -
deviations of the projected cropping patterns caused mainly by the drastic changes in the
nation's economic environment.
4.3         Fmancial Performance. During the first six years of project implementation
(1980-86), only about 65% of the assigned funds were disbursed. After the introduction of a
reallocation scheme and the cancellation of US$10.2 million in 1988, the implementation
pace improved. The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project was estimated at 14.08%,
somewhat lower than the 17.9% estimated at appraisal (Table 5.03.1). The ERRs for Rio
Sinaloa and Rio Fuerte analyzed individually were, respectively, 20.11 % and 4.45 %. This
difference between the performance of the two subprojects is attributable mainly to the lower
than expected achievements of the rehabilitation and reclamation targets in the Rio Fuerte
scheme.
4.4         ERR calculations prepared by CNA were based on the following data and
assumptions: (a) costs and benefits were calculated using the CNA estimated Conversion
Factors; (b) crop production over the implementation period (1980-1991), concerned the
areas effectively benefitted by the project, including the newly incorporated ones, as well as
those areas that were improved, rehabilitated or reclaimed under the project, in both the Rio
Sinaloa and Rio Fuerte Districts; and (c) the cropping pattern evolution adopted for the
without-project scenario was assumed to be the same as the one effectively occurred in the
with-project situation (it was assumed that the cropping patterns changes were determined
essentially by the market); (d) without-project yields were assumed to be unchanged for the
traditional crops and 80% of the with-project yields for the non-traditional crops and 80% of
the with-project yields for the non-traditional crops introduced under the project. Overall,
average yields of the cropping patterns came out to be significantly higher than predicted,
and total production was consequently 50% above forecasts in volume. Moreover, cropping
intensity significantly exceeded the SAR estimates, while highly profitable crops (vegetables)
were extended beyond expectations, particularly in the Rio Fuerte area.
4.5         Project Impact. The project had a positive impact on employment and
income improvement of the small scale producers, although these benefits have been
temporarily diminished because of present market conditions. A recent SARH study on the
project area shows that, over the last 10 years, crop production costs had a much higher
increase than the price of crop outputs.
5. Recommendations for Project Consolidation
5.1         The project produced significant benefits in the following aspects:
(a) expansion of cropping areas under irrigation, which permitted the increase in production
volume; and (b) increased area cropped benefitting a large numbe, of families. However,
water charges have not increased above the inflation rate during the implementation of the
project (1980-1990), and this has severely affected the availability of funds for the operation
and maintenance of the infrastructure.
5.2          The strengthening of the Project in the immediate future will depend on:
firstly, that the projected works, for which the necessary funds have already been foreseen be
totally finished; and secondly, the increase of resources for the maintenance of the
installations affected by deferred conservation. The transfer of the districts to the users of






- 26 -
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
PART III
SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA






- 27 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Loan/Title               Purpose              Year          Status             Comments
l________________________   A pprov
Ln. 969-ME Panuco      Develop 137,000 ha of     1974         Completed in     Slow implementation,
Irr.Project. Loan:     irrigation land in the                 1982             design deficiencies,
US$77M Suppl. loan:    Panuco basin, including                                 budget constraints and
US$25M.              construction of dams,                                   lack of technical
irrigation infrastructure,                              assistance.
and provision of                                        Reevaluated in 1978.
agricultural services                                   Objectives partially
attained. Main issues:
low water charges and
poor O&M; poor
accounting; poor
counterpart funding;
cost overruns.
Ln. 970-ME Sinaloa     Develop 105,000 ha of     1974         Completed in      Slow implementation
Irrig. Project.        irrigation land in the                 1982             for same reasons as
Loan: US$47M           Sinaloa basin, including                                above. Revised in
construction of dams and                                1978: irrigation targets
irrigation infrastructure,                              reduced and corm-
and provision of                                        pleted under Sinaloa II.
agricultural services.                                  Revised objectives
achieved. Main issues:
low water charges and
poor O&M.
Ln. 1858-ME            Rehabilitation and        1980         Completed        PCR under preparation.
Apatzingan Irrig.      expansion of Apatzingan
Project.               irrigation scheme,
Loan:US$160M           covering 88,000 he.
Ln. 1908-ME Ocoroni    Development of 10,000     1981         Completed        PCR completed April
Irrig. Project.        ha of irrigated land and                                 1989. Report
Loan: US$23M           provision of technical                                  No. 7782.
assistance.
Ln. 2100-ME Bajo Rio    Rehabilitation of 105,000    1982     Completed        PRC completed
Bravo /Rio San Juan    ha and provision of                                     December, 1988.
Irrig. Rehebil. Project.    agricultural services                              Report No. 7578.
covering 208,000 ha.
Loan:US$ 1 80M
Ln. 3419-ME Irrigation    Modernization of the   1991         Effective by     The project is expected
and Drainage Sector    Mexican irrigation                     June 1992         to complete the
Project.               subsector, through the                                  rehabilitation program
Loan:USS400M           rehabilitation and transfer                              and correct O&M
to users of 21 irrigation                               deficiencies of the
districts at national level.                            country's main
irrigation schemes
(including Rio
Fuerte/Sinaloa).



- 28 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 2. Proiect Timetable
A. Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of Proiect Timetable
Item          |  Planned Date       Revised Data  |  Actual Date
-Preparation                     03/77              06/78             02/79
-Appraisal Mission               09/78              02/79             02/79
-Loan Negotiations               05/79                   _         05/02/79
Board Approval                  05/79                             05/24/79
-Signature Date                  07/79                   _         07/30/79
Date of Effectiveness        09/01/79              10/79          10/05/79
Closing Date                 07/31/86                1/           06/30/91
Coapletion Date              12/31/85                1/           06/30/91
Source:  Divisional Black Books and Project Timetables.
Comments
No major issues were raised at appraisal, and the only risks that were
considered were that the project execution might be slightly delayed in view
of the volume of activities, or that costs might be higher than estimated
because of increased inflation.
The main issue raised during implementation, and still present at
closing date, was poor O&M--the main factor for low irrigation efficiency and
increased soil salinization. It resulted from another issue-the establishment
of unrealistically low water charges--which impeded cost recovery and led to
steadily deferred maintenance of the irrigation and drainage canals.
I/    Closing Date was extended five times from the original closing date
07/31/1986 (08/01/87; 07/31/88; 07/31/89; 12/31/90 and 06/30/91).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEX ICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 2. Proiect Timetable (Cont.)
B. Project Schedule
QUARTER~ ~~ .~j                         _               _         _   .}~  _fY  IEP'Y   1   IIIK'LK   1 
PnEPAnATION
APPRAISAL MISSION
LOAN NJEGOTIATIOIIIS
nOAnn APrnoVAL
SIGNIATtinE DATE_
nAT! OF fFFFGTJVF?1fSS
COULlIOLT N DATE     U               r-2  r   s          .my  
YEAn ,? i   *l    7 s  islssaseI*   *a62 *e a *.a4 g,  a| gw aei ,  sgf,g
QUAnTEJI'    1F 11                  I   T  11   F    m  T  t          I      i __
ACT UAL



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 3: 14n Disbursmannts
A: Annal and Cwnulative Disbursemnbts (US$ ifion)
________  -        -                       ~~Fiscal   ~Years- ___    ________
1980       1981        1982        1983       1984        1985        1986       1987        1988       1999        1990      19
Appraisal Estimate
- Annual                            2          12          28         28          14          4           4
- Cumulative                        2          14          42         70          84          38         92
Actual Disbursement                 -         4.5        13.2        22.7       34.6        43.8        46.3       51.7        53.4        55.9       66.0      81.8
Actual as % of Estinate                       32          31          32         41          50         50          56          58         61          72        39 
Date of Final Disbursement: 31/12/1990.
Amount Cancelled: USS10.2 million.
B: Cumulative Financed Exvendiur  by Investment Cateory (US$'000s)
Irnvestment Category                                                          C a l e n d a r   Y        e a r s
19S0    1981       1982      1983       1964       1965      1986       1987      19|        1969      1990       1991
Civil Works
(Earthmoving & Building)                   -    4,479    13,155    20,431    31,808    40,639   43,053    45,432    46,941    49,265    59,325    74,587
Equipment                                           -        -         1,299     1,299      1,473     1,473      1,473      1,473     1,473      1,473     1,473
Incremental Operation Costs of
Agricultural Extension Services                                          970     1,475      1,697     1,722      4,875      5,009     5,154      5,229     5,752
and Studies
Total Categories                                 4,479    13,155    22,700    34,582   3U,809   4,2481   51,780  |53,43    55,892    66,027    81,812
Source:  World Bank Disbursement Department.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 4: Project IMPlementation
A: General objectives
Project Cqpletion Targets
Project Component                    ULnit              a      J      b             c              d             e             f
SARI'       Detait4'       Progress      Progress       (d) as        (d) as
Design       asof21          as of           X             X
12'iYO        0             of (a)       of (b)
Part A: Fuerte District
1. Rehabilitation
M Main Canal                                  km                  1.7            1.7           1.7           1.7            100          100
.  Unlined Main Canals                        km                130.0         148.6          139.6         139.6            107           94
.  Unlined Laterals                           km                600.0         622.4          409.6         409.6             68           66
.  Drains                                     km                154.0         379.4          326.1         329.1            214           87
2. Construction
.  New Lined Laterals                         km                375.0          95.1           95.4          99.1             26          104
N ew Unlined Laterals                         km                  0.0         194.8           98.0         102.1              -           52
N New Drains                                  km                171.0         221.9          201.9         203.9            119           92
.  Service Roads                              km                 48.0         267.0          309.3         317.1            661          119
Land Leveling                              ha            60,000.0       60,000.0      49,039.0      49,039.0             82            82
Soil Reclamation 3/                        ha            60,000.0       60,000.0      30,740.0      30,740.0             51            51
3.  Other Indicators
Rehabilitated Area                         ha           119,630.0    119,630.0          79,779         79,779            66            66
Number of Benefitting Families             Ns            12,751.0       12,751.0       6,814.0       6,939.0             54            54
Part B: Sinaloa District
1. Construction
Lined Main CanaLs                          km                 16.0          16.0            9.0           9.0            56            56
LateraL Canals (unLined)                   km                280.0         425.0         356.1          385.6           138            91
Laterals Canals (Lined)                    km                313.0         172.0          153.5         163.5            52            95
Drainaged Network                          km                510.0         443.0         407.5          441.9            87           100
Roads                                      km                170.0         434.0         373.0          387.7           228            89
Land Clearing                              ha            40,000.0       40,000.0      40,000.0      40,000.0            100           100
Land Levelling                             ha            40,000.0       50,000.0      49,500.0      49,500.0            124            99
2. Other Indicators
Area Under Production                      ha            76,000.0       76,000.0      57,000.0       61,300.0             80           80
Number of Benefitting Farmers             no.              7,119.0       7,119.0 :                    7,205.0            101          101
j   As per Guarantee Agreement.
?/ Reviewed during last supervision mission on June 1989.
3f Soil reclamation: 20,889 ha of saline soils and 4,630 ha of sodic saline soils.
J  Original figures as of SAR have been revised and updated by CNA due to comrpletion of detail design and some specific physical field requirements.
Source: CNA Rio Fuerte and Sinaloa Districts.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table   4t   Project  implementation
Bt   Land  Reclamation  Program  (Rio  Puerte  District)
(I) Salt-Affected Lands at Apraisal Time
ga. TrclasIlas Ara            *ltin. Land              satine-SOla l.ad             Tol.L Salt Atftclad
*t,600        1i,000          34.3           2,000          4.6          17.000          38.9
48,01e         18,300         36.s           5,soo         11.5         24 ,000          S0.0
5             21,922         14,500         Sl.9           4,500         1 .1          19,000          68.0
Toat                30      |     ,000         40.1         12,        ,   110J          60,0606         50.2
(It)   Implemented  Program
YTar                     llnIL I          |          tiL 4                                .i_L          _ TatA      _
1980                        966                        130                        I                       1,211
t001                      3,320                      3,130                      1.2530                    1,20
102                      2,441                      2,220                      1,160                 *   5S627
|Bill                     1 622                      1,400                     1.631                      4,663
1964                      1,16                       1,225                       425                      2,826
oS                        I  *1,049                    400                       340                      1, 19
t106                        405                          0                         o                         6s5
lOll                         42                        363                       443                        846
to If 6C                                                 0                          0                        *6
1050                         94                         65                         5)                       21b
1900                      1,70l                      2,542                        6J4                     5,063
|   Totalw                lZ,12,04     .             11,51t.l                   6,255                     36*740
ftrantaes  at $AR                  76                         46                        33                         51
IaXts La



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUEE/RIO SINALOA IIGATI  PROJCT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Tatble 5St  Project Cogt and FinotncinQ
At cfoject Cost
(US$ million)
srA                                                                           ACVWL cons9
CAIEI3O----                           ------f---------- -                                          ----                         -                   -m Gm- -------S
CMR.  VOFrf4   I L                    l08      161      1082    ION      1054     1065     103      107      low     ION      lwi    toot1  TWOMS           .
C      LW0AS               2as      14.4    352                3.4      66       6S       17      6.       4.3      t0       1.6      a5       6.6     4.3              416      121           L
tlI am"s                    1IL4 , 11.4    27.6                 t.l      04       4.5      2.5      4.6       2       4.4     0.L      04       6.3     2.3              24        101 
Drou                         i3       2.1      Cs               2.2      2.0      t71      05      2.1      0.0      0       0.6        l      ILI     6.6               11t2     113
ftb"                          S       0.3      as               &I       6.2      0.0 UI           0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      01       0.1     0.7              2la      an
witls0                                                                                                                                           .2     0.3               4.S
Swcomium                                                                                                                                               6.1               0.1  1 18
ON-fA            OfA M     11.7      12       6l.             2i5       0.0      7,1      4.3     10       1.5      1.2      to       0.4     1.6      27                .21     to
Lw6t0                        7.4      .1    I2S                 2.3      7.0      64       t.l      I.1      1.0     1.1      64       64       1.0     1.7              23.6      lot
gsad ltu                    4.2 t        1   7.4               02       2.0      0.6      3.2     6.1      Q.6      0.a      0.1      0.0      .0      1.0               64      114
E4CAt4                      6.4      4.0     4.4               0.s      1.0      0.l      03      0.2      0.3                                t5       0.6               5.7     I-t
NGtU f1                    5L5               5.5               as5      1.       2         .      67       6.4      0.2      12      0.2      0.1      0.3               .Z2     14h
u"I''tZAIION                1.2              4.2               (L0      It       0.0 ,    .0                                                                             o.2      44
aIOorAL                  Je       XI      60.2               7.3      2.      tr.5      Va      0.7        4      1.4      t4       1.2      93 0.0                            134
^   C,eLWf                at0.e.   24.      uI                n.,7     20        LI       02      7.t      14       t.t      .*      tit      1.6      13       4.0    72o       12t
6hi nCu.li&  as             34.0    24.2    A&$                 ItJi    26.6      o1J      6.2      7.1      24       1.1      1.6     1.0      L4 23             4.0    72.3      123
ON-tMFJ0-fDIWU              6 *      4.1     0.6               4.0      1.*      2.7      2I       la  t     o0     t.       6.3      0`3     1.0      1 a.2                     "4
LandaaEKIM                   1.0      6.7      1.6              0.0       13      6.2      0.3       A       60      6.4    l.I                         G.2               44      14 4
LwaIQ                        4.0      34        3               4.0      6.9       2.6     1.6      4.4     2.       60       6.2      0.2      1.0     1.4              40.0    236
uUENt                       6.3      2.S     2.6               Q6.      1.0      1.1      6.3     Q.2      0.0       2       .1                       13       1.4      0.0     23
Gf"MIEER40          -        I               Lb                a's      50       2.S1     I.1     1.0      6.       6.3      6.2   n I        aQ 0.  6.2        A1      14.1     204
IOft*O7AIIOW                13               2                 0.0      4.4      12       6.      0.       6.2      at       0.4      0I      6.0      0.6      0.1      LS      36
SILIOTVl                 50.2      0.8     SIo              1.6      3k1      In2      iq       1ag       04       2.7     i        2.0      2.7      t0      5.5   124.2    112
701&FL*sdFF JCTI.Uw            as       574    1471              20.       KG.    os        220      204      Its      &1       4.0      12       6.0    16.1       5     213.2     145
3. 1E0hCILA3UUlNaV
IOTILIEc*4.AUSIASI            0.2      V7       to                                          Is       to       4       0.1      6.3      OJ      I.       0.2      1.6   1.5       t
NLML Fe6ADJlU& $l               5.       4        7. 
ri. COM EO4IEU                 61.2     232       .5                                                                                                                                   0
GP"   TOLR.                                   VIC               Mt       0.       35.7     no      21.4     113       0.2    11.3       .4      4.2     1.        0.6  224.7        s



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 5 Proiect Cost and Financing (Cont.)
3: Proiect Financing
(US$ Killion)
SAR                                   ACTUAL                        BANK t
CATEGORY      ------------------------------------- _________________________________
Rio Fuerte
Civil Works          35.1.            26.5             61.6   47.4          27.5            74.9    43.0%         36.7%
Equipment             0.4              4.0              4.4    5.1           0.7             5.7    90.0%         12.0%
Engineering           5.5                               5.5    8.2                           8.2     0.0%          0.0%
Indemnization         1.2                               1.2    0.2                           0.2     0.0%          0.0%
Subtotal           42.3             30.5             72.8   60.8          28.2            89.0    41.9%         31.7%
Rio Sinaloa II
Civil Works          43.1             32.5             75.6   48.0          47.1            95.1    43.0%         49.5%    c
Equipment             0.3              2.5              2.8    5.8           0.8             6.6    90.0%         12.0%    '
Engineering           6.9                               6.9   14.1                          14.1     0.0%          0.0t
Indemnization         2.3                               2.3    8.5                           8.5     0.0%          0.0%
Subtotal           52.6             35.0            87.6   76.3           47.9           124.2    40.0%         38.6%
Extension/Research    7.7               9.0             16.7    5.7            5.8           11.5    54.0%         50.0%
Equipment             0.2              1.5              1.7                                         90.0%
Incremental           7.5              7.5             15.0    5.7           5.8            11.5    50.0%         50.0%
Costs I/
142.8          81.8           224.7    42.1%         36.4%
Total             102.5             74.5            177.0
Contingencies         55.2             17.5             72.7
142.8          81.8           224.7    36.8%        36.4%
Grand Total        157.7             92.0            249.7
j/ After amendment to the Loan Agreement (September, 1987), US$4 million of unallocated loan funds were allowed to be
spent under the incremental operational costs of agricultural extension services, increasing the allocated amount on
this category from US$7.5 million to US$11.5 million.



- 35 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators         SAR            Actual                 %
Incremental                                        ------(etrs- (hectares)
Area Cropped                98500         116211            118
Cotton                    +14400            -9176          -163
Rice                        -7400           -7612             -2
Wheat                       -2400          62191           2691
Soy                       +24500           33366            136
Maize + Sorghum            +5500           26431            480
Pulses                    +29900              -35             -1
Potatoes                                    1403
Vegetables                 +1000            9643            964
Other 1/                  +33000
Incremental        ---------------       (tons)
Production                 282460         631084            223
Cotton                    +46760          -23455           -150
Rice (paddy)               -23660          -40161           -170
Wheat                       -4140         268415           6583
Soy                       +70550           79499            112
Maize + Sorghum           +67030          112505            168
Pulses                    +58920           12418             21
Potatoes                        -          33995
Vegetables                +67000          187868            280
I/   Includes perennials (not developed by the project) and animals (like
safflower) that were phased out.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 6: Project Results
B: Cash Flow in Economic Prces (M-e  MHIlon)
I. Rh F                                           1910      191t       1982      1913      1984       1985       1916      197        19        199        1990      1991        1992
1. CuhfiowinCunem tPrices                         -145      -343       -609      -765       -759      -360       512        1OIS      6550      31132     10165      15466      20764
U. Inflat                                           1.26      1.21      1.59      2.02       1.65      1.53        1.36      2.32      2.14       1.2       1.3        1.2
m. Ca .ifow incoastzaptice                       -145       -276       -373      -293      -141       -42         33        41         112       250        68        30          39
ERR: 3.1S
1. Rh SmaJu                                      1980       19M1       1912      1913      1984       1915       1916      1          1918      19         1989      1991        1m
I. Cbow in Crreat Pzicm  (1910                   -263       -342       -347      -154      1350       1390       5357      -2372     31625    139641    55628        5370       45767
IL Iaflim Rdb                                      1.26       1.28      1.59      2.02       1.65      1.53        1.36      2.32      2.14       1.2       1.3        1.2
M.abflowicon.aazprimc(19S0)                       -263      -663       -525      -60        251       221        397        -94       543        1120      372        30          192
ERR. 14.4%
m. Rh ner b-Rh  asoa C9mbi8s1 1910                          1          1912      1983      1          1915       1916      1987       1981      1989       1990      1991        19
I. CashfiowinCuaP iceP (1910)                    -4         -1190     -1456      -919       591       1530       5369      -1354     33175    170773    65793        21336      66531
IL    IiormaRw                                    1.26       1.28      1.59      2.02       1.65      15         1.36       2.32      2.14       1.2        1.3       1.2
mL Cuhflaw  in comml prcus                        -403      -944       -903      -353       110       179        435        -54       655        1369      440        110        342
ERR: 10.6%



- 37 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 7: Status of Covenants
Lo nJ                        Description of Condition                   |             Project
Guarantee                                                                                Status
Agreement
Covenants Net
3.01                NAFIN1' to m_ke contractual arrangements with the           Compied.
G043 satisfactory to the Bank
3.02                The GON sholt enter into the contractural                   CompLied.
arrangoments with NAFIN referred to in Section 3.01
of the Loan Agreement
3.03 (b) 0i)        The GON shell mIntain or cause to be m_intained             Complied.
records adequate to record the progress of the
Project tincLuding Its coat), the results achieved
by the Project, and the extent to which the
investment, operation and maintenance costs of the
faciLities provided under the Project have been
recovered as required by the provisions of this
Agreement, to identify the goods nd services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to
disclose their use in the project.
3.02 (b) (ii)       The GON shell  nable the Bank's accredited                  Complied.
representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to
oxemine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Lon  nd any relevant records  nd documents.
3.03 Cb) (iii)      The GON to furnish the Bank project rolated                 Compli ed.
information nd the expenditures of proceeds of the
Loan used to finance goods and services included in
the project
3.03 (c)            Promptly after completion of the Project, but in            Compifed.
any event not later than one year after the Cosing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Guarantor and the Bank prepared
and furnish to the Bank a report on the execution
and initial operation of the Project, Its costs nd
benefits nd on the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan
3.08 (a)            The GON shall charge  nd collect water charges, on    Complied with delay.  Before
the basis of the ability of water users to pay and    1991 both Irrigation
the ne d to maintain an incentive for them to make    Districts had difficulties
best use of the land and water available to them,           In establishIng adequate
as shall be necessay to recover all the operation           rates. This issue is now
nd maintenanco costs of the irrigation facilities    resolved under the
included in the Project and as much as practicabLe    Irrigation and Drainsge
of their investment cost.                                   Sector Project, with the 011
responsibilitifs transferred
to water users associations.
1'   NAFRN - Naciond Fuaiers S.A.
V    Govenment of Mexico.



- 38 -
PROJECT COPTION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO DINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-lS)
Table 7. Status of Covenants (Cont.)
Lon        |                Description of Condition                              Project
Cuarantee                                                                            Status
Agree_nt
3.08 (b)           The GCM shall tI) not later than December 1,1984,        Coaupl ed.  The study wa
carry out a socio-economic study in the area of the   finished only in 1988.
Project to determine inter Wlei the ability of
water users to pay for the cost of frrigation; and
(iI) periodically review such study with a view to
revising such charges, if appropriate.
4.02 (a)           The GON shall mintaln or cause to be mintained           Partial coepliance. The
separate accounts adeute to reflect In accordance   Research  nd Extenson
with consistently mintainrd sounzd accounting            Services have not kept
practices the resources and expenditures in respect   seperate accounts as
of the Project of the departments or agencies of         convened.
the Guarantor responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
4.02 (b) (c)       The CON to furnish to the Bank a suhary statemnt    Coeplied.
of the accounts mentioned on joint 4.02 (a) above
and such other pertinent informatfon related to the
sam accountls.
4.03               The Guarantor shall cause the facilities Included        Coeplied with delay. Before
In the project to be operated, mintaelnd  nd             1991 mntenance  as below
reired In accordance with sourd enginering,              minimu  requirements due to
technical, financial, and anistrative practices,   lack of funds  nd to low
water charges. See 3.08 (a).



- 39 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-lu)
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A: Staff [Iuts
(weeks)
Planned                              Actusl
Stag of Project Cycle
Headquarters Field Total       Headquarters Field    FMnal Total
Through Approisal                              KA          KA      KA          17.9        4.8           22.7
Approaisl Through
Bard Approval
Through Effectiveness                          KA          NA      MA         108.4       40.0          148.4
SLpervision                                     MA         MA      NA          92.2       44.6          136.8
TOTAL                                  MA         NA      NA         218.5       84.6          307.9
S         Sur a : nk B IS and Divisional Black Books.



- 40 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-lu)
Table 8s Uos of Bank Resources (Cont.)
B: WI3ssions
|I|                     Person/
Date       No. of      days        SpecIaLizations   Performance        Type of
Mission Date               (mo/yr)    Persons    in FieLd   Represented              Rating        Probl_ms    Comments
Preparation 1              03/77         2           10            a,c                  -               -
Preparation 2              06/78         2           14            *,c                  -               -
AppraisaL                  09/78          5         120         *,b,c,d,f               -               -
Post-appraisaL             02/79         4           80           a,b,c,f               -               -
Supervision 1              09/79          1           4              c                  2               -
Supervision 2              04/80          1          20              c                  2             N.T.
Supervision 3              10/80         3           21           a,b,c                 1
Supervision 4              10/81          1           8              c                  2               F
Supervision 5              09/82         2           20             *,c                 2              F,P
Supervision 6              05/83         1           20              c                  2             F,P
Supervision 7              12/83         1           22              c                  2             F,P
Supervision 8              06/84          1           7              c                  2            F,P,T
Supervision 9              01/85          1           5              a                  2               F
Supervision 10             03/85          1           5              c                 3                F
Supervision 11             11/85         2           24              c                 4                F
Supervision 12             05/86          1          10              c                  4               F
Supervision 13             10/86          1          10              c                  4               F
Supervision 14             04/87         2           14              c                 3                F
Supervision 15             01/88         1           10              b                 3                F
Supervision 16             06/89         2            6              a                  2               F
Supervision 17             08/90         4           12             *,c                2                F
Supervision 18             01/91         1            5              c                  2              0        FLoods
TOTAL                                   40          447
OTHER  PROJECT DATA
Borrower: Macional Financiere S.A.
Executive Agency:  SARM-CHA/Secretarfa de AgrIcuLtura y Recursos Hidrdulicos - ComfsIdn Macional del Ague.
Fiscal Year:  January1-December 31
Name of Currency (abbreviation): Mexican Pesos (MexS)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average:  (1978-79)                      USS1.00 * MEXS22.8
Intervening Year Average:  (1985-86)                    US$1.00 * MEXS375
Last Year Average:  (1991)                              USS1.00 * MEX$3 000
a a agriculturist; b - economist; c * engineer; d *financial analyst; * * deputy division chief; f * consuLtent
1 a problem free or minor problems; 2 * moderate problem ; 3 * major problaes; 4 * m_jor problems, objectives will
not be met.
F = Financial; N - managerial; T z Technical; P * PolitIcal; and 0 * other overall
/ Partial in conjuntion with other projects.
J Report not in fiLes.



- 41 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NZXICO
RIO FUZRT3/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-3m)
Table 9 : Studies
Purpose as Defined
at Appraisal                    Status      |        Impact of Study
The last study was        The salinity maps
1. SALINITY SURVEY        accomplished from          provided the means for
To quantify, quality  February to August of      an analysis and
and map the            1988.                     technical support for
Irrigation District                              actions in soil
soils according to                               reclamation component.
the current salinity
status.
The last study was        The ground water depth
2. WATER TABLE SURVEY    accomplished from           maps with water
To quantify and       February to August of      salinity concentration
qualify the water      1988.                     indication provided
table of the                                     guidance for the design
District refer to                                of drains and the
evaluations and                                  reclamation of saline
salinity                                         soil.
concentration.
The water table survey was done with only one water level reading and one
water sampling analysis at the moment that the auger hole was completed.
This was because of budgetary limitations on fixing more stable and lined
observations wells. Field test for infiltration rate and hydraulic
conductivity were not accomplished owing to the same budgetary restriction.






- 42 -
ANNEX I1
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RIO FUERTE/RIO sitNiAo                     GION PROJI
RIO   ~          (LAN1706-ME)
Table 1. CVLIVA2U AREPA AM) ?oIMJxf
SZNAo wnsu foscr
1930     1931    1982    19813    1934    1985    1936    1937    1931    1939    1990            1991       1/
AREA
COTTON              11439   11637    2168    5319   10993    4505          493    3342    9311    3153    2505         1124    2261
RICH                12126   11661    *641   12t31    17737   37850    7905            0        0    9957       125    3460    4514
BEAN               25)01   21341   27912    7631    17333    4660   21162   48371   47103   13548   29317   29332   25766
CORN               15970   37617   41766   46547   33500   36737   42225   51t16   12299   33369   45690   42645   42401
POTATO               651       637     918    1487    2164        1514    1705    2039    2703    2201    1974    1919    2054
WHEAT               3720    12214   25212   23414   51934   33414   86969   36524   32871   32978   75459   54296   70911
SOYBEAN            46606   36010   33331   36124   39249   51222   55995   75339   37964   92853   32688   65321   79952
TOMATO              2890    3300    4300    7600   12000    3900    9300   10900   14600   13100   I 1300   12400   12533
TOTAL              112764  134917  149241  146523  134960  223171  225759  228312  157351  260664  249623  210567  240392
YIELD
COTION             2.409    1.937    2.31t   2.423    1.737    1.353    2.62t   2.356    2.414    2.355    1,368    1.759    1.114
RICE               4.277    3.638    2.570    4.01S    4.236    4.615    4.117    0.000    0.000    4.269    3.599    3.293    2.592
BEAN               0.955    1.113    1.489    1.631    1.168    1.450    1.430    1.179    1.055    1.074    1.7U2    1.456    1.431
CORN               2.267    2.270    2.495    2.550    2.501    3.222    2.914    2.691    2.394    2.309    3.391    4.308    3.507
POTATO            20.177   23.321   23103   20.464   22.Y53   22.451   27.701   24.642   21.056   19.607   23.379   17.611  22.946
I4.PHT             4.063    3.404    4509    3951    4.453    4.114    3  C    4./23    ..4Ii    4.545    4.545    3.75g    4.235
SOYBEAN            l.151    !.662    1 :66    1.605    2.096    i 142    2.072    1.931    2.235    2.243    1.789    2.010    2.015
TOMATO            17.933   19.516   24.909   21.247   18.728   17.470   19.994   19.575   20.570  21.065   13.116   17.710   19.125
TOTAL              6.729    6.552    7.332    7.236    7.234    7.165    3.043    7.136    6.732    6.871    7.343    6.483    7.215
PRODUCllON TONS
COTTON            2755)   23128    5025   14271   19646    8346           1309    9050   24369    7424    3426        1977    4102
RICE              51163   42420   22204   51559   76025  174634   32545               0       0   42510       450   11394   11702
BEAN              24630   23743   41572   12447   20241    6755   31313   57030   49697   19912   52356   42716   37043
CORN              36202   15399  104215  111691    33793  113370  123053  133914   29442  109174  155242  233721  14t707
POTATO            13136   11993   21201   30430   49454   35563   47230   51477   56915   43156   46150   35023   47131
WHEAT             35426   41579  113672  112257  231493  343172  293307  172513  145132  377103  342939  204046  303841
SOYBEAN           81624   59866   41524   57983   82216  109711   116049  145446   Y6747  2060K0  147939  231264  161123
TOMATO            51825   74160  107110  161475  224733  155415  135940  213370  300320  236650  22260  219600  239693
TOTAL            322264  362213  463530  559112  737638  957036  8UY2%   4117801  692623  1042014 971361  329746  953349
1/ Annual projection for years 1992-2005



P!ROJ8CT COMPLEXION REPORT
MICXIC
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN  1706-ME)
TabI. 2. CU.ttAlUw  ARJ  AFM PRODuc21N
u   ownumaftQ
1930    1981      1932    1933    194        1935    1936    1937    1933    1939    1990    1991            1/
AREA               11439   10773       1943     6146    9422    3197        347    2506    3935    2149         1729     1024    1677
COTrON              12126    10622    6637    11171    11706   2135S        2234        0         0    6107        35    2335    2396
RICE                25S01    19994   24231       3453    14504    3437    14135   27323   43162    10133    16151    19300    15016
DE"N                15970   34869   36761    46148   26937   25572   32752   33134    11897   24235   29343   34446   29099
TORN              651      5S6      781      1432    1610      950      1223     1312    2442      1241      1102    1301      1209
WHEAT                *720    11103    19621    17633   23366   40057   43350    27725   20642   34859   33677   26515   32026
SOYBEAN             46606   32324   30663    27099   23334   25113   24500   36234   25613   39343   36244   32273   36204
TOMATO               2390     3427    3497    6072    7775    4523          5611     5915    11513    6135       5422    6509    6076
TOTAL              112764   124203   124203   124203  124203  124203  124203   124203  124203   124203  124203  124203   124203
COTrON             2.831    0.315    2.302    1.771    1.695    2.404    2.303    2.086    2.337    1.599    1.359    1.500    1.652
RICE               4.277    3.874    2.63t    4.061    3.699    3.t68    4.117    0.000    0.000    3.506    3.S99    3.220    2.721
BEAN               1.234    1.079    1.382    1.474    1.146    1.353    1.107    1.057    1.120    1.1S4    1.613    1.322    1.320
CORN               1.530    1.332    2.528    2.607    1.373    2.974    2.770    2.U49    1.525    2.874    3.377    4.043    3.433
POTATO            17.000   15.300   22.552   20.351   23.438   16.100   26.331  24.337   20.533   19.504   22.459   16.500   23.151
WHEAT              4.700    3.750    4.391    4.020    4.494    4.100    3.400    4.474    4.660    4.640    4.620    3.332    4.370
SOYBEAN            1.956    1.873    1.260  !.654    2.046    2063    2.041    1.91S    2.2!:4         . 178    i.729    1.992    2.000
TOMATO            16.500   15.600   23.9l6   20.668   190t3   16.-94   17651  1.521   :94^4   i6.929   17.477   1) 50   17.39
TOTAL              6.254    5.390    7.621    7.076    7.122    6.208    7.596    6.906    6.479    6.539    7.092    5.n5    7.057
PRODUCTION TONS
COTTON             32334     3395     4471    10334    15970    7636   , 973        5223   20331    3437    3214         1535    2772
RICE               51263   41151    17641    45364   43301   32600         9404        0        0   21411        126    7520    7332
BEAN               31833    21572   33493    12456    16621    4666    15647   23335   43341    11997   26057   26135    19323
CORN               24434   46445   92925   120296   37123    76045   90722   94392    13143   69661  100769  139261   99339
POTATO             11067     3971    17773    29153   37729    15291   32376   31920   50136   24200   24750   21467   27930
WHEAT             40934    41635    S6149   71086  129725   164232   147391   79303   96191  161748  155539  101604   139952
SOYBEAN           91161   61479   38642    44322   47733   51796    49994   69592   56706   S5685   62666   64303   72393
TOMATO            47635   53461   33642   125433   14S373   75957   99045   1095S3  223355   103249   94753   101217  103206
331417  273108  374736  459549  476633  473275  446052  412904  514252  431339  467930  463093  473901
1/ Annual projection for years 1992-2005



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 3.1. CuLmAm  AREA Amu   fooxuNo H
SINARIG Win P3OJRcT
Rio FumP    SERoJcr
I| AREA               1930    19t1    1932    1983    19S4         19S5    1936    1937    1983        1989    1990    1991        1/
COTTON                 9633    3623      1730    4426    9121    3653         313    2634    6550    2717    2036    1055    1953
RICH                      0    6303    3533    6526    3230   19273             0        0        0    7172         0     1945    3039
BEAN                  23177   18326   19tl3    6422   13729    4043    12342   24904   31855    10733   16032   16493   14463
CORN                  10350   13257   31224   31573   24595   23750   31626   34302    9284   23313   34607   33016   32145
PaOATO                  591      424      623      950     1341      923     1124    1352    1774       1359    Ills    1052    1175
WHEAT                  6141    6294   10669    4544   14025   27969   23040   12691    7627   26545   25430   14343   22123
SOYBEAN               33001    19742   13833   12263   13446   13233   12805   25573   11540   30945   26583   17354   25124
TOMATO                 2300    1600    2300    3100    5300    3500    4500    5100    7000    5500    4300    4000    4700
TarAL                 35193   90069   33790   69304   39787  106359   90750  107096   75630  113334  110253   39753  104722
COTTON                2330    2572    2171       2639    1806    1724    2524    2472    2557    2476           1269    1776    1340
RICE                     0    '437    747I    3977    473!    4440             0        0        0    4240         0    3350    2530                                1
BEAN                   9.-'    "J,6&    :45.    1564      1174    1471      1746    1294    1024        994     1754    1360      1369                              T.-
CORN                  'IA      2x     .6tt    27J32    49          i167    2397    3202    2676    3063         3723    44X2    3753
POTATO              20300   Jv600   23300   ?05A   26200   27000   29200   26300   20300    19240   22900   13600   25000
WHEAT                 3793    30i9    4057    3537    4343    4142    3511    4203    3605    4342    4397    3552    4097
SOYBEAN               1667    1439    1272    1510    2132    2112    2145           1955    2333      2329    1916    2096    2114
TOMATO               13300   24900   27700   21750   20660   15110   15400   17500   13800   14700   15200   10300   16000
TarAL                6273    7466    3201       7235    7933    7396    7178    7116    6419    6424    6395    5752    7039
PRODUCTION TONS
CoTTON               22445   22173    3756   11630   16473    6293            790    6635   16743    6727    2647         1874    3594
RICE                      0   21663    3742   25954   34379   35594             0        0        0   30409         0    6516    7639
BEAN                 21392   20106   23776    10172   16113    5955   21549   32226   32620   10718   23203   22430   19300
CORN                 27603   72931   33805   36257   71522  100160  100321  111436   24344   38393  123342  147973  120301
POTATO               12116    3734   14327   19475   35134   24921   32321   35553   36012   26147   25534   19567   29375
WHEAT                23305   19379   43234   16299   60911   115343   93443   53293   27495  115258  112036   50946   90633
SOYBEAN              55013   29396   24026   13517   2367   33519   27467   49995   27553   72071    50933   37422   53112
TOMATO               42090   39340   63710   67425  109493   52335   69300   39250  131600   80350   65360   43200   75200
TOTAL               203964  234229  270926  255730  373201  430173  351197  373393  296377  430530  413559  329933  400203
1/ Annual projection for years 1992-2005



PROJBCT COMPLETION REPORT
RIO FUERTS/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Tb  3.2. CULTWAIU  AM  AND P.OIWCTON
SRo 7L13 a3-F3ourr
1930    19I      1912    1933    1914       19s5    196    1937    19U         1939    1990    1991       Il
AREA
C0rTON                        9633  *156    1660    5402    2634    2926            294    2135    7378    2033    1612    1001    15I9
RICE                             0    5942    3395    7965    709   15442             0        0        0    5368         0    It46    2472
BEAN                         23177   17307   19015    7U33    13027    3242   115t6   19211   35333    3070   12427   15654   11766
C(ORN                        10350   26727   29959   33534   23337   23029   29639   27684   10453   21564   26741   31337   26150
POTATO                         591      401     593      1159    1272      739    loss    1075    199        1017      162      99"      956
WHEAT                         6141    5953   10237    5546   13307   22403   26323   100tt   t591   19366   19639   13614   17"7
SOYBEAN                     33001   13673   13123    14967   12751   14609   12021   20343   12999   23159   20541   16946   20439
T7ATO                         2300    1513    2207    3783    5029    2303    4224    4057    7335    4116    3323    3797    3124
TOTAL                        85193   35193   35193   35193   35193   35193   35193   35193   35193   35193   35193   35193   35193
YIED                        2131      315    2203    1771    1695    2404    2303    2036    2337    1599    1859    1500    1652
COTTON                       427m    3374    2631    4061    3390    3552    4117             0        0    3392    3599    3220    2721
RKIE                        t134    1039    1346    !4S7    1146    1361    1101    1057    1320    l034    1533    1273    1230
BEAN                         15?0    1332    26t1    271i        1313    3067    1 1    3095    1525  1913          3512    4119    3540
CORN                        17000   15300   23140   205C0   2506    16100   2740    2i140   26340   19492   22420   16500   24100
POTATO                       4700    3750    4005    4020    4494    4100    3400    4121    4660    4640    4620    3t32    4370
SOYBEAN                      19t6    1377    1260    1654    2039    2023    2049    191t    2244    2197    1729    2010    2025
TOMIATO                     16500   15600   25t20   2IG1O   201 t    15745   15930   17660   13700   1542C    15320   12300   16460
TaTAL                        6254    5335    7137    7155    7424    6044    7471    6335    6366    6364    6393    5594    7013
PCODUCFO    NTONS         27271    2569    3656    9567   14669    7034          t24    44S4   17243    3251    2996        1502    2625
CiCT                           O   230%      3955   32345   26475   S4343           0        0       0   1t207         0    S944    6727
BEAN                      23600   1I501   25593   11379   14923    4414   12326   20940   40139    9555   19731   19922   150S3
CORN                       15836   35601   30308  104773   32153   70629   34645   35633   15948   64423   93909  129076   92567
POTATO                     10047    6136   13332   23763   31336   11903   28975   27033   40646   19325   19316   16475   23037
WHEAT                     23263   22325   40994   22294   59303   91152   39493   41575   40036   92179   90961   52167   73649
SOYBEAN                   64550   34975   22Y35   24755   26014   29553   24636   39013   2916Y   50g71   35515   34065   41330
TOMATO                    37950   23609   56930   79679  101522   44149   67507   71646  147452   63472   52564   46693   62935
TOTAL                    213117  166t12  253159  303559  307456  3143U3  30t910  290353  330611  3217t7  314993  305349  322973
1/ Annual projection for years 1992-2005



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 4.1. CLnVATD AU  AND PROMuCTIt4
SCNA o WITH PRoJEcr
Rio SIimatim~-PRojecr
19s0     9291    1932    1983    1934    19n3       1936    1937    1931    1939    1990    199           I
AREA
CUOTON                I306    3014      433    1463   2Im          352      It5    li53    3261       436     429       69      303
RICE                 12126    5358    5203    6305    9507   13572    7905            0        0    2735       125    ISis    2475
BEAN                  2624    2525    3094    2209    3604        612    3320   23467   15243    7763   13305   12239   11303
CORN                  5620    9360   10542   14974    3905    7937   10599   17014    3015   10056   11033    9629   10256
POTATO                  60     213      295      537      323     661      532      737      929     342      359      937      379
WHEAT                 2579    5920   24543   23370   37959   55445   53929   23343   25244   56433   4n79   39953   43733
SOYBEAN              13605   16261   29443   23361   25303   32990   43190   49766   26424   60913   56105   47467   54823
TOMATO                 590    2200    2000    4500    6700    5400    4300    53O0    7600    7600    7500    3400    7833
TOTAL                39010   44343   60453   76719   95173  122519  135009  121735   31721  146330  139375  120309  135670
XYELD                2X31      315    2397    1771    1695    2404    2303    2036    2337    1599    159    1500    1652
RICE                 4277    3174    2633    4061    4323    4797    4117             0       0    4345    35s        3220    2721
BEAN                 1234    1446    1581       2s33    1146    2303    1107    1057    1120    1134    s3s    I2 50    2526
CORJN                 2530    2332    1936    2166    1378    2230    2098    1615    1525    2066    2332    3722    2721
POTATO              17000   15300   21630   20400   17400   16100   24300   21600   22500   20200   24000   16500   20200
WHEAT                4700    3750    4340    4020    4494    4100    3400    5000    4660    4640    4620    3332    4370
SOYBEAN               1956     3n3     2260    1654    2073    2253    2051    1913    2240    2200    1729    2977    2970
TOMATO               16500   15600   21700   20900   17200   19000   24300   22400   22200   20500   22000   21000   21000
TOTAL                6254    5436    7310    7107    6225    6513    3035    6335    7073    7092    7626    6665    7020
PRODUCIION TONS
COtTON               5223      949    1269    2591    3173    2043         519    2426    7622       697      779      204      509
RICE                51363   20757   23462   25605   41146   89090   32545             0        0   12202      450    43n      4013
ReAN                 3233    3637   12797    2274    4230         300    9764   24305   17078    9294   24249   2023    17243
CORN                  599   12463   20409   32434   12271   13210   22237   27473    4593   20776   26400   35743   27907
POaATO                1020    3259    6331   10955   24320   10642   14409   15929   20903   17003   20626   15461   17756
WHEAT               12121   22200   70333   95957  170533  227325  200359  119215  227637  261349  230903  253200  223204
SOYBEAN            .26611   30470   24493   39466   53619   7119Z   38j23   95451   59290  134009   97006   93342  103011
9735   34320   43400   94050  115240  102600  116640  224220  163720  255300  157500  276400  164493
TOTAkL            E213300  122059  192604  303332  414437  !kiAg  1!S054  409403  395746  611434  557302  499323  553242
1/ Annual projection for years 1992-2005



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Tsbk 4.2. CULTIVAm AREA Am  PRO0JflO
ScIDuR1o WinOUr PROJWCr
RIO SINALOA SW-PROJECT
1980    1931      1932     1933     1984    1983    1936    1937        1933     1939    1990    1991       1/
AREA
CoIlN                      1306    2622       123      744      767      271       53      371     1)57      116      117       22       39
RICE                      12126    4661    3293    3206    3397    5913    2284              0        0      740       35      489      424
BEAN                      2624    2133    5223         615     1477      195    2543    7517    7279    2063    3724    4146    3250
CORlN                     5620    3142    6302    7614    3650    2543    3063    5450             1439    2672    3102    3109    2949
POTATO                       60      135      190      273      337      210      163      236      443      224      240      303      253
WHEAT                     2579    5149    9384   12137    15559   17654   17027    7637    12050   14993   13939   12901    14023
SOYBEAN                  13605    14150   12545    12133    10576   10504   12479   15941   12614   16133   15703    15327   15765
TOMATO                      590     1914    1290    2288    2746        1719    1387    135S    3623    2019    2099    2712    2252
TOTAL                    39010   39010   39010   39010   39010   39010   39010   39010   39010   39010   39010   39010   39010
YIED                    2331       315    2884      1771     1695    2404    2803    2086    2337         1599    1259      1500     1652
COTrON                   4277    3374    2638    4061         4318    4693    4117          0        0    4331    3599    3220    2721
RBEN                     1234      1404     1512    1752      1146    1293      1107    1057      1120    1184    1699       1511    1468
CORtN                    1530      1332    1255    2039       1378    2130      1934    1598      1525    1959    2212    3276    2483
POtATO                  17000   15300   20104   in1.0o  173G    1610    23240   i0630   21400   19560   22600   16500   19560                                         2
WHEAT                    4700    375')    4312    4020    4494    4100    340             44u    466C    1S40    4620    3832    4370
sOYBEAN                  !955.     3m       1260    1654    205i    2i11    2037         9!?    213    2151    1729          1973     1967
AlUATO                  lei00    160    20660D  20C20   17?(E  tl530  2it40   20420   21060   19/00   20100   20100   20100
TOTAL                    6254    5431    104;    6380    6113    1417    767i    6537    6736    6391    7302    6439    6790
PRODUCllON TONS
COrTON                   5113       326      315    1317      1301      652      150      774    3638       135      212       33      146
RICE                    51363    18055    363      13019   16326   27751        9404        0        0    3205       126     1575     1154
BEAN                     3238    3071    7394        1077     1693      252    2121    7945       3152    2443    6326    6263    4770
CORN                      599   10345   12617   15523         5030    5417    6077    3709    2195         5233    6360   10125    7322
POTATO                   1020    2835    3941    5385         5343    3333    3901    4882    9490    4376    5434    4992    4944
WHEAT                   12121    19310   45155   48792   69921   72330   57892   37729   56155   69563   64621   49437   61304
SOYBEAN                 26611   26504    15307   20063   21719   22243   25358   30575   27533   34314   27151   30233   31013
TOMATO                   9735   29352   26661   45309   46851   31203   31539   37937   76404   39778   42194   54520   45271
TOTAL                  118300  111297  121576  150990  169123  163392  137143  122551  133572  159602  152937  157243  255923
1/ Annual projection for years 1992-2005



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Table 5. PROJECT RESULTS, INCRIMENTAL BENEFITS
INVESTMEN  AND PROJECr COSTS
(IN MILLIONS OP 1980 ME1MCAN PESOS)
WrrH PRoJEcT vs. WiTHOUr PROJECT
RIO FUERTE SuL-PRoJEcr
3/6/1993            Year            0           1          2           3           4           5           6           7           a          9          10          11       12-25
INCRIMENTAL BENEFnTS
MARGIN                            0      97884      151970      358963      782404    1188063    2411216    5281502    9992831   38785396   31965517   15673830   20972219
INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENTS R SINALOA    145100         433600      740100      980600    1383700    1251800    1677800    2723600    2374600    7122900   19604300                 0           0
TECHNICAL ASST.                    0           0           0     116458       84658       51140       14380    4268216      305654      357280      211580           0           0
SUB TOTAL
OPERATION COSTS AND
MAINTENANCE
0      12491       20542       27026       73155     245113      206868      271595      762728      173335    1984486       207524      207524
CASH FLOW                  -145100    -348207    -60672    -765121    -759109    -359990            512168    1018091    6549849   31131881   10165150   15466306   20764695
'0



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Tabb 6. PROJWEr RESLT, INCREffAL BENEFiTS
INVESTM01111 AND PROJECT COsM
(IN p.LUONS OF 1980 MEXICAN PESa)
WrIH PROJECoI  VS. WlIOUT PRoJEcr
Rio SINALOA SusB-PbojEr
Year             0            1            2            3           4             5           6            7            a            9           10           11
1/16/ 1993------------
INCRIMENTAL BENEFnS            15        6292       -60306      1295021      3048148      3464461      6950327      5194497    36520516   147398255    77596007    22250017    468
MARGIN
INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENTS R SINALOA  262800          835900       766700      1306100      1540400      1278600      1372400      3027100      3827200      5666400    19771300    13800000
TECHNICAL ASST.                  0            0            0       116458        84658        51140        14380     4268216       305654       357280       211580      1542800
SUB TOTAL
OPERATION COS! AND
MAIfNTENANCE
0       12491        20542        27026        73155       245113       206868       271595       762728      1733350      1984489      1037616     10
CASH FLOW                 -262785      -842099     -847548       -154563      134935      1889608      5356679    -2372414    31624934   139641224    55628638          5869601    457
Ln
0



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Tabl 7. CASH FLOW IN EcMIC PRIU Mz MIUON
1. RIO FUERTE                                 i.    n..                     is.          *         i            u 
-.
sno       191       fm         1983      195u       1915       It        197       lm         19"       sw 199     ll        l"
1. CASH FLOW
AT CURRENT PRICES                     2 :        4        409  *265            -75        -360  51     2       1013      6ss0      31132     10165      15466    2064
11. INFLATION RATE                       1.26       1.28      1.59       2.02      1.65       1.53      1.16      2.2        2.14        1.2       1J     d  1.2
m. CASH FLOW IN
CONSTANT PRICES (1980)               .145       -276      .378       M2         141        -42        33        41        112       250         63        6          n
............ ON,,,,,,,,,,,,, ........................ a......... ---        -     --......
EER-                                               3.1%
n. RIO SINALOA                         ...                             ... . .    .     ... ...................................
1930      1911      191        1          1914      11         1916       981       9         1939       190o      199l       199
........ ...... ......__ ...._ ._ ......_ ....._._. ._....  ...... ...... ...... ...... ....... 
1. CASH FLOW                             f                                                                                                                                                    I
AT CURRENT PRICFi                   -O63       -941       -347       -154      1350       Iwo       5357      -2372     31625    139641      5562        s0       45767 1n
11. INFLATION RATE                       1.26       1.23      139        2.02      1.65       152       1.16       2.32      2.14        1.2       1.3        1.2                             1
m. CASH FLOW IN
CONSTANT PRICES (19M                 -263       46I       .525        40        251       221        3917       -94       543       1120       372        30        19
... ..................-.                    ..  M ....                    =     =............................ ....
EER-                                               S.4s
n. RIO FUERTEJRIO SINALOA COMBINED
w--  --                       su--anS 5=............s.m   w=us..            ..... ................. ........
me        1921       192       1m3        mu        1945       19s 6     191        11        199        199       1l         1z
1. CASH FLOW                            aN    .......... won .....                   t -----.....  -..... .           ... i....... ans              .    ..       ..
AT CURRENT PRICES
-404     -1190     -146        .919       591       2S30      5369      -354      38175    170713      65793      21336     6531
II. INFLATION RATE                       1.26      1.21       1.59      2.02       1.65      lIJ        I.36      2.32      2.14        1.2        1.3       1.2
m. CASH FLOW IN
CONSTANT PRCES (1910)                .0        -944      -9         -353       110        179       435        -54       655       136        440        l10       342
...j.....                                           ......... .
EElt-                                              .*



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Tabb *. CASH FLoW IN ECOaxC hCt Ni  MIUJe"4
1973 o 1974  1975- 1976- 1977... 1978   1979  1980  1981. 1982 1983  1984. 1985  1986  1987 : 198:   1989  1990  1991  1992
I. RIO SINALOA n SUBPROIBCr
CASH FLOW IN CURRENl MRICES I/                                              -263  -842  -847  -154  1350  1890  5357 -2372 31625 139641 55628  5870 45767
INFLATlON RATE                                                              1.26   1.28   1.59  2.02   1.65   1.58   1.86   2.32   2.14   1.2   1.3   1.2
CASH FLOW IN CONTANT I9  PRICES                                             -263  -668  -525   -60   251   221   397   -94   543   1120   372    30   235
H. RIO SINALOA I PROIECT
CASH FLOW IN CONSTANT 1950 PRICES
-157   -97  -105  -121  -414   -663   -761  -476    51   145   276   305   326   340   350   357    362   365   367   369
HLH.YDROPOWER PLANT
IN CONSTANT M910 PRICES                                                                                     -1093 -1093    83   277    312   309   524   614
TOTAL EVALUATION OF
CASH FLOW
-157   -97  -105  -121  -414   -663   -761  -739  -617  -380   216   556  -546  -356   338  1176   1794  1046   922  1218
I/ Up to 1991 cumm  pdw  wo  we. SunIs  19, 1991 comia pncA we ue.
a-l



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
TECHNICAL DATA






PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
MEXIC
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN  1706-NE)
Able 1: Main Mtetorloaleal Characteristl_ues
S t a t I * n e
uesave                 |           Sinaloa de Leyva           |acurst,
Precipitation:
Main                         472.7 _ (1975)                              679.8 on                               *56.6 -
eaxIm                        912.7 _ (1968)                         1,124.4 _ (1984)                        1,1U.2 _ (1984)
linim                        231.1 _ (1969)                          392.9 on (1986)                         702.5 m  (198)
lmperature:
Main                              24.7 C                                 24.4 C                                  24.6 C
Maxim               45.0 C (Sept. 1978-79 Aug. 1981)                46.0 C (May. 1939)                  44.0 C (Jan. 1953/198)
Minim                       -1.0 C (Jan. 1971)                     1.0 C (Jan. 1987/o8)                     1.0 C (Jan. 1988)
Evaporation:
Main                        2,558.6 m  (1982)                       2,077.5 _ (1988)                           1,844.6 mm
"axli                           2,X25.6 ma                              1,939.1 -                          2,005.6 V  (1987)
Minim                       2,001.8 on (1983)                       1,674.7 m (1905)                        1,670.9 pm (1983)
Nurri enas:
9 October   1981  lNorm"
30 September 1962 "Paul"
3 December 1986 "Paine"



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUBRTS/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Tolle 2:  Waler BalanceE Puerte Didincl
uster Waance
_     ~~                -       -  (I  I  l,    - _   I~                                        -
~    1980 (161 101.1962 1ge   196'.            I 1965196 19          Ins96 119691990199
A.    Avallability
Met outflow  from  liguel  idaigo to fuerte District         3,093.0  3,391  3,521   4,094   2,954  3,724  4,318  3,025  4.239  2,334  3,911  3,68o  3,316
River and canal conveyaree and operation losses 30n
-928.0  1,614 -1,424 -1,757 -1,379  -1,653 -1,955  -1,8o2 -2,023 -1,233 -1,767 -1,679 -1,397
2,165.0  1.717  2.097  2,337   1,575   1,971   2,363   1,943  2,216  1,101  2,214  2,001   1,919                     'J
Return flow from Cmayeca-Porvenir          AO%                 *80.0      52    +16      .17      *8      .4      .5     .23    *21    .42    *13    +13          M11
Return flow from Guxchiera                 80o                 +14.4                .       .       .       .-      -           -               -           -.      -
110 wells                                   0 S150.0    6160    .28 O                      46      *7      45      .7    444      .79   *122    .42 *  . 7    .30
Purping water from Sinslos river           80o                 .64.0        .-                                                                      -       -       -
Total Availability                                           2,473.0  1,929  2,141   2,400  1,590   1,980  2,375   2,010  2,316  1,265  2,269  2,091   1,960
I   .   itelr tr
Irrigation fuerte District units 2 ad 3                      1,260.0  1,178  1,303   1,456        898  1,065   1,281   1,052   1,281    637  1,164   1,031   1,044
Irrigation fuerte District units 1, 4 and 5                    982.0    610    685        771     521    716    892       773    834    439    888    851         704
Leaching requirents (anrual)                                     80.0       2       8      17      15      20      13       2       6       1       7       3      17
Domestic and Industrial  use                                    138.0     139    145      156     156     179    189      183    195    188    210    206         195
Total Reireaments                                            2,460.0   1,929  2,141   2,400   1,590   1,980  Z,325 .,010  2.316  1,265  2,269  2,091   1,960



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-HE)
Table 3: RiO Sinaloa Reservoir Balance
Agricultural Year
A. Availability                                  SA         o-1-82 U    2-83  1  a3-84  1  84-85         85-86       816-87      1 7-8a      8-89       89-90      90-91
Volume of water reservoir " from                          +730.3    1,034.7   2,119.9   2,097.0    1,567.7    1,255.5            784.3    1,477.2    1,368.9   1,189.8
previus year
Evaporation end seepage losses                    -44       -66.9       76.3        85.7       78.0        65.8       63.0        41.4       64.1        58.5       72.9
Spill way discharge                              -200         -.0         .0          .0          .0         .0          .0         .0          .0         .0         .0
Rtegulated outftow                                        *663.4       958.4    2,034.2    2,019.0    1,501.9    1,195.5         742.9   1,413.1    1,310.4   1,116.9
Conveyance and operational losses
-326     -457.5      471.8       416.8       8as.1      890.6       726.5      274.4       581.8      574.6      790.3
Uater purped from well                           +230     +180.7        56.1        28.0        18.3       16.1        15.6       12.0        10.3          .0       8.3
Inflow Becurtao Reservoir                     t1,330  #1,067.5    2,054.1    1,048.3    1,261.1    1,444.4    1,112.8    1,440.2    1,389.4    1,385.9   2,494.8
lotel Availability                                      +1.454.1    2,596.8    Z,693.7   2,413.3   2,071.8    1,597.4    1,920.7   2,231.0    2,121.7   2,829.7
0.                    9equhirmmnts
Area up-stream leyve diverslon
(5,000ha)                                        43.5        5.0         5.8        10.5       12.2        13.8       15.8        15.1       15.7        14.2       12.5
Sinaloa Area I + 11                           912.2 t   " 407.0    " 461.5    " 576.6         8 823.7    v 788.7   " 786.5    " 417.6       8 835.6    " 906.9   "759.3
Domestic and industrial                          34.3         7.4        9.6         9.6        9.7        10.8        10.8       10.8       10.8        10.8       30.9
lotot Requirements       ,                      990.0      419.4       476.9       596.7      845.6       813.3      813.1       443.5      862.1       931.9     802.7
_   _         _       _---__ .                                                                                                                 .=
ws Not evallabily in the SAR.
&: including leadlng requierements.
v: Excluding leading requirements.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPQRT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Tahle 4: CvLerIl lmielion EfficIencY 1/
(Conveyance and Distribution)
Oct.     Nov.    Dec.    Jan.        Feb.      Mar.    April    May        June     July      August  Sept.    Total
Rio Fucrie                                                                                                                                         Lf
Overall Efficiency  51.00    51.35    57.85    61.00    56.45    62.15    57.95    54.90    58.95    56.60    61.15   59.70    57.65
from 1979 to 1991
Rio Sinaloa
herall Efficiency   56.30    56.45    62.01    63.49    63.24    65.76    60.21    55.89    56.01    60.2         60.65   59.51    59.97
from    1979   to   1990                                          j         _______________
1/ Excludes on-farm application efficiency.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
Graph 1. Rio FuERTEIRIO SINALOA - CROP AREA
300000                                                              -
250000 -                          -                         __   .           _
200000 -                                      _______
X 150000
100000
50000                                                                                       Go
0
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12
Project Year



- 59-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RIO FUERTE/RIO SINALOA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1706-ME)
-Grah 2. Rio Fuerte
Area Cred bv Year
Graph 2 - Rio Fuerte - Crop Area
120000 ._.
100000
,0OOO-                       -                   _    a  m -
80000                                                         -     - _
e  000^   - =-                 -   -   -   -   -   -   - -_
60000       =                                     ==
l~~~~~ _    -         _     _-        
4000*   -  -   --  -   E   - -  -   -                           -   -
40000                                             -                    
20000                                      -            -   -   - _
0                          -  _  _           - _ _  _             -     
Project Year
Graph 3 - Rio Sinaloa - Crop Area
160000
140000   _ _
_______         __          --                  e    -
120000                                   3           -          =e   - -
100000                                   =    =                  = -
.                           3~~~~               ~ -  _   =-    =
80000 _=__3 _n -  
-  -    -    _    e          a-  --  e     -
40000  ____=_=_ =    =    =    =    =    =    =    =
20000                   -  -  3  =  =  =  =  -  _
O   |                     .-  - r- -       -    ---~~ -
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   1 1   1 2   1 3
-    -      -    -Po    Y



