5I
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1706 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Rio Fucrte and Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 30, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1706 ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1979,     between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Ban& has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to ninety-two million dollars
($92,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Gi:arantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modification thereof set forth in Sec-
tion 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter call Ad the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the sevLzal terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01..The Guarantor shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, acting by its Secre-
taria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidrafilicos, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering,
agricultural, economic, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual
arrangements with the Borrower referred to in Section 3.01 of
the Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of
such arrangements.
Section 3.03. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall: (a) at the Bank's request,
furnish to the Bank the plans, specifications, contract documents
and work schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request;
(b) (i) maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including its cost), the
results achieved by the Project, and the extent to which the
investment, operation and maintenance costs of the facilities
provided under the Project have been recovered as required by the
provisions of this Agreement, to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds


﻿-3-
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds; and
(c) promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than one year after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor and
the Bank, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and benefits
and on the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Guarantor to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall continue to take such
measures as shall be necessary or advisable to ensure that the
beneficiaries of the Project will be provided with such short-,
medium- and long-term credit, as and when required, to utilize
adequately the facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Guarantor shall charge and collect
such water charges, on the basis of the ability of water users to
pay and the need to maintain an incentive for them to make best
use of the land and water available to them, as shall be necessary
to recover all the operation and maintenance costs of the irri-
gation facilities included in the Project and as much as practi-
cable of their investment cost.
(b) The Guarantor shall: (i) not later than December 1,
1984, carry out a socio-economic study in the area of the Project
A I


﻿F.-II
to determine, inter alia, the ability of water users to pay
for the cost of irrigation; and (ii) periodically, review such
study with a view to revising such charges, if appropriate.
(c) The Guarantor shall, promptly after each of the studies
referred to in paragraph (b) hereof is completed, afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on its conclusions and
recommendations.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any governmental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such
lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ips> facto, and
at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guar-
antor, in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall
make express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if
for any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure thp principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other governmental assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political subdivi-
sions or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any agency


﻿--5 -
or instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political sub-
division of the Guarantor and shall include any institution
or organization which is owned or controlled directly or
indirectly by the Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the
Guarantor or the operations of which are conducted primarily in
the interest of or for account of the Guarantor or any political
subdivision of the Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Guarantor responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof;
(b) annually, furnish to the Bank a summary statement of
such accounts; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other pertinent information
concerning such accounts as the Bank shall reasonably request from
time to time.
Section 4.03. The Guarantor shall cause the facilities
included in the Project to be operated, maintained and repaired
in accordance with sound engineering, technical, financial and
administrative practices.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor
Section 5.01. Nacional Financiera, S.A. is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The Guarantor agrees that all notices and
requests given or made to the Borrower shall be deemed to have
been given or made also to the Guarantor.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Jesus Silva-Herzog
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicolfs Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to provide irrigation faci-
lities and technical assistance benefitting approximately 120,000
hectares in the Rio Fuerte Irrigation District and approximately
76,000 hectares in the Rio Sinaloa Irrigation District in the
north of the State of Sinaloa. The Project consists of:
Part A:   Rio Fuerte District
1.   Rehabilitation of: about 1.7 kilometers of lined main
irrigation canal, about 130 kilometers of unlined
main irrigation canals, about 600 kilometers of unlined
lateral irrigation canals and about 154 kilometers of
open drains.
2.   Construction of: about 375 kilometers of lined lateral
irrigation canals, about 171 kilometers of open drains,
and about 48 kilometers of roads.
3.   Reclamation of about 60,000 hectares of saline and
saline-sodic soils.
Part B:   Rio Sinaloa District
Construction of: about 16 kilometers of lined main irrigation
canals, about 313 kilometers of lined and about 280 kilometers
of unlined lateral irrigation canals, about 510 kilometers of
open drains, and about 170 kilometers of feeder roads.
Part C:
Land clearing and leveling.
Part D:
Installation of a telephone system, construction of buildings
and houses for supporting services, and acquisition and utiliza-
tion of equipment to operate and maintain the facilities included
in the Project.


﻿-8-
Part E:
Agricultural extension and research programs, and studies on
drainage and irrigation related matters within the Sinaloa River
and Fuerte River basins.
*              *               *
The Project is .expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿II
-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   In'ernational Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Guarantor shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Guarantor and
the Bank shall agree; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Guarantor shall proviae the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for civil works shall be grouped in packages
of not less than $2,000,000 equivalent.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
5*   Account shall be taken of the availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts for imported goods.


﻿- 10 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Mexico may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Mexico if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Guarantor and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Mexico equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Mexico.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%


﻿- 11 -
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes excee" 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
On-farm civil works, and certain minor civil works and
equipment items may be procured through competitive bidding
on the basis of local advertising or through negotiated contracts
on the basis of the Guarantor's ordinary procedures, provided,
however, that: (a) each contract for such minor civil works shall
not exceed $220,000 equivalent; and (b) the aggregate amount of
the contracts for such equipment shall not exceed $2,800,000
equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the purchase of goods
and equipment not covered by the provisions of Part C of this
Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Guarantor shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the tekt of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bi'dding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and .-hall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure- as the Bank shall reasonably request in
consultation with the Guarantor. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Guarantor shall, promptly after the
execution of each contract and prior to sending to the Bank
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect thereof, furnish to the Bank two conformed


﻿- 12
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award 'of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines.
or this, Schedule, promptly inform the Guarantor and state the
reasons for such determination.
r


