CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1706 ME
11
Loan Agreement
(Rio Fuerte and Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
Dated July 30, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1706 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called Lhe Bank)
and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions). Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 shall read as follows:
"The term 'Project' means the project for which the
Loan is granted, as described In Schedule 1 to the Guarantee
Agreement and as the description thereof shall be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Guarantor, the
Bank and the Borrower."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
'to ninety-two million dollars ($92,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to-be made) in respect


﻿-2 -
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as provided in Section 3.03 of the
Guarantee Agreement, procurement of the goods and civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1986
or such later date .as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall make contractual arrange-
ments with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing,
inter alia: (a) for the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds
of the Loan for the purpose of carrying out the Project; and
(b) for the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such
funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on
account of principal, interest    and other charges on the Loan.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
change or fail to enforce any provision of such arrangements.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien will
ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such pro-
perty; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Guarantor and the Borrower have entered into
the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement are legally binding upon the parties
thereto; and
(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or


﻿-4-
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Guarantor and
the Borrower to perform allof the respective covenank:s, agree-
ments and obligations of the Guarantor and the Borrower in the
Guarantee Agreement and the Loan Agreement contained, together
with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have
been duly and validly performed or given and no other such acts,
consents and approvals are required to be performed or given
for said purpose.
Section 5.03. The date October 30, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Addresses
Section 6.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Cat6lica 51
Mexico 1, D.F.
Mexico
Cable address:                    Telex:
NAFIN                            NAFIN 383-1775765
Mexico City                      Mexico City


﻿-5 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicolfs Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By /s/ Alfonso Garcia Macias
Authorized Representative
'V
V:  _________________________________i


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                    59,000,000      43%
(2) Equipment                      8,000,000       90%
(3) Incremental operational        7,500,000       50%
costs of agricultural
extension services,
and studies
(4) Unallocated                    17,500,000
TOTAL          92,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (i)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) amounts
retained for the guarantee of civil works contracts under the
Project.


﻿-7-
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank and the
Borrower are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If, after consultation with the Borrower, the Bank shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any
Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expen-'itures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's rea-
sonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
If


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Paymentý of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1984
through   January 1, 1996                    3,540,000
On July 1, 1996                                   3,500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-9-
Premiums on Prepayment.
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years.
before maturity                              1.40%
More than three yeal; but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.80%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.10%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                              6.95%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.90%


