DIT NUMBER 1597 MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Mopti Area Development Project)
between
REPUBLrC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1597 MLI
DEVELOPMIENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                /                     , 1985,
between REPUBLIC OF MALI (hWei4 ter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
as8sist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower expects to obtain from the Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique of the Republic of France (hereinafter
called CCCE): (i) a loan (hereinafter called the ODEM Loan) in
the amount of 58,000,000 French Francs, and (ii) a loan in the
amount of 4,200,000 French Francs; both loans, (hereinafter
collectively referred to as the CCCE Loans) to be on terms and
conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and CCCE;
(C) CCCE has made a loan to BNDA (as hereinafter defined)
in an amount of 5,500,000 French Francs on terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement dated October 16, 1984 between CCCE and
BNDA;
(D)  the Borrower also expects to obtain from the African
Development Fund (hereinafter called AfDF) a credit (hereinafter
called the AfDF Credit) in the amount of six million Units of
Accounts on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and AfDF;
(E) the Borrower further expects to obtain from the Kingdom
of the Netherlands, acting through its Directoraat Generaal voor
Internationale Samenwerking (hereinafter called DIGIS) a grant
(hereinafter called the DIGIS Grant) in the amount of one million
five hundred thousand Netherlands Guilders (Nfl. 1,500,000) on
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DIGIS;
(F) The Project will be carried out by the Borrower and by
ORM, ODEM, IER and BNDA (all as hereinafter defined) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ORM, ODEM, IER and BNDA, the
proceeds of the Credit, of the CCCE Loans, of the ADF Credit and
of the DIGIS Grant as hereinafter provided;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and ORM,
ODEM, IER and BNDA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLEK I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The'General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General. Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined), unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms and acronyms have the following meanings:
(a) "AP" means Association Pastorale, a voluntary livestock
producers organization or cooperative operating in the Project
Area;
(b)  "BNDA" means Banque Nationale pour le D6veloppement
Agricole, a Societ& d'Economie Mixte organized under Loi No.
81-08 of the Borrower, dated February 11, 1981 and operating
under Statutes approved by Decree No. 62/PG-RM of the Borrower,
dated March 25, 1981;
(c) "CFA Franc" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d) "DNAFLA" means Direction Nationale de l'Alphab6tisation
Fonctionnelle et de la Linguistique Appligu&e of the Borrower's
Ministry of Education;
(e) "DNGR" means the Direction Nationale du Genie Rural of
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(f)  "DNHE" means Direction Nationale de 1IHydraulique et de
I'Energie of the Borrower's Ministry of State responsible for
industrial developmert and tourism;


﻿-3-
(g) "FY" or "fiscal year" means the Borrower's or ORM's or
ODEM's fiscal year, depending on the context, which, in the case
of the "crrower and ODEM coincides with the calendar year and in
the case of ORM starts on July 1 and ends on June 30;
(h) "Grant Agreements" means the ORM Grant Agreement and
the ODEM Grant Agreement (both as hereinafter defined);
(i) "IER" means the Institut d'Economie Rurale of the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, responsible for the conduct
and coordination of crop research;
(j) "ODEM" means Op"ration D'veloppement de l'Elevage
Mopti, an op&ration de d6veloppement rural established within
the Borrower's Ministry responsible for Natural Resources and
Livestock pursuant to Decree No. 76/PG-RM of the Borrower, dated
May 7, 1975;
(k) "ODEM Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower and ODEM pursuant to Section 3.03 of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to that ODEM Grant Agreement;
(1) "ODEM Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(m   "OPAM" means Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali;
(n) "ORM" means Operation Riz Mopti, an        op6ration  de
d6veloppement rural established within the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture pursuant to Decree No. 34/PG-RM of the Borrower,
dated March 25, 1972;
(o) "ORM Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into by the Borrower and ORM pursuant to Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to that ORM Grant Agreement;
(p) "ORM Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(q) "Production Improvement Fund Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.15 of the Project Agreement;


﻿-4-
(r) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ORM, ODEM, IER and BNDA of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(s) "Project Area" means the area of operations of ODEM and
ORM covering approximately 95,000 km2 and including the Inner
Delta region of the Niger River in Mali;
(t)  "Project  Preparation   Advances"  means   the  project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 11 and August 31,
1982, April 16 and July 16, 1983 and May 24 and August 29, 1984
between the Borrower and the Association;
(u) "Special Account" means either the ORM Special Account
or the ODEM Special Account, depending on the context;
(v) "SRCSS" means the Service de R6glementation et Contr8le
des Semences S6lectionnees of IER charged with the quality
control of seed production; and
(w) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BNDA pursuant to Section
3.04 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The    Association  agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 19,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods


﻿-5-
and services re4uired for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain two special accounts in CFAF, the
ORM Special Account and the ODEM Special Account, in a financial
institution on terms and conditions acceptable to the Associa-
tion. Deposits into, and payments out of, the ORM Special Account
and the ODEM Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1991
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2,05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Jan-
uary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1995, and ending Jan-
uary 15, 2035, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 2005, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The following persons are designated as repre-
sentatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or. permitted to be taken under the provisions of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the managing director of ORM with respect to Cate-
gories (1) to (6), both inclusive, of the table set forth in
paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreeent;
(b) the managing director of OPEM with respect to Cate-
gories (7) to (12), both inclusive, of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the general manager of BNDA with respect to Category
(13) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(a) shall carry out Part E.5 of the Project through its
Ministry of Agriculture; and


﻿-7-
(b) shall cause: (i) DNGR and DNHE to cooperate with ODEM
in carrying out Part B.1 of the Project; (ii) the Regional Fores-
try Service of the Borrower's Ministry responsible for Natural
Resources and Livestock to cooperate with ORM in carrying out
Part F of the Project; (iii) the Regional Health Service of the
Borrower to cooperate with ODEM and ORM in carrying out Part G of
the Project; and (iv) DNAFLA to cooperate with ORM and ODEM in
carrying out the literacy component of Part H.3 of the Project;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, forestry, education and health prac-
tices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purposes; and
(c) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall
cause ORM, ODEM, IER and BNDA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable ORM, ODEM, IER and BNDA to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the
Credit: (a) make available the equivalent of four million six
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,600,000) or such
other amount or amounts as shall be allocated from time to time
to Categories (1) to (5), both inclusive, of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to ORM; and (b)
make available the equivalent of five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 500,000) or such other amount or amounts as
shall be allocated from time to time to Category (6) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to IER
through ORM, both under the ORM Grant Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ORM under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association and which shall include the
obligation of ORM to make available to IER such amounts as shall
be allocated from time to time to that Category (6).
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the
Credit make available the equivalent of nine million four hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,400,000) or such other


﻿-8-
amount or amounts as shall be allocated from time to time to
Categories (7) to (12), both inclusive- of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to ODEM under the
ODEM Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
ODEM under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the
Credit relend the equivalen- of two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 200,000) or such other amount or amounts as
shall be allocated from time to time to Category (13) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to
BNDA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BNDA under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association and which shall include: (a)
repayment by BNDA to the Borrower of amounts so relent to BNDA
over a period of 15 years, from the date a credit is provided by
BNDA to a beneficiary; (b) payment of interest at a rate of not
less than 3% per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time; (c) bearing by the Borrower of the
risk of fluctuations in the values of currencies so relent to
BNDA by the Borrower; and (d) equal sharing by the Borrower and
BNDA of the risk of default on credits provided by BNDA out of
the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the ORM Grant Agreement, the ODEM.Grant Agreement and the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the ORM Grant Agreement, the ODEM Grant Agreement or
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall allow private traders to
trade in paddy and rice throughout the Project Area.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall at all times the Project is
executed, employ a managing director of ODEM, a managing director
of ORM and a general manager of BNDA, each of whose qualifica-
tions and experience shall be acceptable to the Association.


﻿-9-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, with respect to loans made
by BNDA pursuant to Part C of the Project, cause BNDA to apply
the BNDA Lending Terms specified in Schedule 3 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3,09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
employment of consultants to assist ORM and ODEM in carrying out
the Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that ORM, ODEM, IER and BNDA, each insofar as applicable to it,
shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
tively) pursuant to Section 2.17 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.11. In order to carry out Part E.4 of the Project,
the Borrower shall: (i) not later than June 30, 1989 review with
the Association the results of the studies carried out under
Parts E.1, 2 and 3 of the Project; and not later than June 30,
1990, on the basis of that review, draft a development plan for
the Project Area, acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Corenants
Section 4.01. Without limitation or restriction upon its
obligations under Section 3.01 and 3.02 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall, any year the reserve created pursuant to Section
2.08 of the Project Agreement falls short of financing ORM's
total operating costs, promptly provide the necessary funds to
cover ORM's operating costs in that year.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) permit ORM to purchase, on behalf of OPAM, paddy grown
by farmers in the Project Area at the floor price determined each
year by the Borrower;
(b) cause OPAM to prefinance any purchase of paddy by ORM
on behalf of OPAM; and


﻿- 10
(c) cause ORM to be reimbursed for costs incurred by it for
transport, handling and milling of that paddy.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause the Sfvarg rice mill, managed by
ORM, to be operated only as long as such operation generates a
net profit, as such term is defined in Section 2.13 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. Notwithstanding the obligations set forth in
Section 3.08 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, not later
than April 30 of each year, review with BNDA and the Association
the interest rates charged by BNDA and thereafter cause BNDA to
adjust, within the limits of the prevailing monetary regulations,
its interest rates so that they remain positive in real terms.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ORM, ODEM, IER or BNDA shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
ORM, ODEM, IER or BNDA will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(c) The legislation referred to in Section 1.02 (b), (j) or
(n) shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
ORM, IER, ODEM or BNDA to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution, disestablish-
ment, reorganization or reassignment of responsbilities of ORM,
ODEM, IER or BNDA or for the suspension of the operations of one
or all of them without prior consultation with, and agreement of,
the Association.


﻿- 11 -
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower, ORM, ODEM, IER or
BNDA to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or
loan made to the Borrower, ORM, ODEM, IER or
BNDA for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terLas of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any   such loan   shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph  (i) of   this paragraph   shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that: (A) such suspen-
sion, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower, ORM,
ODEM, IER or BNDA to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower,
ORM, ODEM, IER or BNDA from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement and of ORM,
ODEM, IER or BNDA under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower, ORM, ODEM, IER and BNDA;
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section  6.01.   The  following  events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development


﻿- 12 -
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and BNDA;
(b) the ORM Grant Agreement and the ODEM Grant Agreement
have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and ORM, and the
Borrower and ODEM, respectively;
(c) ORM and ODEM shall have made arrangements, acceptable
to the Association, on the modalities    of their cooperation in
carrying out the Project;
(d) ORM and IER shall have made arrangements, acceptable to
the Association, on the modalities of their cooperation in
carrying out Parts D.2 and D.3 of the Project and the financing
of Parts D.1 and D.4 of the Project; and
(e) BNDA shall have established a branch office in S6varf.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ORM, ODEM, IER and BNDA, and is legally binding upon
ORM, ODEM, IER and BNDA in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and BNDA and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and BNDA in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the ORM Grant Agreement and the ODEM Grant Agree-
ment each have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and ORM and ODEM, respectively, and are legally binding upon the
Borrower and ORM and upon the Borrower and ODEM, respectively, in
accordance with the terms of each; and
(d) that the arrangements referred to in Sections 6.01 (c)
and (d) of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified


﻿- 13 -
by ORM, ODEM and IER, respectively, and are legally binding upon
ORM, ODEM and IER, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date OC4      U,/9' is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cle IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (d) and
(e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Commerce
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        972559
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (iLJT)


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
RegiBnal Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   ORM
(1) Civil works                 500,000         100%
(2) Vehicles and                700,000         100%
equipment
(3) Consultants,              1,900,000         100%
training,
fellowships,
studies and
audits
(4) Operating costs,
other than salaries:
(a) general              1,100,000         80% up to
operations                            SDR 660,000;
50% up to
SDR 990,000;
20% thereafter
(b)  research at           200,000         95%
Mopti by IER
and ORM
(5) Goods and services          200,000         95%
for Part F of
the Project, other
than salaries


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6) Operating costs,            500,000         95%
other than salaries,
for IER'S operation
at Kogoni and opera-
tion of SRCSS
II.   ODEM
(7) Civil works                 700,000         100%
(8) Vehicles and              1,300,000         100%
equipment
(9) Consultants,              4,300,000         100%
training,
fellowships,
studies and
audits
(10) Operating costs,         2,200,000         35%
other than salaries
(11) Goods and services         300,000         95%
for Part G of
the Project, other
than salaries
(12) Goods and services         600,000         100%
to be financed out of
the Production
Improvement Fund
III. BNDA
(13) Line of credit fer         200,000         20%
storage wells
under Part C.4
of the Project


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
IV. Other
(14) Refunding of             1,000,000        Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advances                             of this Agreement
(15) Unallocated              4,000,000
TOTAL              19,700,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of Category (6) before the Association shall
have approved the first five-year work program and budget in
accordance with Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement;
(b) in respect of Category (12) in excess of the equivalent
of SDR 300,000 unless the Association shall be satisfied that the
amounts deposited in the Production Improvement Fund were util-
ized for payments of eligible expenditures as defined in Sched-
ule 2 to the Project Agreement; and
(c) in respect of Category (13) unless: (i) BNDA has fur-
nished the Association with evidence that aLll requirements of
Section 2.16 of the Project Agreement have been fulfilled; and
(ii) all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of the
ODEM Loan have been fulfilled.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to develop and protect the
production potential of the Project Area and, in particular, to
increase rice and livestock production with a view to increasing
incomes of small farmers and herdsmen, to strengthen the institu-
tional framework for agricultural development at the local level,
to decontrol and rationalize the paddy and rice pricing and
marketing system, to improve seed production, and to acquire
greater knowledge of land-use patterns in the Project Area with a
view to devising a strategy for optimal interaction between agri-
cultural and livestock activities. The Project consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   Crop Production
1.   Improvement of the system for controlled flooding of about
27,000 hectares through the construction and maintenance of
secondary distribution channels and secondary partition and
access dykes.
2.   Development of an annual flood forecasting model for the
Niger and Sankarani Rivers and establishment and operation of
associated monitoring units.
3.   Implementation of a land-use and water management plan toge-
ther with a reallocation of land among farmers in the Project
Area.
Part B:   Livestock Production
1.   Construction of about 44 stock ponds and about 30 deep wells
and associated storage wells.
2.   Identification and establishment of about 30 APs for the
protection and rational use of grazing lands and provision of
assistance   to  livestock   producer  groups   in   the  formal
establishment of APs.
3.   Establishment of an animal healtE program, strengthening of
veterinary services and distribution and sale of animal feed,
vaccines and mineral licks.


﻿- 19 -
4.   Improvement of about 5,000 hectares of "bourgou" pasture,
including the introduction and multiplication of forage plants.
5.   Construction of four cattle markets at Douentza, Tenenkou,
Konna and Korientze and the rehabilitation of 9 rural slaughter
slabs.
6.   Establishment of a fund to finance minor livestock produc-
tion improvements.
Part C:   Credit
1.   Provision of short- and medium-term credit to livestock
owners for livestock fattening, improvement of market facilities
and other commercially oriented activities.
2.   Provision of medium-term credit to farmers and farmers'
groups for the purchase of work oxen, soil tillage equipment and
threshers.
3.   Provision of medium-term credit to village blacksmiths for
purchase of repair equipment.
4.   Provision of long-term credit to APs for the construction of
storage wells.
Part D:   Rice Seed Production and Applied Research
1.   Rehabilitation  of  the  foundation  seed production   farm
operated by IER at Kogoni, including the overhaul of hydraulic
structures, reconstruction of buildings and provision of field
and laboratory equipment and vehicles for conducting farm tests.
2.   Construction  and   equipping   of   a   small  rice   seed
multiplication farm operated by ORM at Mopti;
3.   Support of IER's applied research programs at Kogoni and
Mopti for agricultural equipment, varietal improvements, fertili-
zation, weed control, dryland and fodder crops, farming systems
and seed production.
4.   Support of SRCSS through the construction and equipment of a
laboratory at Kogoni and the provision of vehicles for field
inspections of rice seed multiplication operations.


﻿- 20 -
Part E:   Studies and Demarcation
1.   Studies  and  monitoring  of  agricultural, livestock   and
fishing production systems, as well as land and water use, soil
quality and labor, and other factors of production and output in
the Project Area, including a special study of the area to be
affected by the Djenne Dam.
2.   Aerial photo coverage and preparation of photomaps of the
Project Area to improve the quality of data on village land use.
3.   Demarcation and landmarking of grazing areas and cattle
routes in the Project Area.
4.   Preparation of a development plan for the Project Area based
on the studies formulated under Parts E.1, 2 and 3 of the
Project.
5.   Study of private rice milling and of private paddy and rice
marketing in Mali.
Part F:   Village Forestry Activities
Starting of tree nurseries, provision of seedlings to
villages and testing of tree varieties throughout the Project
Area.
Part G:   Rural Health Care
Execution  of   a  rural  health   program,  including  the
strengthening of health services, the provision of medicines, the
development of primary health care and the training of health
officers and villagers.
Part H:   Training and Extension
1.   Construction and operation of a training center at Sgvar6.
2.   Training at Sevare and abroad by ORM of its extension work-
ers in matters of financial management, training methods, farm
mechanization, paddy marketing, and tree care; and by ODEM of its
extension workers in matters of financial management, training
methods, livestock owner development and range and pasture
management.


﻿- 21 -
3.   Training of and provision of extension services to village
leaders, producer groups and farmers in the Project Area by staff
of ORM, ODEM, BNDA and the Department of Water Resources and
Forestry of the Borrower's Ministry responsible for Natural
Resources and Livestock in matters of literacy, agricultural
credit, communal paddy marketing, rice seed production, pest
control, care and feeding of draft animals and small livestock,
conservation and use of crop by-products, collection and rational
use of manure, handling of agricultural equipment, village tree
planting, repair and maintenance of farm equipment, primary
health care, and other forms of village development.
4.   Training of about 28 village blacksmiths in repair and
adaptation of farm equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1990.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Annex:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) to (11), both
inclusive, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of
ODEM, an amount in CFAF equivalent to SDR 210,000 and, in respect
of ORM, an amount in CFAF equivalent to SDR 210,000, which is to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by ORM or ODEM,
as the case may be, for a deposit or deposits which add up to the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Association
shall, on behalf of ORM or ODEM, withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) ORM and ODEM shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the


﻿- 23 -
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association   from  the  Credit  Account   under  the  respective
Categories (1) to (6), both inclusive, in respect of the ORM
Special  Account,   and  under  Categories   (7)  to  (11), both
inclusive, in respect of the ODEM Special Account, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by ORM or ODEM, as the case may be,
out of the Special Account for which ORM or ODEM requests
replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, ORM
or ODEM shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time
of such request, such documents and other evidence as the
Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment
was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by ORM
or ODEM from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated   to  Categories   (1)   to   (6),  both
inclusive, in respect of the ORM Special Account,
and Categories (7) to (11), both inclusive, in
respect of the ODEM Special Account for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Association   and  of   any   outstanding  special
commitment   entered  into   by   the  Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Catego-
ries (1) to (6), both inclusive, in respect of the ORM Special


﻿- 24 -
Account, and Categories (7) to (11), both inclusive, in respect
of the ODEM Special Account for the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and ORM or ODEM, as the case may be. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of __       ,
198 7.
FOR SECRETARY


