Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3868-COM 
 
Agreement Providing for  
the Amendment and Restatement  
of the  
Project Agreement 
 
(Services Support Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
FONDS D’APPUI AU DÉVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE 
 
Dated October 5, 2009 
 
Page  2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3868-COM 
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR  
THE AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF 
THE PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 2009 between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and 
FONDS D’APPUI AU 
DÉVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE
 (FADC). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Services Support Project - Credit Number 3868 COM), 
dated May 3, 2004 (the Development Credit Agreement) and FADC and the Association 
have entered into a Project Agreement of the same date related thereto, for the purpose of 
providing support during the execution of the Services Support Project, as described in 
Recital of the Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in the support of the Project and to otherwise restructure the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis
,
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I
 
Section 1.01. The Project Agreement is hereby amended and restated so as to 
read as set forth in the Annex hereto. 
Section 1.02. This Agreement shall become effective upon the signing hereof. 
Page  4
2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names at New York and the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
FONDS D’APPUI AU DÉVELOPPEMENT 
COMMUNAUTAIRE 
 
By   
 
 
 
 
/s/ Doulfat Dhilkamal 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
    /s/ 
Johannes 
Zutt 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
3
ANNEX 
 
To Agreement providing for Amendment and Restatement of the  
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3868-COM 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Services Support Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
FONDS D’APPUI AU DÉVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE 
 
Dated May 3, 2004 
 
Page  6
4
CREDIT NUMBER 3868-COM 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and 
FONDS D’APPUI AU 
DÉVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE
 (FADC). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between Union of the Comoros (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
nine million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that FADC agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary agreement
 
to be entered into between the Borrower and 
FADC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to FADC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS FADC, in co
nsideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Page  7
5
Section 2.01. (a) FADC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and FADC shall otherwise agree, FADC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.  
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. FADC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.  
 
Section 2.04. FADC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FADC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) FADC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, the Procedures Manual, the 
Accounting and Administrative Procedures Manual, the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Credit; 
 
(b)  
FADC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by FADC of its obligations under this 
Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement, the Procedures Manual, the Accounting and 
Administrative Procedures Manual, the Environmental and Social Management 
Framework, and the Resettlement Policy Framework; and 
Page  8
6
(c) 
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, FADC shall 
participate fully in the review referred to in paragraph C.2 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement and in any other review of the Project to be carried out 
by the Borrower and the Association and, to this end, shall: (i) furnish to the Borrower 
and the Association such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in such detail 
as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of 
the Project; and (ii) following each review, act promptly and diligently in order to take, or 
assist the Borrower in taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement, or assist the 
Borrower in implementing, such other measures as may have been agreed upon between 
the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
 
Section 2.06. Not later than December 31 of each year during the implementation 
of the Project, FADC shall prepare and submit to the Association, the Project 
Implementation Plan, acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, setting forth the 
work program and the related budget for the carrying out of the activities under the 
Project during the following calendar year. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of FADC 
 
Section 3.01. FADC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. FADC shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, office 
space, machinery, equipment, vehicles and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance 
with sound engineering, financial, technical and environmental practices. 
 
Section 3.03. FADC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
Section 3.04. FADC shall have its administrative, technical and managerial 
performance for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, having regard to the provisions of this Agreement, the Subsidiary 
Agreement, the Procedures Manual, the Accounting and Administrative Procedures 
Manual, the Environmental and Social Management Framework, and the Resettlement 
Policy Framework. 
Page  9
7
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  FADC shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) FADC 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association) commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made, audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors,  in scope and detail satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon FADC’s reporting obligations set out 
in paragraphs C.1 (b), C.2 (b) and C.2 (c) of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, FADC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring 
Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
Page  10
8
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period 
not covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
FADC there under shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date fifteen (15) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify FADC of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  11
9
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 For 
FADC: 
 
Fonds d’Appui au Développement Communautaire 
 
Route Hadoudja 
 
B. P. 2494 
 
Moroni 
 
Comores 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(269) 73 28 84  
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FADC, or by 
FADC on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by its National Executive Director or such other person or persons as 
its National Executive Director shall designate in writing, and FADC shall furnish to the 
Page  12
10
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  13
11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By   
 
 
 
/s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
 
FONDS D’APPUI AU DÉVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE 
 
By 
 
   /s/ 
Mahamoud 
Aboud 
Authorized Representative 
Page  14
12
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  15
13
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and equipment, including medical equipment, may be procured from the 
Inter-
Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) and United Nations Children’s Fund 
(UNICEF), in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
4. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, as set forth in the Procedures 
Manual. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 
equivalent, and each contract for works estimated to cost more than $75,000 equivalent, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3. Post 
Review
Page  16
14
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for supervision of rehabilitation and extension of water supply networks 
under Part D of the Project may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  
 3. 
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) technical assistance
 
under Parts B, D 
and E of the Project, and (b) small studies under Part E of the Project, shall be procured 
Page  17
15
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every twelve 
months during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association.
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts.  
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  18
16
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
A.  
Overall Project Implementation
1. 
(a) 
The main organs of FADC shall be the FADC Central Coordination 
Committee, the FADC National Executive Secretariat, and a FADC Regional Committee 
and a FADC Regional Executive Secretariat for each of the three islands comprised in the 
Borrower’s territory. 
(b) 
The FADC National Executive Secretariat shall be headed by a National 
Executive Director. 
(c) The 
FADC Central Coordination Committee
 shall meet regularly and 
shall be responsible for approval of the annual work programs and budgets, review of  
audit reports, and appointment of the National Executive Director, and of a Regional 
Executive Director to head each of the FADC Regional Executive Secretariats. 
(d) 
FADC shall ensure that the position of the National Executive Director, 
as well as those of the Regional Directors and other higher level staff, shall be kept filled 
at all times by appropriate officials, having qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference which shall have been communicated to, and deemed acceptable by, the 
Association. 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FADC shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Procedures Manual, the 
Accounting and Administrative Procedures Manual, the Project Implementation Plans, 
the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework;  and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the 
Procedures Manual, the Accounting and Administrative Procedures Manual, the Project 
Implementation Plans, the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the 
opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
B.  
Subprojects and Grants
1. 
The proceeds of the Credit allocated for purposes of Grants to finance 
Subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project shall be subject to the following terms and 
conditions: 
Page  19
17
(a) 
the amount so transferred to FADC shall be used exclusively to provide 
Grants for the benefit of Beneficiaries
 
to finance the construction and rehabilitation of 
basic social and economic infrastructure needed to maintain essential community 
services; 
(b) 
the Subproject shall be for any of the types of activities referred to in 
Part A of the Project; 
(c) 
no Subproject shall be considered for financing under the Project except 
in accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in the Procedures Manual; 
(d) 
the Subproject shall be economically, financially, environmentally, 
socially, institutionally and technically sound in accordance with the standards specified 
in the Procedures Manual, the Environmental and Social Management Framework and 
the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
(e) 
an analysis of the environmental impacts of the Subproject shall be 
undertaken in compliance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework, and, if applicable, an 
environmental impact assessment shall be carried out and any other environmental and 
social requirements, including mitigation, compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement 
measures, provided under the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, shall be complied with, all in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association; 
(f) 
adequate arrangements shall be in place for the financing of maintenance 
and other incremental recurrent costs related to the Subproject; and 
(g) 
the amount of each Grant shall be determined according to a cost-sharing 
formula, which shall be acceptable to the Association and specified in the Procedures 
Manual; provided, however, that: 
(i) 
the proceeds of a Grant shall not be used to finance taxes or 
duties levied on or in respect of any eligible expenditures 
relating to the Grant; and 
(ii) 
the amount of each Grant shall not exceed seventy five million 
KMF (KMF 75,000,000). 
2.
 
Applications for Grants to finance Subprojects shall be prepared by the 
Beneficiaries based on priorities identified in the local and intercommunity development 
Page  20
18
plans.  Subprojects shall be appraised by the respective FADC Regional Executive 
Secretariat. Applications for Grants equal to or in excess of fifteen million KMF (KMF 
15,000,000) shall be transmitted for final approval by the FADC Regional Executive 
Secretariat to the FADC National Executive Secretariat. 
3. 
Where the respective FADC Regional Subproject Committee or the FADC 
National Executive Secretariat, as the case may be, approves an application for a Grant, 
FADC Regional Subproject Committee or the FADC National Executive Secretariat, as 
the case may be, refers such application to the relevant
 
FADC Regional Executive 
Secretariat for financing. 
4.
 
Subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project shall be carried out pursuant to 
Financing Agreements, to be concluded between FADC and the Beneficiaries, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, 
inter alia
,
shall include the 
following: 
(a) 
 financing to be on a grant basis; 
(b) 
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the 
Procedures Manual, the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound environmental, social, technical, financial and managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject; 
(c) 
where applicable, the obligation to carry out, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Borrower and the Association, an environmental analysis and an environmental 
assessment, and to adopt adequate environmental mitigation measures including 
resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced persons in accordance with the provisions of 
the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework; 
(d) 
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works, and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject; 
(e)  
the right of FADC to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites and construction included in the 
Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
Page  21
19
(f)  
the right of FADC to obtain all information as the Borrower or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the Subproject; and 
(g)  
the right of FADC to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to 
use the proceeds of the Grant for the Subproject upon failure by the Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under its Financing Agreement.  
C. 
Communal Pilot Projects
1. 
The proceeds of the Credit allocated for purposes of financing Communal Pilot 
Projects under Part A.2 of the Project shall be subject to the following terms and 
conditions: 
(a) 
the Communal Pilot Project shall be for any of the types of activities 
referred to in Part A.2 of the Project; 
(b) 
no Communal Pilot Project shall be considered for financing under the 
Project except in accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in the 
Procedures Manual; 
(c) 
the Communal Pilot Project shall be economically, financially, 
environmentally, socially, institutionally and technically sound in accordance with the 
standards specified in the Procedures Manual, the Environmental and Social Management 
Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
(d) 
an analysis of the environmental impacts of the Communal Pilot Project 
shall be undertaken in compliance with the provisions of  the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework, and, if applicable, an 
environmental impact assessment shall be carried out and any other environmental and 
social requirements, including mitigation, compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement 
measures, provided under the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, shall be complied with, all in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association; 
(e) 
adequate arrangements shall be in place for the financing of maintenance 
and other incremental recurrent costs related to the Communal Pilot Project; and 
(f) 
the amount of each Communal Pilot Project shall be determined 
according to a cost-sharing formula, which shall be acceptable to the Association and 
specified in the Procedures Manual. 
Page  22
20
2. 
Communal Pilot Projects under Part A.2 of the Project shall be carried out 
pursuant to Framework Agreements, to be concluded between FADC and the Communes, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, 
inter alia
,
shall include 
the following: 
(a) 
the obligation to carry out the Communal Pilot Project in accordance 
with the Procedures Manual, the Environmental and Social Management Framework and 
the Resettlement Policy Framework, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound environmental, social, technical, financial and managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Communal Pilot Project; 
(b) 
where applicable, the obligation to carry out, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Borrower and the Association, an environmental analysis and an environmental 
assessment, and to adopt adequate environmental mitigation measures including 
resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced persons in accordance with the provisions of 
the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework; 
(c) 
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works, and services to be financed  
shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Communal Pilot  Project; 
(d) 
the right of FADC to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites and construction included in the 
Communal Pilot  Project, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(e) 
the right of FADC to obtain all information as the Borrower or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the Communal Pilot  Project; and 
(f) 
the right of FADC to suspend or terminate the right of the Commune 
upon failure by the Commune to perform any of its obligations under its Framework 
Agreement.
 
