Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H265-COM 
 
Agreement Providing for  
the Amendment and Restatement  
of the 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Services Support Project-First Additional Financing) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
FONDS D’APPUI AU DÉVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE 
 
Dated October 5, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H265-COM 
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR  
THE AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF 
THE PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated October 5, 2009, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) and 
FONDS D’APPUI AU 
DÉVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE
 (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project 
Agreement”) in connection with the Financing Agreement of same date between the 
UNION OF COMOROS (“Recipient) and the Association (the “Financing Agreement”) 
(the Agreement to Amend the Financing Agreement). 
WHEREAS the Project Implementing Entity and the Association have agreed to 
amend the Project Agreement between the Project Implementing Entity and the 
Association dated February 21, 2007, in the manner hereinafter set forth; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
 
Section 1.01. The Project Agreement is hereby amended and restated so as to 
read as set forth in the Annex hereto. 
Section 1.02. This Agreement shall become effective upon the signing hereof. 
 
Page  3
2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names at New York, and the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
FONDS D’APPUI AU DÉVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Doulfat 
Dhilkamal 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Johannes 
Zutt 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR  
THE AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF 
THE PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
GRANT NUMBER H265-COM 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Services Support Project - First Additional Financing) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
FONDS D’APPUI AU DÉVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE 
 
Dated February 21, 2007  
Page  5
GRANT NUMBER H265-COM 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 21, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) and 
FONDS D’APPUI AU 
DÉVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE
 (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project 
Agreement”) in connection with the Financing Agreement of same date between the 
UNION OF COMOROS (“Recipient) and the Association (the “Financing Agreement”).  
The Association and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project. To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
Page  6
2
ARTICLE III 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is its National Executive 
Director. 
3.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INTBAFRAD 
 248423(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Fonds d’Appui au Développement Communautaire 
 
Route Hadoudja 
 
B. P. 2494 
 
Moroni 
 
Comores 
Facsimile:  
(269) 73 28 84 
Page  7
3
AGREED at Washington, DC, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Irene Xenakis 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
FONDS D’APPUI AU DÉVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE 
 
By /s/ Mahamoud Aboudou 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  8
4
SCHEDULE 
Execution of the Project 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A.  
Overall Project Implementation
1. 
(a) 
The main organs of the Project Implementation Entity shall be the FADC 
Central Coordination Committee, the FADC National Executive 
Secretariat, and a FADC Regional Committee and a FADC Regional 
Executive Secretariat for each of the three islands comprised in the 
Recipient’s territory. 
(b) 
The FADC National Executive Secretariat shall be headed by a National 
Executive Director. 
(c) The 
FADC Central Coordination Committee
 shall meet regularly and 
shall be responsible for approval of the annual work programs and 
budgets, review of audit reports, and appointment of the National 
Executive Director, and of a Regional Executive Director to head each of 
the FADC Regional Executive Secretariats. 
(d) 
The Project Implementation Entity shall ensure that the position of the 
National Executive Director, as well as those of the Regional Directors 
and other higher level staff, shall be kept filled at all times by appropriate 
officials, having qualifications, experience and terms of reference which 
shall have been communicated to, and deemed acceptable by, the 
Association. 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project Implementation 
Entity shall: (a) apply the criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out 
in the Procedures Manual, the Accounting and Administrative Procedures 
Manual, the Project Implementation Plans, the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework;  and (b) not 
amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the Procedures Manual, the 
Accounting and Administrative Procedures Manual, the Project Implementation 
Plans, the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in 
the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
Page  9
5
B.  
Sub-projects and Sub-Grants
1. 
The proceeds of the Grant allocated for purposes of Sub-Grants to finance Sub-
projects under Part A.1 of the Project shall be subject to the following terms and 
conditions: 
(a) 
the amount so transferred to the Project Implementation Entity shall be 
used exclusively to provide Sub-Grants for the benefit of Beneficiaries
 
to 
finance the construction and rehabilitation of basic social and economic 
infrastructure needed to maintain essential community services; 
(b) 
the Sub-project shall be for any of the types of activities referred to in 
Part A1. of the Project; 
(c) 
no Sub-project shall be considered for financing under the Project except 
in accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in the 
Procedures Manual; 
(d) 
the Sub-project shall be economically, financially, environmentally, 
socially, institutionally and technically sound in accordance with the 
standards specified in the Procedures Manual, the Environmental and 
Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
(e) 
an analysis of the environmental impacts of the Sub-project shall be 
undertaken in compliance with the provisions of  the Environmental and 
Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework, 
and, if applicable, an environmental impact assessment shall be carried 
out and any other environmental and social requirements, including 
mitigation, compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement measures, 
provided under the Environmental and Social Management Framework 
and the Resettlement Policy Framework, shall be complied with, all in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association; 
(f) 
adequate arrangements shall be in place for the financing of maintenance 
and other incremental recurrent costs related to the Sub-project; and 
(g) 
the amount of each Sub-Grant shall be determined according to a cost-
sharing formula, which shall be acceptable to the Association and 
specified in the Procedures Manual; provided, however, that the amount 
of each Sub-Grant shall not exceed seventy-five million KMF 
(KMF 75,000,000). 
Page  10
6
2. 
Applications for Sub-Grants to finance Sub-projects shall be prepared by the 
Beneficiaries based on priorities identified in the local and community 
development plans. Sub-projects shall be appraised by the respective FADC 
Regional Executive Secretariat. Applications for Sub-Grants equal to or in excess 
of fifteen million KMF (KMF 15,000,000) shall be transmitted for final approval 
by the FADC Regional Executive Secretariat to the FADC National Executive 
Secretariat.  
3. 
Where the FADC National Executive Secretariat, as the case may be, approves 
an application for a Sub-Grant, the FADC National Executive Secretariat refers 
such application to the relevant
 
FADC Regional Executive Secretariat for 
financing. 
4. 
Sub-projects under Part A.1 of the Project shall be carried out pursuant to 
Financing Agreements, to be concluded between the Project Implementation 
Entity and the Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, which, 
inter alia
,
shall include the following: 
(a) 
financing to be on a grant basis; 
(b) 
the obligation to carry out the Sub-project in accordance with 
the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds 
other than the Recipient, 
the Procedures Manual, the Environmental 
and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound environmental, social, technical, financial and managerial 
standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Sub-project; 
(c) 
where applicable, the obligation to carry out, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Recipient and the Association, an environmental analysis and an 
environmental assessment, and to adopt adequate environmental 
mitigation measures including resettlement and rehabilitation of 
displaced persons in accordance with the provisions of the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement 
Policy Framework; 
(d) 
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works, and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Sub-Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement; and (ii) such 
goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
the Sub-project;  
Page  11
7
(e) 
the right of the Project Implementation Entity to inspect, by itself, or 
jointly with the Association, if the Association shall so request, the 
goods, works, sites and construction included in the Sub-project, the 
operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(f) 
the right of the Project Implementation Entity to obtain all information as 
the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operations and financial conditions of the Sub-project; 
and 
(g) 
the right of the Project Implementation Entity to suspend or terminate the 
right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-Grant for the Sub-
project upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations 
under its Financing Agreement.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress 
of 
Part A and part of Part E of the Project 
and prepare Project Reports 
for the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 (b) of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below 
in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each such Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Recipient not later than two weeks after the end of the period covered by 
such report for incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the 
Association of the overall Project Report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist 
of the following
:
(i) 
Number of community-based sub-projects completed under Part 
A
of the Project. 
(ii) 
Number of community-based sub-projects completed under Part 
A
of the Project properly maintained one year after completion. 
(iii) 
Level of the Operating Ratio.
 
(iv) 
Increase in enrollment in FADC built/rehabilitated schools or 
classrooms. 
Page  12
8
(v) 
Increase in the number of people in project areas with access to 
improved water source. 
(vi) 
Increase in the number of people in project areas benefiting from 
improved roads. 
(vii) 
Number of communities in which community-development plans 
are completed. 
(viii)  Completion of technical audits of the community-based sub-
projects completed under Part A of the Project. 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient not later than four 
month after the Closing Date, for incorporation in the report referred to in 
Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions all such information as the Recipient 
or the Association shall reasonably request for the purposes of such Section.  
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, 
including the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part A and part of 
Part E of the Project. 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association.  Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of 
one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity.  The audited financial 
statements for each period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six 
months after the end of the period. 
3. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 
45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. 
Page  13
9
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for Part A and part of Part E of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement.  
 
