REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES
FADC III
CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(Rapport Provisionnel 10/30/2003)
ALKA KOTHARI



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
List of Acronyms                                                     3
Executive Summary                                                    4
1.0   Introduction                                                   7
2.0   Project Description                                            8
3.0   Safeguard Screening Procedures                                 11
4.0   Baseline Data                                                  13
5.0   Description of the Policy, Legislative, and Institutional Frameworks  18
6.0   Guidance on Impacts                                            23
7.0   Reporting and Responsibilities for the ESME                    27
8.0   Proposed Screening Mechaniism and Checklist of Risks and       31
Capacity Building
9.0    Environmental Management Plan, Review and Clearing            33
Process for Sub-projects
Annex 1      Sample Screening Form                                   38
Annex 2      Procedures for Sub-project Investments Requiring EA     43
Annex 3      Sample Checklist                                        44
Annex 4      List of Documents Reviewed                              46
Annex 5      Villages Visited during Field Mission                   47
Amnex 6      Country and Island Maps                                 48
2



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
List of Acronyms
EMP - Environment Management Plan
ESIA - Environment and Social Impact Assessment (for sub-projects)
ESMF - Enviromnent and Social Management Framework
GoC - Government of Comoros
FADC - Fonds d'Appui au Developpement Communautaire
SEN - Secretariat Executif National
SER - Secretariats Executifs Regionaux
CP - Comite de Pilotage
CGL - Comite de Gestion de l'Eau
RPF - Resettlement Policy Framework
IEE - Proj et Infrastructure, Eau et Environnement
FP - Focal Point
3



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
1.0 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Government of Comoros has requested support for the preparation and financing of
an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for the third phase of the
Comoros Social Fund project. The project intends to support the Government of
Comoros' efforts to address the incidence of poverty among the country's poorer
communities through the replenishment of a social fund designed to (a) increase access to
basic social services for the poorest; (b) stimulate economic activities at the community
level; and (c) promote institutional development at the local government and community
levels.
The proposed credit will support financing for the following four components:
a) Community based activities
This component would continue to finance small-scale social and economic sub-projects
identified by communities, with an expanded menu of services to include social
protection programs and capacity building initiatives. Support to community health
services will also be financed. Direct community financing will also be piloted and
scaled up based on lessons learned. By the end of the project, it is expected that targeted
communities would have developed and implemented community based development
plans through a participatory planning process.
b) Urban water supply and periodic road maintenance on Anjouan and Moheli
These activities were already identified under the IEE project and include
rehabilitation/maintenance of 184 kilometers of existing national roads, and
rehabilitation/extension of water supply in three towns in Anjouan and the capital in
Moheli. This component would also finance capacity building of water management
committees and Information and Education Campaigns (IEC) on water management, the
environment, and hygiene.
3) Support to Rural Development through Income-Generating Activities
This component would finance demand-driven income-generating sub-projects to finance
small productive infrastructure with beneficiary contribution of at least 20 percent of the
total sub-project cost. Eligible beneficiaries would be producer organizations and rural
communities. Productive infrastructure and off-farm activities would be financed along
with support services needed for the identification and implementation of the sub-
projects. Finally this component would provide extension and training services, capacity
building for the relevant stakeholders, and technical assistance to local financial
institutions.
4) Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) and Project Management
This component would support M&E activities, including moving beyond monitoring of
project outputs to undertake an impact assessment of the activities of the community
based activities over the life of the project. FADC operating costs and key technical
assistance are also included under this component. It is expected that the project will be
successfully implemented in a cost effective and decentralized mamler. Furthennore, the
project will emphasize the participatory monitoring and evaluation approach by involving
4



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
beneficiary communities throughout the project cycle; and use external monitors to build
strong transparency in the management of project components.
The Main Tasks of the Study are:
* To develop an enviromnental and social management framework that establishes
methodologies for environmental and social impact assessment within project
implementation;
* Identify potential policy issues regarding the environment and propose means of
resolution that could be undertaken during project implementation;
* Develop a capacity building program for stakeholders to carry out Environmental
Impact Assessments for micro-projects and to design potential mitigation measures in
line with the World Bank's safeguard requirements and environmental legal
requirements of the Government of Comoros.
The ESMF study was carried out by Alka Kothari after a site visit to Comoros from the
18th of August to the 2nd of September 2003. The consultant visited all three islands i.e.
Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli. Though this is the third phase of the Bank's
Social Fund credit to Comoros, it is the first ESMF to be carried out and so special
attention was paid by the consultant to ensure that the government, executing agency, and
stakeholders were consulted about the type of instrument being prepared and the
obligations for its proper implementation. The list of field visits by the consultant is
listed in Annex 1 together with the list of various stakeholders whom the consultant met
during the entire Mission. The list of documents reviewed is given in Annex 3.
The GoC by the Decree on Environment Impact Assessment in 2001 and the World
Bank's own Operational and Procedural Policies, specifically OP 4.01 requires the
government to prepare an ESMF report, which will establish a mechanism to determine
and assess future potential environmental and social impacts of project investments for
the proposed Social Fund III, and then to set out mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures to be taken during design, implementation and operation of the subprojects to
eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels. This is precisely what is required at this stage of project preparation
since the location of the sub-projects have not yet been identified.
OP 4.01 further requires that the ESMF report must be disclosed as a separate and stand
alone by the GoC and the World Bank as a condition for Bank Appraisal. The disclosure
should be both in Comoros where it can be accessed by the general public and local
communities and at the Infoshop of the World Banlk and the date for disclosure must
precede the date for appraisal of the project.
The key highlights in this ESMF report are as follows:
(i)   For the sub-project activities envisaged in the third Social Fund, the ESMF
establishes the screening process mechanism for the implementation of the
project activities to enable the local communities and the Comites de Pilotage
5



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
to simultaneously identify adverse potential environmental and social impacts
of their project activities and to address them by incorporating the relevant
mitigation measures into the designs before they submit them for review and
subsequent approval.
The main feature of this mechanism requires the project implementers
(Comites de Pilotage) to screen their projects at the preparation stage using the
screening form in Annex 1 and the environmental and social checklist in
Annex 2 to identify potential adverse effects/impacts.
The next requirement is for the iinplementers to incorporate the necessary
mitigation measures into the project design following which they are to
submit the project proposals accompanied by the completed screening form
and checklist to the reviewing body, which is the FADC-SER for approval.
(ii)  The ESMF identified and assessed to the extent possible, potential
environmental and social impacts and appropriate mitigation measures and
presented this in the forn of a checklist contained in Anlex 1.
(iii)  The ESMF also developed an environmental and social screening form that
would assist in deternining potential adverse environmental and social
impacts during project implementation pertaining to the project activities. This
fonn is contained in Annex 2.
(iv)  The capacity of the FADC to manage the ESMF was assessed. It was found
that the FADC required further strengthening through training in order to
properly manage the Framework. A training program and budget was
developed and is contained in the body of the ESMF. The Comites de
Pilotage, which are to be elected bodies that would represent the local
communities and help them to meet their responsibilities in the EA process as
outlined in this ESMF would greatly benefit from technical assistance and
training. The Department of Environment will also benefit from technical
assistance to facilitate their monitoring and supervision of training role.
(v)   Finally the ESMF contains an extensive and comprehensive environmental
and social monitoring plan to ensure that environmental and social issues will
be managed effectively.
(vi)  Meaningful consultations with local communities were held during the in-
country study part of the preparation, during which they were sensitized on
the requirements of the RPF and ESMF.
This Environment and Social Management Framework Report presents definitive,
conclusive and clear procedures consistent with the Laws in Comoros and the
World Bank Safeguard Policies.
6



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
1.0   INTRODUCTION
The Government of Comoros has requested support for the preparation and financing of
an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for the third phase of the
Comoros Social Fund project. The project intends to support the Government of
Comoros' efforts to address the incidence of poverty among the country's poorer
communities through the replenishment of a social fund designed to (a) increase access to
basic social services for the poorest; (b) stimulate economic activities at the community
level; and (c) promote institutional development at the local government and community
levels.
This is the report of a study to produce an environmental and social management
framework (ESMF) for the proposed Social Fund III.
1.1 The Objectives of the Study are:
* To assess the potential environmental and social impacts of the Social Fund Project,
whether positive or negative, and propose mitigation measures which will effectively
address these impacts;
* To inform the project preparation team and the Comorian Government of the potential
impact of different anticipated sub-projects, and relevant mitigation measures and
strategies;
* To establish clear directives and methodologies for the environmental and social
screening of micro-projects to be financed by the project through the FADC.
1.2 The Main Tasks of the Study are:
* To develop an environmental and social management framework that establishes
methodologies for environmental and social impact assessment within project
implementation;
*  Identify potential policy issues regarding the environment and propose means of
resolution that could be undertaken during project implementation;
* Develop a capacity building program for stakeholders to carry out Environmental
Impact Assessments for micro-projects and to design potential mitigation measures in
line with the World Bank's safeguard requirements and environmental legal
requirements of the Government of Comoros.
7



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
The ESMF study was carried out by Alka Kothari after a site visit to Comoros between
the 18th of August to the 2nd of September 2003. The consultant visited all three islands,
i.e. Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli. Though this is the third phase of the Bank's
Social Fund credit to Comoros, it is the first ESMF to be implemented, and so special
attention was paid by the consultant to ensure that the government, executing agency
FADC, and stakeholders were consulted about the type of instrument being prepared and
the obligations for its proper implementation. The list of field visits by the consultant is
listed in Annex 5. The list of documents reviewed is given in Annex 3.
1.3. Purpose of the Environmental and Social Management Framework Study
The consultant has been charged with the development of an Environmental and Social
Management Framework, because the precise details of the demand driven micro-
projects - in terms of exact location, materials required, key communities, etc. - to be
financed under the Social Fund Project are not yet determined. This is the case for the
community-driven development component but will also apply in the Infrastructure,
Water and Environmental component of the proposed project. These components are
discussed in greater detail in Chapter 2 under proj ect description.
The principal purpose of the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
is to screen the sub-projects on their environmental and social merits and manage their
potential environimental and social impacts.
2.0 DESCRIPTION du PROJET
Les objectifs proposes du nouveau projet FADC sont l'amelioration des conditions de vie
d'un nombre significatif des communautes defavorisees et des groupes vuln6rables
specifiques; l'augmentation de la capacite des communautes et acteurs locaux dans le
processus de planification pour le developpement ; et l'augmentation de la responsabilite
au niveau local et la transparence. FADC III est structure pour atteindre ses objectifs a
moins de quatre composants principaux d'investissements du projet, qui sont;
* Finiancernent des sous projets pour am6liorer les conditions de vie de la
population;
* Reniforcemnent des Capacitis stratigiques, au profit des partenaires du FADC
et y compris des activites d'IEC s'adressant a l'ensemble de la population;
* Appui au Developpemnent Rural Productif, a travers les activites generatrices
de revenus (AGR), en faisant la liaison entre les micro credits et les
infrastructures qui pourraient etre n6cessaires pour accompagner les cr6dits; et
*  Gestioni du Projet.
COMPOSANTE 1 : FINANCEMENT DES SOUS PROJ ETS
Cette composante pourra comprendre plusieurs sous volets, notamment (i) des petits
investissements sociaux; (ii) des programmes de protection sociale; et (iii) les
8



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
investissements prioritaires en l'adduction d'eau et l'entretien p6riodique des routes
(identifies dans le contexte du projet Infrastructure, Eau et Environnement - IEE
r6cemment cl6tur6). En outre, un sous volet destine a appuyer la sante pourrait etre
envisage.
COMPOSANTE 2: RENFORCEMENT DE CAPACITE
L'objectif de cette composante serait de renforcer la capacite aux niveaux locaux, y
compris les communautes, les gouvemements locaux, et les autres partenaires, tels que
les societ6s civiles, avec comme but final d'ameliorer les services sociaux et les
infrastructures. Le proj et propose doit egalement augmenter la responsabilite et la
transparence et doit aussi foumir des motivations pour le developpement d'une bonne
gouvemance. L'exigence des communautes pour de meilleurs services publics et la
responsabilite a leur egard peuvent etre stimulees par l'introduction des modeles de
planification de developpement et de l'engagement des communautes comparable a ceux
des fonds sociaux. La participation communautaire ainsi que le renforcement de sa
capacite de planification de sous-projets, de leur mise en oeuvre, de leur gestion et de leur
suivi seront renforcees, avec pour consequences une amelioration de la transparence dans
la budgetisation et dans les d6penses.
Cette composante pourrait appuyer deux types de renforcement de capacite: a) Activites
pilotes pour le developpement local: Ces activites pilotes pourraient promouvoir des
activites telles que le financement direct des communautes, de la planification
communautaire et de la planification au niveau des communes (inter-village); et b)
Investissements strategiques pour le renforcement de capacite telles que des activites
visant a ameliorer la qualite du service public, a r6aliser une sensibilisation pour la
prevention du SIDA, y compris le traitement des dechets medicaux, ou une sensibilisation
aux problemes environnementaux, etc.
COMPOSANTE 3: APPUI AU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL ET ACTIVITES GENERATRICES DE
REVENUS (AGR)
Cette composante a l'objectif sp6cifique de l'augmentation de la productivite et de la
production dans certains secteurs afin de promouvoir la croissance en milieu rural. I1 est
propose d'adopter une approche associative et de travailler avec les differentes formes
d'organisations paysannes et de producteurs. I1 est egalement propose de financer des
sous-projets comprenant des infrastructures productives a travers des subventions
incluant une contribution des beneficiaires ainsi que les fonds de roulement a travers des
credits. La gestion et l'exploitation des infrastructures productives devraient se faire en
commun mais la production resterait individuelle. I1 est envisage que le financement des
sous-projets se fera en collaboration avec les institutions de financement et de micro-
finance a travers un systeme de co-financement.
COMPOSANTE 4: GESTION DU PROJET
Cette composante financera les cofits operationnels du projet, ainsi que l'assistance
technique et le suivi et 6valuation du projet. Cette derniere activite constitue un element
9



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
cle pour assurer que cette phase du projet aura l'impact desire au niveau des populations
plus defavoris6es. Pour ce faire, il y aura une evaluation d'iimpact des demieres phases
du projet afin de pouvoir tirer des le,ons requises pour l'amelioration du systeme de suivi
et evaluation. Le proj et financera egalement une etude institutionnelle pour evaluer les
forces et faiblesses du FADC et pour formuler des recommandations sur les besoins en
nouveau personnel ou en renforcement de capacit6 du personnel existant.
2.2. The Social Fund project will finance community-initiated development projects and
is expected to finance mostly rehabilitation and/or construction of basic health and
education infrastructure, feeder roads, income generating activities, community water
supply schemes, road maintenance, and capacity building activities. It is envisaged that
some of these sub-projects will involve the construction of water supply and sanitation
facilities, primary education facilities, primary health care facilities, solid waste
management (medical waste), etc. Since at the time of preparation the sub-projects had
not yet been identified, the GoC by the Decret N°01-052/CE and Operational Policy 4.01
of the Bank require the GoC to prepare an Environment and Social Management
Framework which establishes an instrument used to determine and assess future potential
environmental and social impacts of sub-project investments under components one and
two of the proposed Social Fund III. To this effect, the project will initiate a
comprehensive Social and Environmental Awareness Building Program coupled with
capacity building activities to enable the communities to better understand the essence of
sustainable development through proper management of the natural resource base which
they depend on for their livelihood. The project will hire an environmental/social
specialist who will work under the FADC and in collaboration with the National
Environment Department to implement the Social and Enviromnental Awareness
Building Program, put in place monitoring, mitigation and institutional measures to
eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
sustainable levels.
2.3. Target Areas
The Social Fund project is expected to intervene on all three islands. These interventions
will be managed by Regional FADC offices in collaboration with the Comites de Pilotage
who implement the projects and represent the main beneficiaries. It is therefore essential
that the proposed awareness building program goes hand in hand with the sub-project
identification to allow for better understanding of the environmental and social
consequences of their selection. (See screening process)
Since the sub-projects mentioned above are to be created on a demand driven basis, each
sub-project that is subsequently identified and promoted by the local community would
be subjected to an environmental and social screening. The main feature of this screening
mechanism requires the project's Coordination Unit, the Comites de Pilotage to
understand the screening forms in Annex 1 and the environmental and social checklist in
Anmex 2. Once identified, the process evaluates alternatives and designs appropriate
mitigation, management and monitoring measures. The other important requirement is for
the implementers to incorporate the necessary mitigation measures into the project design
10



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
following which they are to submit the project proposals accompanied by the completed
screening form and checklist to the reviewing body, which is the FADC-SER for
approval.
3.0 SAFEGUARD SCREENING PROCEDURES
The proposed Environmental and Social Management Framework has been designed to
fully comply with national environmental codes and legislations in Comoros and with the
World Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies. This chapter sets out the key
safeguard policies that provide the policy context to the ESMF including World Bank
policies and Comoro's legal requirements on environmental assessment. More details of
the policy context are provided in Annex 3.
As part of the ESMF process, proposed micro-activities under the Social Fund III will be
designed at the local level to ensure that they are screened for potential impacts and that
they comply with the requirements set out under World Bank safeguard policies.
The Social Fund III is anticipated to set the pace to ensure that negative impacts on the
environment are minimized. One of its main objectives is therefore to promote
sustainable land use and ecologically sound natural resources management through
community driven development. Despite these efforts and due to the nature of the
potential micro-projects to be financed under the project as well as the recently inherited
Infrastructure, Water and Environment project, which involves infrastructure and water
rehabilitation, the proposed project has been rated Category B under the World Bank's
policy on environmental assessment (OP 4.01), requiring an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF). The ESMF is required to assess the potential impacts
associated with micro-projects. In addition to the OP 4.01, the Social Fund has also
triggered the Bank Involuntary Resettlement Policy OP4. 12 Table 3.1, and as such a
Resettlement Policy Framework will be prepared.



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES    CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
Table 3.0     Safeguard Policies
Policy                                                  Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                No
Forestry (OP4.36, GP 4.36)                                  No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP4. 12, BP 4.12)                 Yes
Safety of Dames (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)      No
3.1 Justification for preparation of the ESMF and the RPF
OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment)
The OP 4.01 has been triggered because there is the potential that implementation of the
sub-projects in one of the most fragile ecological systems and by people whose
knowledge of the fragility of these systems is limited ,may lead to negative
environmental impacts. Site visits on executed past sub-projects has determined that there
are no potential large-scale, significant or irreversible environmental impacts associated
with the project. The potential impacts identified are mainly localized impacts associated
with activities to be financed under the local investment funds (i.e. rural roads, feeder
roads through forest zones, tracks and pathways in pastoral zones, small scale dams,
piped water systems, wetlands and ecosystem management, and rangeland management),
which can be effectively mitigated and are addressed in the ESMF and using the
screening and review procedures in Chapter 6. The ESMF identifies the major potential
environmental issues that could arise as a result of project interventions and proposes
measures to be taken to mitigate these effects, including proposed training and
monitoring measures.
OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement)
The Project will support community investments in various types of micro-projects, of
which many, particularly those involving small-scale infrastructure, will require land for
construction. To mitigate against the potential for involuntary resettlement, a
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) has been prepared which provides the framework
for resettlement planning under the Social Fund. The screening tools provided in Annex
2 have been designed to address issues of resettlement and land acquisition in parallel
with the screening criteria developed under the RPF. The difficulty in Comoros is that
there are no clearly followed land tenure laws or policies and the existing traditional and
religious systems have been seriously tampered with during the several coup d'etats and
countless changes of Govenmment.
12



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
3.2. Mainstreaming Bank Safeguards into sub-project screening
The screening criteria provided in the ESMF includes relevant questions on natural
habitats/protected areas, involuntary resettlement and land acquisition, introduction of
pesticides, impacts to forestry resources, impacts to cultural property and inclusion of
indigenous people in the project identification process. This is meant to ensure that all
concerns related to the Bank's safeguard policies are taken into account during the
screening of micro-projects for potential impacts, and that the appropriate mitigation
measures can be adopted to address them.
4.0 BASELINE DATA
This Chapter provides key baseline information relevant to the proposed project sites and
gives a detailed assessment of Comoro's baseline features as they relate to the social fund
project. The Social Fund project is expected to intervene on all the three islands and
these interventions will be managed by Regional FADC offices in collaboration with the
Comite de Pilotage, thus the need to give detailed information of the country as a whole.
The Islamic Federation of Comoros is an archipelago consisting of three islands, the
largest being Grand Comore, then Anjouan and Moheli. Formerly a French colony, the
fourth island, Mayotte, still remains a department of France.
GNP per capita was estimated at US$414 in 2002, down from about US$520 in the late
1980s.
4.2.1 Physical Environment
The islands are located in the Mozambique Channel, about two-thirds of the way between
northern Madagascar and northern Mozambique. The islands are of volcanic origin and
are mountainous with Grand Comore, the youngest of the islands and closest to mainland
Africa, still housing a massive active volcano. The summit of the volcano Kartala is also
the highest point on the islands, measuring 2361 m (7746 ft) above sea level. Seismic
activity has increased dramatically since 2000 and experts are concerned that a very
violent eruption may occur in the near future.
4.2.2 Climate
The Comoros climate is tropical with a monsoon season from November to April. The
range of annual rainfall is from 109 to 551 cm (43 to 217 in) and there are frequent
cyclones.
There are approximately 2000 endemic plant species in Comoros and several species of
marine life native to Comoros, including two species of sea turtles. Widespread
conversion of forest to agricultural land and poaching of sea turtles has left many of the
endemic species severely threatened while others have already gone extinct.
Conservation of the remaining forested areas must be a priority for the conservation of
13



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
endemic species. Nonetheless, there are only two protected park areas, both on the island
of Moheli. There is a national park and a marine park funded by a UNDP-GEF grant.
Comoros is a member of many regional and international organizations and is a signatory
to many international agreements on the environment that address: Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, and Wetlands.
The most pressing environment issues and cause for concern are deforestation, soil
erosion, coastal and beach erosion, and solid and liquid waste management.
4.3 SOCIO ECONOMIC ENVIORNMENT
4.3.1 Population and Migration
The estimated population of the three islands as of July 2000 was over 550,000 people of
which approximately 50% live in Grand Comore, 42% in Anjouan and 8% in Moheli. A
fourth island of the archipelago, Mayotte, has remained under French sovereignty.
Covering an area of only 2,336 km, Comoros has a very high population density, with the
island of Anjouan being the most populated.
In recent decades the population was increased by the forced evacuation of Comorians
from Madagascar and Zanzibar. These peoples resettled in the Comoros adding to an
already difficult situation. Comorians can be found living in many parts of the world but
most of the emigrants are in Europe or in Kenya and Zanzibar along the East African
coast. There are an estimated 60,000 Comorians or people of Comorian descent living in
France today.
The present population increase is an estimated 3.5% per year with an annual birth rate of
47 births per 1,000 and an annual death rate of 12 deaths per 1,000. The most recent
estimate of the total fertility rate is 6.8 children born per woman. Life expectancy at birth
is 54 years for males and 59 years for females.
The inhabitants are a blend of various peoples of the Indian Ocean littoral. African,
Malagasy, and Arabic features are clearly evident. Maritime commerce before entry of
Europeans into the Indian Ocean brought Comorians into contact with peoples from
southern Africa to Southeast Asia. Since the end of the fifteenth century European
influence has also impacted upon Comorian life.
4.3.2 National Economy
In 2001, per capita GDP was US$380, the same as in 1982, which makes Comoros one of
the poorest nations in the world and is ranked number 168. The country's poor economic
performance has been due to a conglomeration of issues, chief among them is the
continued political disturbances. National Comorian politics have been characterized by
14



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
rapid changes of direction and numerous coups with intervention of foreign mercenaries,
all contributing to an instability that has not allowed strong institutions to emerge. The
lack of government commitment toward socio-economic development has lead to
widespread disillusion with the state.
Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy, employing over 80% of the
work force and accounting for almost 100% of exports. Two agricultural zones are
generally defined: the coastal area, which ranges in elevation from sea level to 400
meters and which supports cash crops such as vanilla, ylang-ylang, and cloves; and the
highlands, which support cultivation of crops for domestic consumption, such as cassava,
bananas, rain rice, and sweet potatoes. As the population increased, food grown for
domestic use met fewer and fewer of Cormorians' needs. The republic imports virtually
all its meat and vegetables; rice imports alone often account for up to 30 percent of the
value of all imports. France is Comoros' largest trading partner.
4.3.3 Public Health
Life expectancy stands at 60 years and the infant mortality rate is 76 per 1000 births.
High rates of malnutrition among children, such as the 43 % rate of chronic moderate
malnutrition among children less than two years old, and its effect on resistance to
infectious diseases indicate that the mortality rate will continue to be high. The crude
birthrate is 48 per 1,000 and the crude death rate, 12 per 1,000.
Malaria is ubiquitous in the islands, with 80 to 90 percent of the population said to be
affected by the disease. Other prevalent maladies included tuberculosis, leprosy, and
parasitic diseases. Despite improvements in life expectancy, infant mortality, and the
number of physicians, the overall quality of care remains poor. About 80 percent of the
population lives within one hour's walk of a health facility, usually headed by a trained
nurse, but paramedical staff are in short supply and many health facilities are in poor
condition. Some international medical aid has been provided, mostly by France and the
World Health Organization (WHO).
4.3.4 Political History and Governance
In 1978 the Comoros was proclaimed a federal Islamic republic; shortly thereafter, a one-
party state was formed under President Ahmed Abdullah Abdurrahman. After his
assassination in 1989, SaYd Mohamed Djohar became interim president and subsequently
won election in a multiparty contest. He survived an impeachment attempt in 1991 and
several coup attempts. In 1996 Mohamed Taki Abdulkarim was elected president. In
1997 rebels took control of the islands of Anjouan and Moheli, declaring their secession
and desire to return to French rule. In 1999 the islands were granted greater autonomy.
Following a coup in Apr. 1999, Col. Azali Assoumani assumed the Comorian presidency.
Anjouan voted (2000) for independence, but in 2001 forces favoring reuniting with the
Comoros seized power there, and a Comorian referendum approved additional autonomy
for the three islands. Azali resigned in 2002 prior to new elections, and Prime Minister
Hamada Madi became interim president. After two disputed elections, Azali was
declared president in May 2002.
15



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
4.3.5 Religion and Education
Comoros is a Federal Islamic Republic, and officially the population is 100% Muslim.
As Sunni Muslims, the Comorians follow religious observances conscientiously and
strictly adhere to religious orthodoxy. During the period of colonization, the French did
not attempt to supplant Islamic customs and practices and were careful to respect the
precedents of Islamic law. Hundreds of mosques dot the islands.
Practically all children attend Quranic school for two or three years, starting around age
five; there they learn the rudiments of the Islamic faith and some classical Arabic. When
rural children attend these schools, they sometimes move away from home and help the
teacher work his land.
France established a system of primary and secondary schools based on the French
model, which remains largely in place. Comoran law requires all children to complete
eight years of schooling between the ages of seven and fifteen. Comoros has no
university. Those desiring higher education must study abroad; a "brain drain" has
resulted because few university graduates are willing to return to the islands. Teacher
training and other specialized courses are available at the M'Vouni School for Higher
Education, in operation since 1981 at a site near Moroni.
As elsewhere in Comoran society, political instability has taken a toll on the education
system. Routinely announced reductions in force among the civil service, often made in
response to international pressure for fiscal reform, sometimes result in teacher strikes.
When civil service cutbacks result in canceled classes or examinations, students have at
times taken to the streets in protest.
4.4 ACCESS to RESOURCES
4.4.1 Access to Land
Comoros' land tenure laws are archaic and contradictory and the tenure system is largely
governed by traditional and religious systems which are complex. The reason for this
complexity is due to a conglomeration of factors. There are three types of land tenure
system in Comoros, customary, Islamic, and French administrative. The French laws are
still on the books, though the islands have been independent since 1975, but the unwritten
customary and Islamic laws are the ones most commonly respected and practiced. At
present, there is no applicable Code Foncier addressing land holding, management
control, dispute processing, expropriation and resettlement, or valuation principles for
compensation. Comoros is clearly lacking in the needed regulatory and administrative
framework for issues related to land tenure. The best recommendation that can be made
within the framework of the RPF is to apply the World Bank policies until such time
when the country prepares its own consistent land laws.
4.4.2 Access to Potable Water
16



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
Social Funds I and II have been very successful in providing access to water to the
majority of the population. From 1996 to 2001 the access to water went from 76% of the
population to 92%. Nonetheless, as deforestation continues, both because of increased
population density helped by a young and fertile population, and because of
unsustainably heavy use of wood for the production of ylang-ylang, the rivers continue to
dry up on Anjouan and Moheli and water grows scarcer.
4.4.3 Access to Capital
The rural people of Comoros have the lowest access to capital and no access to financial
services. The economy of the poor and vulnerable groups of the islands particularly in
Moheli and Anjouan remain largely non-liquid due primarily to the absence of financial
services and the lack of micro-credit organizations. For this particular reason, the
proposed project toils with the idea of creating a micro-credit component to be managed
by the FADC. This is a move in the right direction but with the lack of financial
management capacity within the FADC, coupled with the fact that social funds are not
usually designed to handle micro-credits, the Bank is skeptical. In my view and in the
spirit of enhancing the investment and revenue earning capability of these poor and
vulnerable communities, FADC's capacity can be built to take on this challenge. It is so
far the most credible institution working with communities and which enjoys community
trust. While providing collateral may be the main stumbling block, communal trust can
be a way forward in testing the resolve of these groups in taking their destinies in their
own hands.
On the three islands, there are several and extremely important linkages between
livelihoods and environmental resources, which are relevant to rural areas on all three
islands. These are outlined below.
Exploitation of local vegetation
Wood har-vesting
The forest cover in Comoros is seriously affected because wood is used for several
purposes, the main one being a source of energy, building material and most importantly
for distilling ylang-ylang for export. Wood represents an extremely high percentage of
the domestic energy consumed on all the islands and the annual loss of wooded surfaces
in Comoros if continued unabated will lead to severe erosion of fragile mountain slopes.
Bushfires
Fire is used for the following in Comoros: (i) clearing the fields; (ii) hunting; (iii)
improving visibility; (iv) accelerating the re-growth of perenlial grasses; and (v)
customary rituals. Fire impoverishes the soil and reduces its productivity, by causing the
loss of certain nutrients (nitrogen, sulfur), and organic matter. More than 75% of fires
occur between October and December.
17



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
Unsustainablefarmiing practices
Unsustainable farming in Comoros, particularly in the coconut and banana fanns on the
hill slopes, soil degradation and de-vegetation and serious erosion has become major
enviromnental issues. Eroded sites have been protected by external species which due to
their dispersal systems and the lack of predators to control their expansion are rapidly
competing with the indigenous plant spices. In some areas the rapid expansion of acacia
with its effective dispersal system has led to significant impoverishment of the soils
which in turn has reduced the agricultural productivity and in some areas led to zero
productivity. Also, very important is the fact that the introduction of foreign species
contributes to the loss of biodiversity.
Soil Erosion
Coastal zone erosion is a serous and real problem in Comoros which has led the
communities to invest heavily in coastal zone protection through dykes and building of
walls to protect the intrusion.
5.0   DESCRIPTION of the POLICY, REGULATORY, LEGISLATIVE, and
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORKS
5.1   Legislative and Policy Framework
The legislative and policy framework for environmental protection and management is
extremely weak in Comoros. There is a National Environmental Policy that has been
articulated, but most of the legislation outlined in the policy is yet to be written and/or
made operational. It speaks of sectoral policies that require definition, namely a land
tenure system, a water policy and a policy on waste management. It is of critical
importance to the sustainable development of all three islands that this legislation is
passed and applied to all future projects with the Bank and other lenders. Even where
there is legislation already in place, there is a grave lack of capacity and funds to
implement this legislation.
As of April 19, 20001, a decree specific to environmental assessment was put in place,
but the Director of Environment complained that there has yet to be any enforcement of
the decree. With Bank requirements in mind for those sub-projects which require
additional environmental work, as determined under the screening and review process,
the building of the capacity at the national, regional, and local level is called for. This is
the only way to allow the national enviromnental agency to exercise its mandate. This
will also ensure that sub-projects that may have potentially significant impacts and
require more detailed study, receive national, regional, and local level attention and
approval.
There are several Decret and Arrete relating to protection of biodiversity, including
Arr6te N 01/3]/MPE/CAB portant protection des especes defaune etflore sauvages des
Conmores du 14/05/2001, and Arr6te N 01/32/MPE/CAB portant adoption de la Strategie
Nationale et du Plan d 'Action pour la Conservation de la Diversite Biologique de
14/05/2001. The creation of the Parc Marin in Moheli is an extremely promising model,
18



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES           CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
which built on these Arretes to develop an organization that protects the marine life,
especially les tortues marins, from fishing and poaching, the coral reefs, vegetation and
surrounding forest. The Decret N 01-053/CE creating the Park mandates a Conservator
to a committee to manage the Park, forbids any industrial or commercial activity with the
limits of the Park, plans for eco-tourism, and strictly enforceable penalties for violation of
the rules.
Land Tenure and Ownership
Conceming land take, at present, based on the field visits and consultations and with
beneficiaries, it is clear that there will not be any land take, loss of economic activities,
and/or relocation.
5.2 Administrative Structures and Responsibilities
FADC is made up of the following groups:
1- Le Comite Central de Coordination (CCC)
2- Le Secrtariat Executif National (SEN)
3- Les Comites Regionaux (CR)
4- Les Bureaux Regionaux denommes Secretariats Ex6cutifs Regionaux (SER)
5- Les Comites de Pilotage (CP)
Table 5.2        FADC Administration
Unit                           Responsibility
National Level
Le Comite Central de Coordination  .   Comprised of representatives of relevant Ministries and civil
(CCC)                                  society,
*   Adopts the Manual of Procedures
*   Charged with financial management and definition of overall
policy
*   Review quarterly reports from FADC-SEN and FADC-SER
FADC National                      a   etudier et proposer au CCC les elements de la politique et de la
strategie de financement des projets de developpement
communautaire sur la base des orientations arretees par le CCC
conformrment aux objectifs d'ensemble de l'Etat
*   apporter un appui au montage des dossiers de sous-projets
exigeant des competences techniques qui ne se trouvent pas au
niveau regional
*   contribuer a l'evaluation a posteriori des sous-projets et des
interventions du FADCE
*   pr6parer le budget et assurer la gestion administrative et
financiere du FADC
*   requerir toute assistance expatriee ou etude specifique
necessa re ' la bonne r.alisati...des.pro.ets
Regionial Level
19



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES                   CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
Unit                               Responsibility
Comites Regionaux                       .    elaborer et proposer une politique et une strategie de
developpement communautaire regional
*    collaborer avec les SER en vue d'assurer la liaison necessaire
avec les communautes locales pour d6finir les projets repondant
aux besoins communautaires des populations les plus desheritees
*    servir de premier recours au personnel des SER ainsi qu'aux
comites de pilotage pour regler d'eventuels diff6rends.
•    diriger les assemblees generales des Comites de pilotage
.................................................................................................................................................... ......... .......... .... ..... ................................................ ............. .................. .................................... ........ ..................... .................
FADC-SER                                •    animer la campagne de sensibilisation, d'information et de
(Les Secr6tariats Executifs                  formation au niveau des communautes de la region
R6gionaux)                              .    etudier et proposer aux CR les elements d'une strategie de
financement des projets de developpement communautaire
*    foumir un appui technique et financier aux communautes dans la
preparation et lexecution des sous-projets
*    Organiser les assemblees g6nerales des comites de pilotage
*    assurer le suivi des sous-projets realises et veiller au respect
des conventions de financement par les communautes
beneficiaires
*    Responsible for reviewing sub-project applications for
technical and financial feasibility before submission for
.                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.a................ ppvafo finacig
.................................................... ............................. .............. ..................................................................... ................................. ......  ....... . . .......................................................   ........................
Local Level
Comite de pilotage                      .    identifier, en liaison avec le SER, les sous-projets d'int6r&t
public
*    sensibiliser les communaut6s sur limportance des projets
identifies
*    preparer, en collaboration avec le SER, un projet de budget
couvrant les depenses d'execution et d'entretien, et definir les
differentes contributions de la population interessee;
*    obtenir un engagement ferme de la ou des conimunautes
villageoises sur la participation effective de celles-ci a
lVex6cution et au suivi des travaux d6coulant des projets agrees
par le FADC
*    mobiliser les ressources locales tant humaines, materielles que
financieres n6cessaires a l'execution des sous-projets, et de
rendre compte p6riodiquemnent au SER et a la communaute sur
l'etat d'avancement des travaux
5.2 INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
At the national level, the principal institutional agency dealing with the environment in
Comoros is the Ministry of Rural Development, Fisheries and the Environment. The
Department of Environment was established as an autonomous institution by the Federal
Government of Comoros in 1997 and has three regional offices on each island, with the
main office in Moroni. The Department has a staff of four technicians with no staff in the
regional offices. Its mandate includes the follow tasks: prepare and implement
environmental policy and laws, recently institute a system                for EA, set environmental
standards, combat erosion and deforestation, take regulatory action to protect the
environment, enhance environmental awareness, implement international treaties, and
provide support to the three islands.
20



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
The Comite Central de Coordination (CCC) of the executing agency, FADC, acts as a
Board of Directors setting the overall policies of FADC. It is composed of 15 members
who are appointed by decree: 7 representatives from the Government Ministries and 8
representatives from associations (2 from each island and 2 from national associations).
It meets twice a year. Its responsibilities are to set FADC policies, approve the manual of
procedures and annual work programs and budgets, decide on the level of community
contribution to the cost of the sub-projects, analyze and audit reports, and appoint the
National Executive Director and Regional Executive Directors.
The Comites Regionals (CR) are in place in each of the three islands. They are
composed of eight members: 2 representatives from the regional directorates of
Government Ministries and 6 other non-governmental members representing regional
associations and chosen on the basis of their qualifications and their knowledge of
communities. Their primary responsibilities are to endorse the annual work programs
proposed by the Regional Secretariats (FADC-SER), approve (through a regional project
sub-committee) all grants of less than CF 15 million, and submit to the Directeur Executif
National of FADC for decision of proposals for grants equal to or greater than CF 15
million.
A Presidential Ordinance established FADC, an "organization in the public interest with
administrative and financial autonomy", on January 6, 1993. A Presidential Decree of
April 13, 1993 defines its organization and management. The Secretariat Executif
National (SEN) and the three Secretariat Executif Regional (SER) are the
administrative/executing entities, which deal with the day-to-day operations of the FADC
on the three islands. FADC has clear operating procedures, which are defined in a
Manual of Procedures. This manual contains the criteria and procedures for identifying,
preparing, appraising, selecting, and implementing sub-projects. FADC will review
community proposals against the criteria defined in the Manual of Procedures, including
community participation, impact, and priorities. Once approved by FADC, the local
communities or beneficiaries will implement the sub-projects, which is in most cases by
the Comite de Pilotage. These village committees work with FADC-SER in identifying,
preparing and implementing sub-projects. In accordance with the contracts that they
enter into with FADC, the village committees are also responsible for mobilizing
communities to provide labor, materials, and cash for the sub-projects.
Given the lack of capacity at the national or regional level within the Department of
Environment, and the demonstrated ability to successfully manage both previous Social
Funds, FADC will remain the executing agency for the third phase of the project. The
successful application of the environmental and social assessment process (contained in
this ESMF) at the level of the sub-projects will identify adverse environmental and social
impacts as they relate to sub-project activities.  To mitigate the project impacts
effectively, the proposed institutional arrangements provide for environmental and social
assessment capacity building for the CPs at the local level, and environmental and social
oversight capacity building at the regional and central levels for FADC-SER and FADC-
SEN.
21



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
Functions of Key Institutions for the Successful Implementation of this ESMF;
1) Comites de Pilotage: Consistent with OP 4.01 Environment Assessment, the CPs will
screen their sub-projects for environmental and social impacts at the time of
identification. They will apply the environmental and social assessment process for sub-
projects outlined in this Framework document, and thus prepare their sub-project
proposals consistent with the provisions of this ESMF.
The key elements for successful sub-project implementation by the CPs are:
*  Capacity to manage the environmental and social management process for
sub-projects: To enable CPs to apply the environmental assessment process for
sub-projects effectively, they will require technical support. At the sub-project
identification stage, this technical support would be provided through FADC-SER
and an environmental and social specialist who would be responsible for assisting
the CPs in the preparation of sub-project proposals, including resettlement plans
(if needed) and environmental and social screening and preparation of mitigation
measures as necessary and environmental and social assessment reports consistent
with this framework document.
*  Capacity to manage potential social impacts of sub-projects: To ensure that
social impacts of sub-projects are addressed appropriately, a separate
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) has been prepared. It outlines the
principles to be applied in the event that negative social impacts arise due to the
need for land acquisition, or access to economic resources is loss, denied or
restricted to sub-project activities. CPs will be assisted by a social specialist to
prepare the resettlement plans required by the RPF document.
FADC will support the CPs to avail them of expert advice when needed by hiring a
qualified environmental and social assessment specialist to assist and work with them to
carry out their tasks. Following training and assistance, the ability of the CPs to conduct
environmental and social screening and to prepare appropriate mitigation measures for
sub-projects will be greatly enhanced and will not only raise the environmental awareness
among CPs, but will also ensure that the sub-projects are environmentally and socially
sustainable. Over time, the CPs will develop the capacity to screen potential investments
for environrmental and social impacts and to prepare and implement simple enviromnental
mitigation measures independently.
FADC-SER will also be responsible for the monitoring of (i) the environmental and
social assessment work to be carried out by the CPs assisted; (ii) environmental and
social monitoring of sub-projects; and (iii) overseeing the implementation of resettlement
plans.
Capacity of FADC will be enhanced by environmental and social assessment specialists
who will be hired by FADC to work with FADC at the national and regional level to
ensure that they carry out their role effectively.
22



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
Finally, the recently adopted Infrastructure, Water and Enviro1nmenlt Project will be
administered by FADC and finances will be channelled through the FADC which works
at the national, regional and community levels.
Approval of sub-project EAs by the Department of Environment
To ensure that the Environment Department is given the recognition and role it deserves
in the country's overall development process and to also ensure that it exercises its
mandate, it should be part of the approval process of any sub-project with potential
impacts.
6.0    GUIDANCE ON POTENTIAL IMPACTS
This section of the report presents guidance on the environmental and social impacts of
the Social Fund III project, and potential impacts of the anticipated sub-project activities.
The main focus of the guidance is to provide a set of procedures for the FADC staff who
will be charged with the responsibility of implementing the Environmental and Social
Management Framework.
We discuss both the positive and negative impacts of both programs. We begin with
conclusions on the overall impacts and specific impacts are described in greater detail for
community sub- projects to be funded through the FADC.
6.1 Overall Environmental and Social Impacts
Environmental and social sustainability are key to sustainable rural development, natural
resources management and conservation and poverty alleviation, particularly in countries
like Comoros with its fragile ecological system as well as instable and erratic political
climate. Lessons learned from Social Fund projects I and II and from the recently
inherited Infrastructure, Water and Environment project demonstrate that the lack of
proper environmental management and lack of inclusion of the social aspects have led to
serious environmental and social impacts which are costly to rehabilitate if reversible at
all. .It is therefore important to recognize that environmental and social inclusion at the
design stages of projects is fundamental to the success of the social fund project.
Discussions with different groups and during the workshops which were held on all three
islands indicate that they are fully appreciative of this important injection into the
process.
6.2 Potential Positive Impacts
The overall positive environmental and social impacts predicted under the Social Fund
project are based on several facts key among them are;
23



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
(i)   the National Executing Agency and its partners have now recognized that
inclusion of environumental and social management are fundamental to the
success and sustainability of the sub-projects;
(ii)  this notion will help strengthen the traditional systems of environmental and
social management;
(iii)  local institutional strengthening and empowernent can be achieved through
improved understanding and use of tools and mechanisms for environmental
(iv)  management and social impact assessment and participatory community
development
The Social Fund III project has the potential to make a significant contribution to
Comoros' policy to protect the natural resource base which the country's population
depends on for their livelihood while also reducing poverty in rural Comoros. At this
time, the overall environmental and social impacts are difficult to predict since they are
demand driven. Nonetheless, considering the susceptibility of the country's ecological
system and the potential needs of the rural population, it is likely to predict the potential
impacts however challenging they may be. Based on this assumption, the potential
positive impacts of the project are likely to be:
(a) Improved land tenure security in a country where formal land tenure system does
not exist and the traditional and religious system is complex and difficult to apply;
(b) Reduction of soil erosion and gully erosion particularly on steep hill sites;
(c) Removal of threats and barriers to integrated ecosystem management and in
particular to conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity in natural
habitats such as marine and forest parks, tortoises, marine mammals, and other
ecologically important species in Comoros;
(d) Contribution to the decentralization process through community management of
natural resources and integrated ecosystem management and decision making
process;
(e) Reduction in land degradation and coastal erosion mitigation benefits expected to
arise from improvements in coastal zone management;
(f) Building partnerships between and among rural communities and with
intemational and public/private institutions dealing with natural resources
management for shared resources conservation, knowledge sharing and
management;
(g) Provision of opportunities through training and capacity building to local
communities for integrated enviromnental and social management.
6.3 Potential Negative Impacts
The overall potential negative environmental and social impacts predicted under the
social fund project are based on the following reasons:
(a) Comorian life in general and rural life in particular is complex and this is also
coupled with the fact that rural livelihoods vary from one island to the other and
so does the level of complexity vis-a-vis the environment.
24



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
(b) It is recognized from this study that there is a significant lack of both human and
institutional capacity at all levels of the system to be able to carry out
environmental and social screening of the anticipated sub-projects. This may
increase the existing environmental and social impacts within the areas of
intervention;
(c) Differential impacts of training and level of investment may result in some
vulnerable groups relying to a greater extent than their wealthier counterparts on
unsustainable use of natural resources;
(d) Introduced land tenure systems and systems of govemance versus traditional
/religious systems may create conflict, or contradictions may result in
unsustainable agricultural and natural resources management practices and for a
fragile ecosystem as Comoros that can have severe consequences on the
environment and social fabric;
(e) Rising population pressures, a deteriorating resource base, climate change and
agricultural extensification can lead to an increase in land-related conflicts on all
the three islands.
The Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy
Framework commissioned by the Government of Comoros have taken these potential
risks carefully into consideration both at the preparation and design of the third Social
Fund project, especially considering the experience gained through the implementation of
the first and second Social Fund projects.
6.4 Localized Negative Impacts
Most of the sub-projects planned under the proposed social development fund will be
small scale, therefore the significance of the direct negative social and environmental
impacts are likely to be minimal. This is especially the case in comparison with the
recently adopted Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project which concentrated on
enlarging the national roads networks on the islands. Despite the potential small size of
the sub-projects, they could have significant environmental impacts particularly due to
the fragility of the ecosystems like the slopes of the hills of Anjouan and Moheli as well
as those of Grande Comore. Experience in high land development has shown that unless
highland sites are properly selected and any necessary infrastructure, improvements and
protection measures are well designed and constructed, this can lead to serious impacts.
The national roads network in Comoros is experiencing serious problems and the cost of
rehabilitation by the Bank and other donors is a continuous problems. Also, developing
the infrastructure can and has created additional population pressure on fragile
ecosystems. Intensification of agriculture on all three islands can also result in
decreasing existing biodiversity and loss of ecologically, economically and scientifically
important species.
6.5 Cumulative Impacts of Sub-Projects
Experience from the previous social fund projects in Comoros, i.e. Social Funds I and II,
25



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
have shown that minimal as the environmental and social impacts of some sub-projects
may be, together they can create bigger problems on the natural resource base. Examples
of such impacts which have been noticed on the islands are:
*  Forest clearing for extensive agricultural practices which due to the sloppy nature
of the terrain leads to depletion of the soil fertility;
*  Deforestation due to the exploitation of the forest resources for distillation of
ylang-ylang, construction and for fuel wood;
*  Impacts on ground water resources due to the construction of numerous wells;
*  Waste and dumping sites due to the inappropriate disposal of waste materials
during and after construction.
6.6 Solid Waste Disposal
Indiscriminate disposal of solid waste in general and contaminated waste in particular is
of great concern to the project. Water courses in Comoros may be vulnerable to pollution
due to increased solid waste, and disposal of waste water, in association with
pharmaceuticals, animal drugs and medical waste, or construction of infrastructure
without adequate sanitation facilities. A number of clinics will be constructed and
without the requisite medical waste disposal methods human and animal health will be at
risk. Water resource and land resource contamination is likely to happen. As Medical
Waste Management Planning has not yet been introduced to the Government of Comoros
as is the case with most client countries which are part of the HIV/AIDS Program, it is
necessary to help prepare a small medical waste management checklist/plan to handle
such aspects as:
* Laboratory waste-specimen or microbiologic cultures, stocks or infectious agents,
live and attenuated vaccines, ands culture mediums;
*  Blood or body fluids, liquid blood elements or other regulated body fluids, or
articles contaminated with blood or body fluids;
*  Sharps items such as syringes, needles, blades, broken glass;
*  Contaminated animals - animals carcasses, body parts, bedding materials;
Surgical specimens - human or animal parts or tissues removed surgically or by
autopsy;
* Isolation waste.
6.7 Pest Management and Chemical Use
As Comoros' economy is predominantly dependent on agriculture and agricultural
activities albeit small may result in intensification of crop production. Also certain
livestock activities like tick dips and other agricultural practices may lead to the increased
use of agricultural chemicals to promote growth. It is important that appropriate
26



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAI,
(FADC III)
planming, design and management be adopted for the proper and judicious handling of
agricultural chemicals to avoid potential negative environmental and human health
impacts. While the anticipated sub-projects are mostly social infrastructure, small
agricultural activities may occur and as such, putting in place guidelines to assist in pest
management planning is important. The introduction of local pest management plans is
therefore encouraged during the implementation of the social fund project. Such a plan
should cover areas such as:
* proper use of agricultural chemicals;
* prevention of chemical runoff into surface water sources to avoid negative
impacts on the aquatic environment;
* proper use and handling of chemicals to avoid contamination of crops, soils, and
water bodies;
*  proper storage and handling to avoid adverse health impacts or rural farmers;
*  proper policing to ensure that banned chemicals are not distributed to fanning
communities.
6.8 Inaccessibility and the Poor and Vulnerable Communities
The amount of anticipated infrastructure development in the Comoros Social Fund III
project is important in many aspects, principal among which is the urgent need to access
the poor and vulnerable groups. This may however not necessarily be the case as these
groups may not afford the required contributions to qualify for a sub-project. Such may
contribute to the inequitable distribution of resources and further marginalization of these
groups. The development of local development plans by FADC seeks to avoid this
potential for marginalization but the consistent participation of these vulnerable groups
can easily be limited by the mere fact that they are inaccessible and therefore
automatically isolated. The third social fund project team recognized these facts and
intends on introducing a method of inclusion of these vulnerable groups. The sliding
scale as it is called is meant to accommodate such groups irrespective of whether or not
they can afford to meet the financing requirements for sub-project approval. This method
will be further development during project appraisal and implementation. The project
team and the national executing agency FADC recognize that while it is critical for the
communities to receive guidance and support from the skilled facilitators of the FADC in
methods of comnmunity participation, project planning and management, it is equally
important that the Regional FADC offices and their counterpart Comites de Pilotage
continue to work with vulnerable communities to ensure that their concerns are taken into
consideration. Failing to do so will defeat the development objective of the project and
the World Bank's fundamental objective of poverty alleviation.
7.0   REPORTING and RESPONSIBILITIES for the ESMF/RPF
This chapter of the report sets out reporting systems and responsibilities of the executing
agency for implementation of the Enviromnental and Social Management Framework.
The section begins with details of issues that will be addressed by the ESMF, specific
next steps to be taken to ensure adherence to the recomnmendations of the ESMF
including:
27



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
The institutional arrangements for reporting and advice;
The Screening checklist for community micro-projects;
The Awareness Building Program;
The role of the Environment/Social Specialist and the TOR.
7.1 Key Principles and Proposed Actions
The ESMF has been prepared on the basis of the following principles:
In collaboration with the FADC National and members of the Comites de Pilotage, the
consultant sought to avoid considering environmental sustainability of the Social Fund
project in isolation. Instead we considered how sustainability can be ensured at the
community level and how the Social Fund III's contribution can be maximized.
The consultant recognized that it would be unproductive if the social fund project was to
focus solely on the environmental implications of the Social Fund Financed sub-projects
alone, without also creating partnerships with the island communities, with NGOs and
most importantly to encourage collaboration between the various CP on the same islands
as well as between islands.
Secondly, in accordance with the fact that there are natural separations between the three
islands, the consultant considered that the bulk of the environmental inputs to the social
fund project are required at the community level. At the village community level, there is
an opportunity to build on the close relationship of agriculture with environmental, social
and health groups, and improve awareness of the complexity of sustainable agricultural
livelihoods among all groups.
Third, while the ESMF proposes an elaborate system of screening for sub-project
activities, it also proposes that environmental and social considerations are fully
mainstreamed into the participatory process for identification, planning, implementation
and monitoring of sub-project activities.
The screening forms and checklist are therefore intended to be integrated fully into the
Project Implementation Manual of the FADC and the overall system of project
management.
7.2 Mainstreaming Environmental Management into the FADC Program
Environmental management and protection as earlier discussed is clearly one of the
weakest links on the agenda of the government of the Republic of Comoros. The
Environmental Policy and National Environmental Law are the basis for sectoral and
cross-sectoral coordination among ministries and line agencies in addressing
environmental concerns of the three island country. While this coordination exists on
paper, it is very weak in reality. There is also a clear indication in the review of the
institutional structure and on meeting with the Department of Environment that there are
no officers or offices on the different islands. The department itself is weak in both
human and institutional resources and this renders it poor in bringing the environmental
agenda to the forefront of the national development process.
28



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
8.0 BUILDING CAPACITY for ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
In discussions with the Executive Director of the FADC, the World Bank's
environmental adviser and the Task Team Leader, it was agreed that the first step in
building the human resources capacity for environmental management under the Social
Fund III Project is to identify the key players involved in the coordination and
implementation of the project. There are three levels of administration, namely National,
Regional, and Community. The ESMF of the Social Fund project will be coordinated by
the National FADC and the implementation of the project's screening process will be the
responsibility of the Regions and the CP. Environmlental inputs will be mainstreamed at
every level of the project thus the need to enhance the awareness of these key actors.
To achieve these objectives, the project will hire an environmental/social specialist with
clear Terms of Reference to advise and coordinate the implementation of the
Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Framework and
also to work closely with the Department of Environment and other partners in carrying
out the Awareness Building Program.
At the Regional level, the FADC regional offices will continue to work with the specialist
and communities to ensure that these aspects become part and parcel of the sub-project
identification process as well as the planning and implementation of these sub-projects.
Table 7.0 Identifying Focal Points for Capacity Building
Focal Point                       FADC Coordination
Recommendation                    Appoint an environmental specialist to
manage the ESMF
Administrative Representative     Position at FADC
* Action: To supervise the implementation of the ESMF and to monitor the
reporting of the project output in relation to the ESMF;
* To liaise with the relevant Government agencies at the National, Regional and
Community levels and particularly with the Department of Environment,
fisheries, forestry and water resources and other environmental bodies in the
country;
*  To Implement the Awareness Building Program as proposed in the PAD through
information dissemination, organizing training on the different islands,
workshops, and identifying institutional needs for environmental management.
The cost of hiring the specialist is to be priced as a local consultant under a fixed term
contract and the cost of the program is as indicated in the PAD.
29



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
7.1 Regional Level
At the Regional level the specialist should identify a focal point at each Committee de
Pilotage to support the community in implementing the Screening Process and approving
sub-projects. The focal point can either be an existing staff member from a regional
FADC or Government bureau with background in the environment, i.e. soils, water, and
biodiversity conservation, or, if one is not available, then an individual with such
expertise can be identified and given short term assignments to assist the specialist as and
when required.
The role of the Regional Focal Point will be to:
*  assist FADC-SER in implementing the sub-projects' environmental and social
screening process;
*  To provide technical guidance and advice in environmental and social issues as it
relates to sub-project location and design;
* To liaise with communities, government offices on the islands, and with NGOs.
7.2 Community Level
At the Community level it should be ensured that in each CP/CGL, there is a focal point
to support communities in screening and approving sub-projects. The FP works closely
with the FADC environmental specialist and with the Regional Focal Point to assist their
CP/CGL in using the screening forms to assess the potential impacts of proposed projects
and to liaise with Regional FADC Officers and Regional Focal Point for guidance and
technical assistance on environmental and social matters.
7.3 The Awareness Building Program for Environmental Management
In recognizing the apparent weakness and poor understanding of environmental issues
and their relations to development in Comoros, the Awareness Building Program
proposed in this report will attempt to address the following on the three islands:
*  Sensitization among the Regional staff of the FADC and members of the CP as
they relate to agricultural and other economic activities and their coping strategies
towards environmental degradation in Comoros;
*  Appreciation of the unpredictable, complex and dynamic nature of their
livelihoods as they relate to the complex and fragile ecological systems as well as
the weakness of the environmental agenda in the country;
*  To help minimize the potential damage of the anticipated activities of the
proposed social fund project, sensitization of the key stakeholders will be required
in advance of the commencement of the project activities on the ground;
*  Awareness building among the key players and Community leaders on how to
integrate local traditional knowledge with modem environmental management
practices particularly in relation to the sub-projects;
*  Training of the FADC staff and community leaders on the use of the screening
process and reporting mechanisms for sub-project approval as set out in the
screening forms. This type of training should be mainstreamed into the training
that will be required for the smooth operation of the sub-project approval process.
30



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
As is already proposed, the hired environmental specialist will draw up a training
plan that will include the training of Regional FADC officers and Community
leaders. They in turn will be training members of their committees.
* Collaboration between members of the different CP, from the different islands
(sharing experience among regions) particularly those involved in sub-project
identification, natural resources management, and the screening process. This
portion of the program will involve training in the use of environmental and social
guidelines in identifying and costing mitigation measures as well as advising on
social safeguard issues.
As there is a great of traditional knowledge that has been applied over the years through
trial and error, a key focus of the training and sensitization program should be on
integrating this knowledge in enviromnental management system of the proposed project.
7.4 Integrating Tradition Knowledge in the Environmental Management Framework
Traditional knowledge as it relates to Environmental Management will be taken into
consideration in the development of the Awareness Building Program of the proposed
Social Fund project as follows:
(a) As the traditional land tenure system in Comoros is very complex, its
understanding and appreciation is fundamental to the location of the anticipated
sub-projects, particularly as they relate to land acquisition, land take, and loss of
economic activities. Its importance in relation to the World Bank's safeguard
policy on Involuntary Resettlement cannot be overemphasized.
(b) Traditional land rehabilitation for agricultural development in an ecosystem that is
fragile and complex is key to the sustainability of this sector as well as the
concomitant infrastructure development that goes with it. The Comorians have
over the years applied different conservation and rehabilitation methods albeit
insufficient and have to entertain new and more effective methods if their systems
are to be sustainable.
(c) Dependence on the forest cover for the distillation of ylang-ylang and the use of
wood for energy and building material need to be carefully looked into and
alternative methods introduced;
(d) As water is a major limiting factor in both domestic and agricultural practices, the
assessment of water resources and proper harnessing of these resources is critical
to the development of the country.
8.0 THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND SCREENING SYSTEM
The screening process as introduced in Annex 1 of this report is a compilation of the
methods that will be applied in screening and evaluating sub-projects for environmental
and social impacts.
The main ingredients of the process are outlined below:
31



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
(a) A basic enviromnental and social screening form for the members of the Cp to
complete when applying for sub-project financing.
(b) Basic environmental and social review form if there is the need for more detailed
environmental and social appraisal of the project is required.
(c) Content of such forms should be clearly spelled out in FADC's Project
Implementation Manual for community evaluation of projects following
completion.
(d) Format for lesson learning review of EIA by stakeholders in particular members
of the CP and other interested parties.
8.1 COSTS
The cost of implementing the Awareness Building Program as spelled out in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) is properly incorporated in the project design.
* The cost of the environmental training and sensitization program has been agreed
with the Borrower and the project team and will be addressed under the project
budget allocated for the entire Capacity Building component.
* Cost associated with the recruitment of an environmental /social specialist will
also be covered under the budget allocated for awareness building and training.
* Costs related to the mitigating of impacts associated with sub-projects financed
under the Social Fund are also allocated under the same budget, while the cost of
mitigating the impacts of the adopted roads, water and environment component
will be assessed and internalized as part of the overall project budget. This will
be discussed with the Borrower and the project TTL during Project Appraisal.
Other additional costs to the project are potential relocation and compensation plans
should any proposed sub-project lead to land take, loss of economic activities and/or
relocation. When this happens, the Bank's team together with the Borrower (FADC) will
determine the resources and budget needed to finance these plans.
Proposed Training Program                                          Duration
Environmental and Social assessment process                            5days
* Screening process
* Assignment of environmental categories
* Rationale for using Screening form and Environmental and Social Checklists
* Preparation of terms of reference for carrying out ESIA
* How to review and approve sub-project proposals
* The importance of public consultations in the EA process
* How to monitor project implementation
* Case studies
32



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
Environmental and Social policies and procedures                       3 days
* Review and discussion of Comoros' environmental policies, procedures, and
legislation
* Review and discussion of the Bank's safeguards policies
* Review of ESIA, Resettlement Plan
* Collaboration with institutions at the local, regional and union levels
Selected topics on environmental protection                            2 days
* Soil erosion
* Flood protection
* Waste disposal, including medical/veterinary waste, hazardous chemical wastes such as
pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, etc.
* Ground and Surface Water Management
* Deforestation
8.2 Implementing the ESMF
The project is planned to be appraised in November 2003 and it is recommended that the
following steps be taken to implement the Framework:
Immediately after project effectiveness, the Awareness Building Program will commence
at all three levels, i.e. National, Regional and Local levels. This will be carried out once
the specialist is recruited and is in place. The program will take place in the form of
workshops and seminars in environmental assessment, the use of the screening process
and training on filling the screening and review forms as well as the reporting forms.
By the second year of project implementation, the FADC and its partners would have
learnt from the first year projects to allow them to refine the screening process and
enviromnental and social review forms to better fit the types of sub-projects being
implemented. The environmental and social specialist would also be able to use this
experience to develop guidelines for the various types of sub-projects since by the second
year of project implementation a clear idea of the type of sub-projects being demanded by
the communities will emerge. It is also envisaged that by the second year of
implementation and based on the lessons learnt, the team should be able to establish a
monitoring and evaluation mechanism suitable for regular and efficient reporting.
9.0 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PLANNING, REVIEW AND CLEARING
PROCESS FOR SUB-PROJECTS
33



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
As stated earlier, at the time the Social Fund III project was being prepared, the sub-
projects were not identified. Consequently, specific information on numbers of sub-
projects, site location of sub-projects, land requirements, local communities, geo-physical
land features, nature, type and use of equipment/plant, etc. was not available. Therefore,
exact details and intensity of social and environmental impacts and their effective
mitigation cannot be determined during project preparation. This document referred to as
the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) is thus prepared to
establish the mechanism to determine and assess future potential adverse environmental
and social impacts of sub-projects that are to be identified and cleared based on a
community demand driven process described here below, and then to set out mitigation,
monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during implementation and operation of
the sub-projects to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them , or
reduce them to acceptable levels.
This section therefore, identifies and illustrates the specific steps involved in the
environmental and social assessment process leading towards the clearance and approval
of the EA process for sub-projects. The steps incorporate both, relevant Comoros
guidelines/requirements and the Bank's policy OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, and
on Involuntary Resettlement (the safeguard policies that apply for this project as
discussed earlier) and are;
(a).  The Comite de Pilotage will screen their own sub-projects to identify
environmental and social impacts using the screening form in Annex 1. In
a few cases the checklist may require that a sub-project conducts a sub-
project environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) for certain
types of impacts.
(b).  Then the implementers will introduce into the sub-project design the
required measures to mitigate impacts identified from use of the checklist
before submission of the sub-project for review and subsequent approval.
(c).  Review and clear the sub-projects by ensuring sub-project designs have
identified environmental and social impacts, mitigated these impacts and
have monitoring plans and institutional measures to be taken during
implementation and operation.
Using the screening form, revised enviromnental and social checklists and technical
assistance from service providers and information resources supported by FADC,
proposed sub-projects will be screened by their respective implementers, to identify any
potential adverse impacts/effects from sub-project activities.
Once impacts are identified the necessary mitigation measure would then be identified
from the checklist and then the sub-project would be designed to implement these
mitigation measures. For example, from a social standpoint if the screening form
identifies land acquisition needs that trigger OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement, then
the required mitigation measure would be to chose an alternative land site that does not
34



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
trigger this policy or, the implementer of the sub-project prepares a resettlement and
compensation plan consistent with the disclosed RPF.
From an environmental stand point, the screening form and checklist may identify
impacts from sub-project activities, such as contamination of ground water sources due to
inappropriate waste disposal. The mitigation measure may be to choose a site far away
from the water source so that chances of contamination are not possible and/or
incorporate appropriate waste disposal measures into the design such as channeling all
waste to a closed system that is periodically emptied and disposed of safely.
For some cases (a minority of cases) where the impacts from sub-project activities are
determined by use of the checklist to be severe or difficult to mitigate, the
recommendation may be that a sub-project ESIA be carried out following which the sub-
project would then be designed to incorporate the required mitigation measures.
ESIA will be required for sub-projects involving new roads, incorporating the use of
hazardous chemicals and/or managing solid, liquid or medical wastes and for any sub-
project costing overUS$100,000. See Annex 2 forprocedures for sub-projects requiring
ESIA.
Once the implementers have completed the screening of their sub-projects and designed
into them the necessary mitigation measures, sub-project proposals would then be sent to
the FADC-SER for review and to check for compliance with this EA process.
The completed screening forms and completed checklists must accompany the sub-
projects that are sent for review. If the screening form has any "Yes" entries, or evidently
unjustified "No" entries, the application would need to adequately explain and
demonstrate from its design that the issue has been managed to avoid unacceptable
adverse effects/impacts. If the application has satisfactorily addressed these issues it will
be recommended for approval to the respective approving body. For approved sub-
projects, the FADC-SER as reviewer will determine enviromnental and social approval
conditions the implementer must adhere to in the detailed planning, construction and
operation of the investment. These conditions may include, for example, such measures
as public involvement, siting or routing restrictions, construction and operation practices,
restoration of disturbed areas, the complete implementation of a plan for resettlement or
compensation for land acquisition and, construction supervision to ensure the approval
conditions are being followed.
If, however the sub-project application unsatisfactorily addresses these issues it may be
rejected out right or rejected with the requirement to carry out a sub-project ESIA in
cases where one was not done before or with specific recommendations such as to change
site, or re-design waste management, reduce air pollution, etc.
The rejected sub-project will then have to be re-designed and re-screened by the
implementer and then re-submitted for review. The revised application will then have to
be reviewed again and, if now acceptable, will be recommended for consideration for
35



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
approval. If it is not acceptable for the second time, it would be referred back to the
implementer for more work or denied clearance altogether.
Any proposed sub-projects that do not comply with the requirements of the Environment
Law 1997 of Comoros and the requirements of the World Bank Safeguards policies will
not be cleared for approval.
This process is designed to ensure that the environmental and social assessment process
is part of and conducted during the sub-project design process thereby ensuring that sub-
project activities are environmentally and socially sound and sustainable.
Environmental Management Plan (EMP): sub-project proposals must contain as part
of the sub-project proposal an EMP that will consist of a set of mitigation measures,
monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and
operation of the sub-projects to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts,
offset them or reduce them to acceptable levels. The EMP should also include the actions
needed to implement these measures, including the following features:
Mitigation: Based on the environmental and social impacts identified from
use of the checklists, the EMP should describe with technical details each
mitigation measure, together with designs, equipment descriptions and
operating procedures as appropriate.
Monitoring: Environmental and social monitoring during the implementation
of the sub-projects, in order to measure the success of the mitigation
measures. The EMP should include monitoring objectives that specify the
type of monitoring activities that will be linked to the mitigation measures.
Specifically, the monitoring section of the EMP provides:
* A specific description and technical details of monitoring measures that
include the parameters to be measured, the methods to be used, sampling
locations, frequency of measurements, detection limits (where
appropriate), and definition of thresholds that will signal the need for
corrective actions, e.g. the need for on site construction supervision.
* Monitoring and reporting procedures to ensure early detection of
conditions that necessitate particular mitigation measures and to furmish
information on the progress and results of mitigation, e.g. by annual audits
and surveys to monitor overall effectiveness of the ESMF.
The EMP should also provide a specific description of institutional arrangements, i.e.
who is responsible for carrying out the mitigating and monitoring measures (for
operation, supervision, enforcement, monitoring of implementation, remedial action,
financing, reporting and staff training.)
Additionally, the EMP should include an estimate of the costs of the measures and
activities recommended so that the FADC can budget the necessary funds. The mitigation
36



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
and monitoring measures recommended in the EMP should be developed in consultation
with all affected groups to include their concerns and views in the design of the EMP.
Public Consultations: Public consultations are critical in preparing an effective and
sustainable sub-project. The first step is to hold public consultations with the local
communities and all other interested /affected parties. These consultations should identify
key issues and determine how the concerns of all parties will be addressed in the terms of
reference of the design of sub-project activities. To facilitate meaningful consultations,
the local governments through their implementers will provide all relevant material and
information concerning the sub-projects in a timely manner prior to the consultation, in a
form and language that are understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted.
Depending on the public interest in the potential impacts of the sub-projects, a public
hearing may be requested to better convey concerns. Once the sub-project has been
reviewed and cleared by FADC-SER, the implementers will inform the public about the
results of the review. This approach would be consistent with the Bank's OP 4.01
Environmental Assessment as well as Comoros' efforts to enhance its participatory
planning process.
37



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
Annex 1     ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SCREENING FORM
The Environmental and Social Screening Form (ESSF) has been designed to assist in the
evaluation of sub-components of the Social Fund III in Comoros. The form is designed
to place information in the hands of implementers and reviewers (FADC and CPs) so that
impacts and their mitigation measures, if any, can be identified and/or that requirements
for further environmental analysis are determined.
The ESSF contains information that will allow reviewers to determine the
characterization of the prevailing local biophysical and social environment with the aim
to assess the potential sub-project impacts on it. The ESSF will also identify potential
socio-economic impacts that will require mitigation measures and or resettlement and
compensation.
Name of Sub-project:
Development Sector of Sub-project:
Name of Sub-project Execution Organization:
Name of District where is to be implemented:
Name of Local Government:
Name of Approving Authority:
Name, job title, and contact details for the person who is responsible for filling out this
form.
Name:
Job Title:
Telephone number:
Fax number:
E-Mail address:
Date:
Signature:
38



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
1. Brief Sub-project Description
Please provide information on the type and scale of the sub-project (project area, area of
required land, approximate size of total building floor areas, etc.)
2. The Natural Environment
(a) Describe the land formation, topography, and vegetation in/adjacent to the Sub-
project area
(b) Estimate and indicate where vegetation might need to be cleared
(c) Are there any environmentally sensitive areas or threatened species (specify below)
that could be adversely affected by the project?
(i) Intact natural forests Yes  No_
(ii) Riverine forest Yes   No_
(iii) Wetlands (lakes, rivers, seasonally inundated areas) Yes  No_
(iv) How far are the nearest Wetlands (lakes, rivers, seasonally inundated areas)?
km
(v) Habitats of endangered species for which protection is required under
Comorian laws and/or international agreements. Yes   No_
(vi) Others (describe). Yes   No_
39



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
3. Rivers and Lakes Ecology
Is there a possibility that, due to construction and operation of the sub-project, the river
and lake ecology will be adversely affected? Attention should be paid to water quality
and quantity, the nature, productivity and use of aquatic habitats, and variations of these
over time.
Yes       No_
4. Protected areas
Does the project area (or components of the project) occur within/adjacent to any
protected areas designated by government (national park, national reserve, world heritage
site etc.)?
Yes       No_
If the project is outside of, but close to, any protected area, is it likely to adversely affect
the ecology within the protected area (e.g., interference with the migration routes of
mammals or birds)
Yes       No_
5. Geology and Soils
Based upon visual inspection or available literature, are there areas of possible geologic
or soil instability (erosion prone, landslide prone, subsidence-prone)?
Yes       No_
Based upon visual inspection or available literature, are there areas that have risks of
large scale increase in soil salinity?
Yes       No_
6. Landscape/aesthetics
Is there a possibility that the sub-project will adversely affect the aesthetic attractiveness
of the local landscape?
40



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
Yes       No_
7. Historical, archaeological or cultural heritage site.
Based on available sources, consultation with local authorities, local knowledge and/or
observations, could the sub-project alter any historical, archaeological or cultural heritage
site or require excavation near same?
Yes       No_
8. Resettlement and/or Land Acquisition
Will involuntary resettlement, land acquisition, or loss, denial or restriction of access to
land and other economic resources be caused by sub-project implementation?
Yes       No_
9. Loss of Crops, Fruit Trees and Household Infrastructure
Will the project result in the permanent or temporary loss of crops, fruit trees and
household infra-structure (such as granaries, outside toilets and kitchens, etc)?
Yes    No_
10. Noise pollution during Construction and Operations
Will the operating noise level exceed the allowable noise limits?
Yes    No_
11. Solid or Liquid Wastes, including Medical Waste
Will the sub-project generate solid or liquid wastes, including medical waste?
Yes     No_
If "Yes", does the project include a plan for their adequate collection and disposal?
Yes     No_
12. Pesticides, Insecticides, Herbicides or any other Poisonous or Hazardous
Chemicals.
41



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
Will the sub-project require the use of such chemicals?
Yes   No_
If, "Yes", does the sub-project include a plan for their safe handling, use and disposal?
Yes_ No_
42



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
Annex 2      Procedures for Sub-project Investments Requiring EA
Step 1: Screeninzg
To determine the depth of EA required, potential impacts in the following areas need to
be considered:
*  Social issues
*  Health issues
*  Protected areas
*  Cultural heritage, archaeological sites
*  Existing natural resources such as forests, soils, wetlands, water resources
*  Wildlife or endangered species' habitats
Step 2: Scoping
To identify the relevant environmental and social issues, this step determines:
*  Level of detail required for the EA
*  Extent of the area to be covered in light of the potential impact zones
*  Timeframe for the EA based on the potential impact zones
*  Sequencing and scheduling of the various EA tasks
*  Preliminary budgets
Step 3: Preparation of Terms of Reference for sub-project EAs
Based on the screening and scooping results, EA terms of reference will be prepared. A
local service provider will conduct the EA, and the report should have the following
format:
*  Description of the study area
*  Description of the sub-project
*  Description of the environment
*  Legislative and regulatory considerations
*  Determination of the potential impacts of the proposed sub-projects
*  Public consultations process
*  Development of mitigation measures and a monitoring plan, including cost
estimates
Annex 2: Typical Checklist to Identify Impacts and Mitigation Measures of Construction
Sites under the Proposed FADC III
43



Environmental and
Social Components                                         Impacts                                            Mitigation Measures
Physical Environment
Soils                      - Erosion of lands down slope from borrow areas.                 Construction in dry season; protection of soil surfaces
* Landslides and slips                                            during construction; re-vegetation or physical
* Contamination from waste materials, e.g. cement and paints,     stabilization of erodable surfaces. Land restoration
engine oils, etc.                                                 measures
* Excavating borrow pits for aggregate materials (sand and stone) for  Adequate protection from livestock entry by fencing the
concrete                                                          site perimeters
* Cutting of stone for use on fagades                            Control and daily cleaning at construction sites
Provision of adequate waste disposal services
Proper disposal of chemicals and other hazardous
materials
Dust control by water, appropriate design and siting,
restrict construction to certain times
Appropriate and suitable storage of building materials on
site
Water Resources             * Creation of stagnant water pools                              Special attention to drainage; prevention of erosion;
* Increased sediments into streams                                consideration of alternative alignments; retention ponds;
* Clogging of drainage works                                      proper disposal of oil and other hazardous materials
* Decline in water quality
* Increase in runoff and flooding conditions                     Siting of Latrines at safe distances from wells and using
* Introduction of hazardous wastes                                closed systems for sewage drainage
* Contamination of wells
Air Quality                 * Dust during construction                                      Dust control by water or other means
Acoustic Environment        * Noise disturbance                                             Restrict construction to certain hours
Bio-physical
Environment
Natural Habitats            * Disturbance of natural habitats                               Consideration of alternative alignments or sites
* Disturbance to protected areas



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES       CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
Fauna and Flora           - Disruption or destruction of wildlife                      Minimize loss of natural vegetation during construction;
* Threats to rare and endangered species                       alternative sites; various special measures for sensitive
species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape  * Marred landscapes                                          Restoration of vegetation; cleanup of construction sites
* Debris
Historical/Cultural Sites  - Degradation of sites                                      Alternative alignments and/or sites
* Disturbance to structures                                  Special measures to protect cultural heritage sites
Human Health              * Transport of hazardous substances                          Regulation of transport of materials
* Traffic accidents                                          Safety designs (signage)
* Pedestrian accidents                                       Ensure availability of clean potable water for use in
latrines, canteens and for drinking
Use of appropriate building materials. No asbestos etc.
Human Commnunities        * Involuntary resettlement                                   Prepare Resettlement and Compensation Plans
* Loss of crops, buildings, property, or economic livelihood   consistent with disclosed RPF as per OP 4.12
Environmental and
Social Components                                      Impacts                                         Mitigation Measures
Physical Environment
Soils                     * Erosion of lands down slope from borrow areas.             Construction in dry season; protection of soil surfaces
* Landslides and slips                                         during construction; re-vegetation or physical
* Contamination from waste materials, e.g. cement and paints,  stabilization of erodable surfaces. Land restoration
engine oils, etc.                                              measures
* Excavating borrow pits for aggregate materials (sand and stone) for  Adequate protection from livestock entry by fencing the
concrete                                                       site perimeters
* Cutting of stone for use on fagades                       Control and daily cleaning at construction sites
Provision of adequate waste disposal services
Proper disposal of chemicals and other hazardous
materials
Dust control by water, appropriate design and siting,
restrict construction to certain times
Appropriate and suitable storage of building materials on
site



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES        CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
Water Resources            - Creation of stagnant water pools                             Special attention to drainage; prevention of erosion;
* Increased sediments into streams                              consideration of alternative alignments; retention ponds;
* Clogging of drainage works                                    proper disposal of oil and other hazardous materials
* Decline in water quality
* Increase in runoff and flooding conditions                   Siting of Latrines at safe distances from wells and using
* Introduction of hazardous wastes                              closed systems for sewage drainage
* Contamination of wells
Air Quality                * Dust during construction                                     Dust control by water or other means
Acoustic Environment       * Noise disturbance                                            Restrict construction to certain hours
Bio-physical
Environment
Natural Habitats           * Disturbance of natural habitats                              Consideration of alternative alignments or sites
* Disturbance to protected areas
Fauna and Flora            * Disruption or destruction of wildlife                        Minimize loss of natural vegetation during construction;
* Threats to rare and endangered species                        alternative sites; various special measures for sensitive
species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape   * Marred landscapes                                            Restoration of vegetation; cleanup of construction sites
* Debris
Historical/Cultural Sites  * Degradation of sites                                         Alternative alignments and/or sites
* Disturbance to structures                                    Special measures to protect cultural heritage sites
Human Health               * Transport of hazardous substances                            Regulation of transport of materials
* Traffic accidents                                            Safety designs (signage)
* Pedestrian accidents                                         Ensure availability of clean potable water for use in
latrines, canteens and for drinking
Use of appropriate building materials. No asbestos etc.
Human Communities          * Involuntary resettlement                                     Prepare Resettlement and Compensation Plans
* Loss of crops, buildings, property, or economic livelihood     consistent with disclosed RPF as per OP 4.12






REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
Annexe 4     Liste des documents consultes
1. Les Termes de Reference
2. Project Concept Document (PCD)
3. The evolving Draft Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
4. The approved Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS)
5. Aide Memoires de la Mission
6. L'Etude d'Impact sur L'Environnement Par la Societe Scetauroute, Decembre
1999
7. Le Manuel de Procedures pour FADC
8. Rapport National sur les Objectifs du Millenaire pour le Developpement
9. Loi-cadre N° 94-018 du 19 juin 1995 relative a l'environnement
10. Decret N°0 1-053/CE dul9 avril 2001 relatif au Parc Marin de Moheli
11. Decret N°01-052/CE dul9 avril 2001 relatif aux Etudes d'Impact sur
l'Environnement
12. Rapport de Pre-evaluation du Programme National de Developpement Humain
Durable
13. Politique Nationale de l'Environnement de la Republique Federale Islamique des
Comores
14. Les Politiques de Sauvegarde de la Banque Mondiale
2



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES  CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC 111)
Annex 5      Villages Visited during Field Mission
Grand Comore
* Moroni
* Hahaya
* Mitsamiouli
* Vouvouni
* Itsandra
S
Anjouan
* Ouani
* Mutsamudu
* Moya
* Domoni
* M'Remani
Moheli
* Fomboni
* Wanani
* Miringoni
* Salamani
* Hoani
3



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES          CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
Annex 6         Country and Island Maps
KENYA
TANZANIA            S,
v _-_> CAMOZA M BIOUE                            MADAGASCAR
, tWGRAN DE                   ZIM#5uFl 3>
;  > CO 1\10OR E                                       ISwRZaAC; U
Grande Comore
\ (Njazidja)
ANJOUAN
H...'            An,at,an  - .ssAjo!
MOHELI
(Mw^aI')
Comoros                                                       ,o
*  N.it,o 001 CopiloI l  5^S  <<.       2     .....Ma,
MONt.i.L AP,,  101231.oo unit                                  o 0..0.I
.                           ^  ,  ,. i zNlis~~~~~~M yotte
000.0 10727 lo0022 1-211001'



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES    CADRE de GESTION ENVIRONNEMENTAL et SOCIAL
(FADC III)
tsamio li
Mbeni
soudjin     Ngazidja
IN' oudiin
4 oroni
Icani     Na a
23GIfi t
Foumbouni
Dembini)
Hoani
Miringoni  Fomabon
Nioumrachoua '17 Wanani
Mwali
NZVVAN
Cuani
Mutsamudu
Sima
3575mTL  Domoni
l0yara    Rmani
- NRlamani



