                                         Documentof
                                       The World Bank

                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                      ReportNo: 37721-KM




                                      PROJECTPAPER

                                            ONA

                    PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGGRANT

                                    INTHEAMOUNT OF

                   SDR 3.4 MILLION(US$5.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                UNION OF THE COMOROS

                                           FORA

                             SERVICES SUPPORTPROJECT

                                      November9,2006




HumanDevelopmentI11
CountryDepartment5
Africa RegionOffice




This documenthas arestricteddistributionandmaybeusedbyrecipientsonly inthe
performanceoftheir official duties. Itscontents maynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective October 30,2006)
                               Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (CF)
                                    CF350 = US$1
                                   US$1.48 = SDR 1

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    - December31



                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD              vlc Franqaise de                LDP           Local Development Plan
             De'veloppement (French
             Development Agency)
CDP          Community Development Plan          LICUS         Low Income Countries Under
                                                               Stress
CF           Comorian Franc                      M&E           Monitoringand Evaluation
DO           Development Objective               MTR           MidTermReview
EU           EuropeanUnion                       SDR           StandardDrawingRights
FADC         Fonds d'Appui au                    SSP           Services Support Project
             De'veloppement Communautaire
             (Fundto Support Community
             Development)
FMR          Financial ManagementReport          UNDP          UnitedNations Development
                                                               Programme
IBRD         International Bank for              UNFPA         UnitedNations Population Fund
             Reconstruction andDevelopment
IDA          International Development           UNICEF        UnitedNations Children's Fund
             Association
I-PRSP       Interim Poverty Reduction           WHO           World HealthOrganization
             Strategy Paper
I S N        InterimStrategyNote




                            Vice President:       Gobind T. Nankani
     Country Director/ Program Coordinator:       ColinBruce /Geoffrey Bergen
                  Sector Directormanager:         Yaw Ansu/Laura Frigenti
                         Task Team Leader:        Marvanne Sham

                       COMOROS            SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
                                    ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                              CONTENTS

    ProjectPaperDataSheet         ............................................................                           1

  I. Introduction...............................................................................................         1

 I1 BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancing
   .                                                                                     ............................    1

I11 ProposedChanges
   .                      .....................................................................................          5

I V. SpecificGovernanceIssues             ......................................................................        10

 V . Consistency with CAS or CPS              ..................................................................        11

VI .AppraisalofRestructuredor Scaled-upProjectActivities                                           ................12
VI1. ExpectedOutcomes       ...................................................................................         12

VI11 Benefitsand Risks
   .                      .....................................................................................         13

 I X
   . FinancialTermsAnd ConditionsFor The AdditionalFinancing                                                      .......14
 X . CreditConditionsand Covenants                    .............................................                      14



     ScheduleA  ..........................................................................                               15

     ScheduleB ..........................................................................                               16

     Schedule C ..........................................................................                               18

     ScheduleD  ..........................................................................                               19

     ScheduleE ...........................................................................                               23

                             COMOROS    SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
                                     ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                   PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET

Date: November 9,2006                       Team Leader:    Maryanne Sharp
Country:    Comoros                         Sector DirectorManager: Yaw Ansunaura
Project Name: Additional Financing- Frigenti
Comoros Services Support Credit             Country Director:  ColinBruce
Project ID: PO100804                        Environmental Category: B
Borrower:     Unionof the Comoros
Responsibleagency:       Fonds d 'Appui au De'veloppement Communautaire (FADC)


FY                       07                 08                  09
Annual                   2.0                2.5                 0.5
Cumulative               2.0                4.5                 5.0



Does the restructuredor scaled-up project require any exceptions from Bank o Yes   0 No
policies?
Have these beenapprovedby Bank management?                                   o Yes o No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 o Yes 0 No
Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes[Ifapplicable]

  The developmentobjectives ofthe project havenot been revised.

Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguardpolicies?
No
                                  For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan [ 3 Credit [XI Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.): US$5.0 million
        Proposedterms: IDA Grant Financing
                                  Financing Plan (US$m.)
       Source                   Local                  Foreign              Total
Borrower                                  0.00                0.00                  0.00
IBRD/IDA                                  4.00                1.oo                  5.00
Others                                    0.00                0.00                 '0.00
Total                                     4.00                1.oo                  5.00




                                                  i

                              COMOROS    SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
                                      ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                           PROJECTPAPER

I. INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o fthe Executive Directors to provide an additional
SDR 3.4 million (US$5.0 millionequivalent) to the Uniono fComoros for the Comoros Services
Support Project (P084315), Cr. 3868-COM. It is also proposedto extendthe closing date o fthe
project by one year and a halffiom November 30,2008 to June 30,2010. The additional
financing i s the centerpiece o fthe Comoros InterimStrategy Note (ISN), to be discussed by the
Board on December 14,2006, with the proposedproject.

2.      The proposed additional grant would finance the costs associated withthe scaling upo f
the activities to enhance the impact o fthe Services Support Project (SSP), including (i)
extendingthe community development process to a greater number o fcommunities and
integrating the communal levels into the process, resulting inan increase inthe number o f
communityand local development plans; (ii)      improvingthe quality ofthe community
development process andrelated activities; (iii)  widening eligibility ofprojectsto include more
environmentalprotection and conservation activities; and (iv) increasingmonitoring and
evaluation activities as well as operating costs and audits to cover the additional implementation
period o f 19 months. The SSP has been successful indeliveringvisible results on the ground
despite the political instability plaguing the country inrecent years. After almost two years o f
implementation, the project i s well on track to meetingits development objectives.

3.      The project's development objectives would remainunchanged, butthree o fthe project
components would be modified to better reflect ongoing and scaled up project activities. The
proposed project would finance the productiono f 60 additional community and local
development plans through a scaled up process to better integrate women, vulnerable groups as
well as local authorities; support three pilot communal sub-projects; integrate a small
environmental and conservation component into each o fthe community-based infrastructure
projects; introduce watershed management pilots onthe islands o f Anjouan and Moheli; and
scale up monitoring and evaluation activities linkedto the increased number o f development
plans. Targets for the existing project performance indicators will be increased to reflect these
new activities. Although there have beenno indications o f governance problems inthis project,
the additional financing proposalnonetheless tightens fiduciary riskmanagement procedures in
accordance with the enhanced emphasis on ensuringgood governance inthe InterimStrategy
Note.

11.     BACKGROUND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCING
                        AND

4.      The Services Support Project (SSP) was approvedon March 11,2004, andbecame
effective on September 29,2004. The closing date is currently November 30, 2008. The total
amount o fthe credit i s SDR 9 million (US$13.3 equivalent). The objectives o fthe project are to
(i)maintainbasic social and economic infrastructure for a significant number of disadvantaged
communities and specific vulnerable groups; and (ii)    contribute to buildingthe basic capacity o f



                                                  1

communities and local actors to conduct a local development process. The midterm review
(MTR)o fthe project was heldinSeptember 2006, the mainrecommendations o fwhich have
been integrated into the implementationof the SSP and form the basis for the proposed
additional financing activities.

5.      The project finances five components:

Component 1: Communipbased Subprojects: This component finances small-scale social and
economic sub-projects identifiedby communities, including classrooms and schools, small scale
water supply and sanitation, and feeder roads.

Component 2: Capacitv Buildinn: This component supports capacity buildingand social capital
formation for communities and other local development actors, including information and
education campaigns; related strategic capacity building for civil society; and capacity building
o fFADC and various stakeholders.

Component 3: Health Services: The project finances on-going training o f selected medical
personnel inComoros (identifiedinthe now closed Healthproject) andthe maintenance of
medical equipment.

Component 4: Urban Water Supplv: These activities were already identifiedunder the
Infrastructure, Water and Environment project and include rehabilitation and extension o fwater
supply intwo towns, one inAnjouan and one inMohCli. This component also finances capacity
buildingo fwater management committees andinformation, education and communication
campaigns on water management, sanitation and hygiene.

Component 5: Project Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E), and Audits: FADC's operating costs
andtechnical assistance to undertake the audits are includedunderthis component. Inaddition,
this component supports M&Eactivities, includingthe creation ofaparticipatorymonitoring and
evaluation system, an impact evaluation and implementationo fvarious beneficiary assessments
and other studies.

6.      The SSP i s implementedbythe Fonds dYppui au De'veloppement Communautaire
(FADC), an organization with 13 years o f experience and an excellent track record in
implementingcommunity based development projects. Therehave beenno changesto the
original objectives and designo f the project. The legal agreement has been amended once to
reflect a reallocation o f credit proceeds betweencategories approved inFebruary 2006.

Status of ProjectImplementation

7.      The Services Support Project has beensuccessful indeliveringresults on the ground
despitethe unstable and fragile operating environment. Boththe development objective and
implementation progress are currently rated satisfactory. Inspite o f initial delays inproject
implementation, the project i s well on track to meet its first developmentobjective (DO) which i s
to maintain basic social and economic infrastructure for a significant number o f disadvantaged
communities andvulnerable groups. By testing and investingimportant efforts inits capacity



                                                 2

buildingcomponent, the project is progressing well with achieving its second D O which is to
buildthe basic capacity o fcommunities and local actors to conduct a local development process.

8.       Implementationprogress continues to be good despitethe turbulent country
circumstances. As o f October 25,2006,45% o fthe credit has beendisbursed. Underthe
component 1, 19 community-based sub-projects were completed inYear 1,benefiting 26
communities. Elevencommunities out o fthe 26 have never benefited from financing by the
FADC (compared to a target o f seven communities). With respect to component 2 on capacity
building, the local development process for Year 1was completed in44 communities withthe
production o ftheir community development plans (CDPs). Participation o fwomen and
vulnerable groups inthe community development process has beenstrengthened and lessons
learned from the first year were integrated into this year's process. InYear 2,24 community
projects are beingfinanced based on the priorities identifiedinthe CDPs versus a target of 20
projects. Out o fthe 24 communities, 16 have never benefited from FADC financing (compared
to a target o f 9). Moreover, the local development process i s underway in25 communities
compared to a target o f 20.

9.       Underthe health services component, bothpreventive and correctivemaintenance o f
medical equipment inthe hospitals o fthe three islands is being performed through a performance
based contract with a regional firm. Inaddition, out o fthe 21 scholarship students financed by
FADC, ten have completed their studies and have beenreintegratedinto the public health
system. An additional six will complete their studiesby endDecember 2006.

10.      The urbanwater component suffered from a series o fdelays, due inlarge partto the lack
o f interest from international enterprises following two publications o fthe biddocuments for the
works, inall likelihood due to the uncertainpolitical environment prior to the presidential
elections heldinMay 2006. Giventhe failure to attract international enterprises, the works were
broken down into three lots per site and are beingbiddedout to regional and local enterprises
withthe requisite capacity and experience to complete the works. These works were launchedat
the beginningo f October 2006. Inthe meantime,water user associations, beneficiary
populations andthe municipalities have demonstrated their commitmentto the operations and
maintenance o fthe system. Training has beenundertaken and an initial deposit equivalent to six
months o f maintenance o fthe network has beenmade into each committee's account.

11.      Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities continue to improve with a participatory
community-based M&E system inplace providing data to the project's Management Information
System. The project beneficiaries actively participate inthe monitoring o fthe execution o f sub-
projects. The project co-financed the national Household Survey anda preliminary report is
available. All financial audits are upto date and the project i s incompliance with its covenants.

Rationale andReasonsfor theAdditional Financing

12.      Comoros is emergingfrom a significant period o f turmoil andpolitical instability.
Progress towards national reconciliation was marked by the election o f a newPresident, on an
anti-corruption platform, inMay 2006. Nonetheless, Comoros continues to face major
governance challenges as years o fpolitical instability have significantly eroded the legitimacy



                                                   3

and accountability o fthe state. Entrenched poor governance, as a result o f repeated cycles o f
political crisis and instability, weak capacity o fpublic institutions, and limited scope for public
dialogue on policy or participationincivic life characterize Comoros as a L o w Income Country
Under Stress (LICUS). InLICUS countries such as Comoros, conventional channels of
government provision o fbasic social services have broken down, with both weak political
accountability for policies andperformance as well as technical and institutional weaknesses in
public service providers. Attemptingto increase the flow o ffinance throughthese channels is
unlikely to be effective, and there is little immediate prospect o f significant institutional
improvement. Insuch situations, the use o f "alternative" and nongovernmentalchannels is often
the only source for the provision o fmuch-needed health, education, and other basic services in
the short-term. Moreover, they can demonstrate more effective andefficient service provision as
well as buildbottom-up demand for end-useraccountability and increased client "voice."

13.      Within this fragile context, the rationale for additional financing is that it would reinforce
and expandthe project's overall development impact, buildinguponthe bottom-up approach that
has proved the most effective conduit for poverty reducing assistance inComoros. As detailed in
the ISN, the additional financing would allow the project to continue as the main financing
vehicle for the Bank's Comoros program, and the foundation for its ongoing country dialogue.
Based on current disbursements, which have begunaccelerating as the works for the urban water
component have recently beenlaunched, with the projected commitments for next year's annual
action plantaking into account the needfor financing o f implementation o f the midterm
recommendations, it i s expected that the credit will be fully disbursedone year ahead o f time.
An alternative consideredwas the preparationo f a repeater project. However, the country team
felt that timing was critical interms o f demonstrating support to the new Government.
Moreover, giventhe visibility and demand for the services o fthe project throughout Comoros as
well as the satisfactory performance o fthe project interms o foutcomes onthe ground, additional
financing was deemedto be the most appropriate instrument inthe current context.

14.      Giventhe strong performance ofthe project, the additional financing will scale upthe
activities o fthree components: community based sub-projects, capacity building, and M&E and
project management. Implementationexperience relatedto these components demonstrates that
there i s a muchhigher than expected demand for both community-based activities through
capacity buildingandthe community development process. With the recent change in
Government inMay 2006, local authorities are currently beingput inplace or beingconfirmed.
Therefore there i s a needto integrate these levels o f government into the process to ensure longer
term sustainability and to support increased transparency and accountability.

15.      The project's community development approach was considerably improved duringthe
first year's test period, including: (i)
                                       increased training activities, for bothbeneficiaries and
project staff, including more time, an increased number o f themes, sessions and participants, and
recycling o f training; (ii)increased participation o f local women intraining, inlocal decision
making bodies and inthe community development survey; and (iii)         increased involvement o f
other traditionally underrepresented community members (e.g. youth, vulnerable people, female
headedhouseholds) inthe community development process. These improvements have resulted
inanincreased awarenessanddemandbylocal communities andlocal andcommunal authorities
to be involved inthe community development process. Inaddition, the MTRresultedina



                                                   4

numberofrecommendations to enhance the quality o fcommunity developmentprocess,
including ensuringwider participation o f women andvulnerable groups, placing more emphasis
on environmentalprotection and conservation, developinga marketing strategy for local
development plans, and enhancing the role o f community-based organizations inbasic health
service delivery. The proposed changes o fthe project components address these
recommendations.

111.   PROPOSED    CHANGES

16.    Although the project's development objectives would remainunchanged, three o fthe
project components would be modified to better reflect ongoing and scaled up project activities.
The proposed changes will mainly imply a significant scale-up o f the ongoing activities o fthe
three components: community based sub-projects, capacity building, and monitoring and
evaluationandproject management. The other original project components (health services and
urban water supply) would remain unchanged.

17.     The scaling up would support the following main strategic elements: (a) enhanced quality
ofthe community and local development process; (b) piloting o f communal sub-projects to
ensure integration o f local authorities inthe development process; (c) enhanced protection o fthe
environment and conservation activities; and (d) monitoring and evaluation andproject
management support.

(a) Enhanced quality of community and local developmentprocess

18.     The capacity building component would be scaled up both interms o f numbers o f
beneficiary communities and to improve the quality o f community development process. Under
component 2, the proposedadditional financing would increase the number o f CDPs targeting a
greater number o f beneficiary communities, and would also extendthe process to the local level
withthe objective ofproducing a few pilot local development plans (LDPs) inan effort to move
toward an integrated communal or local development mechanism. This work would complement
the financing o fthe EuropeanUnion (EU) for a Decentralized CooperationProgram which will
support the decentralization dialogue, strengthening o f democracy and good governance, and
support to local development initiatives. The original project i s covering the community
development process andthe elaboration o f CDPs as well as basic community infrastructure in
80 communities. The proposed additional financing would support 54 additional communities
withthe introductiono fthe community development process through the capacity building
component and six communes though capacity building, elaboration o f LDPs andpilot projects.

19.    Interms ofquality o fthe process, the scalingupwould inparticular focus onthe current
important improvements as well as the MTRrecommendations related to:
a) expansion o ftraining activities (time, numbero fparticipants and sessions), andto allow
    recycling o fthe most important training themes;
b) introduction ofnew/expanded themes intraining activities for other relevant project
    stakeholders, including; (i)technical and maintenance training for memberso fthe
    community management committees, including those benefiting from sub-projects in
    FADC's previous project phases; (ii)   training on good governance, development and



                                                  5

    participatory approaches targeting relevant decision and policy makers at local, regional and
    national levels, (iii)
                         intensified training o fthe most relevant o f the country's technical
    enterprises and contractors; (iv) gender training to project staff and other relevant
    stakeholders; (v) role o f vulnerable groups incommunity development; and (vi)
    environmentalmanagement and conservation;
c) greater promotion o fthe significant involvement o f women and other disadvantaged
    community members (youth, disabled, women) inthe project's training activities, indecision
    making bodies relatedto the project, andinthe participatory community development
    survey; and
d) capacity buildingo fproject staffinthe relevant areas o fexpertise.

20.     Itwould also further buildthe capacities at project, local and community level to ensure
improved project implementation, involvement of all stakeholders, including disadvantaged
persons, inthe development process.

21.     Sustainability o fthe community development process also impliesthat the community
and local development plans become living documents usedby other partners to ensure that
community priorities are understood and addressed by a wide range of actors. While efforts have
beenput into disseminating priorities withinthe communities bymobilizing community
membersand postingthe plans inpublic places, additional efforts needto be undertaken inorder
to reach out to a wider number o f actors: mainly local authorities, other donors andthe Diaspora.
With respect to the sustainability issue, following the MTR recommendations, the project will
develop a comprehensive marketing program with the relevant tools to assist communities to
seek financing from Government, other development partners and the Diaspora. The additional
financing will also help to create awareness and promote discussion and reflection among
regional and local authorities, civil society, community representatives and development partners
on community and local development mechanisms.

22.    Finally, community-basedorganizations and civil society play a dynamic andproactive
role inthe management o f basic health services. Around 90 percent o fthe financing for basic
health services are financed out-of-pocket by the patients andthe communities. Revenues
generated inthe health posts and centers are usedfor operational costs o fthe structures and to
paythe salaries o fmedical personnel hiredon a contractual basis. Patients are requiredto pay
for medicines directly. However, these basic services are not generally o f highquality. The
additional financing will support, on a pilot basis on each island, strengtheningo fthe
organizationand logistics o f a network o fhealth posts and centers, and capacity buildingo fthe
management committees to increase efficiency andimprove quality o f service.

(b) Piloting of communal sub-projects

23.    The principal objective o fthis pilot is to buildthe capacity o fvarious players at the
localkommunal level to improve their effectiveness inidentifying,preparing, implementingand
evaluating sub-projects that bring sustainable and broad-based impact to communities. Thus the
pilot communal sub-projects will further buildthe capacity o f communal authorities through day-
to-day management o fthe pilots through the "learning by doing" methodology o fthe project.
This approach includes hands-on training, participatory studies and development o fcommunal



                                                   6

andlocal development plans (based onthe community development plans)to allow for an
integrated road-map for development o f the country's regions.

24.     The additional financing will therefore support the piloting o fthree communal sub-
projects. Identifiedcommunes will be targeted for capacity buildingand incorporatedinto the
local development planning process to buildtheir capacity to undertake their functions ina
participatory andtransparent manner. The supervision o fthe pilot projects will strengthen
authorities' technical skills and give them experience inimplementingsmall-scale projects.

(c) Enhanced environmentalprotection and conservation activities

25.     The continued rate o f environmental degradation on all three islands, demonstrates the
urgent needfor the project to reorient the local development planning process to: (a) give
appropriate consideration to including and maintaining strategic environmental assets on these
fiagile ecological systems; (b) improve extension and disseminationo f environmentally sound
methods; (c) address resource tenure issues and community based natural resources
management; and (d) shift economic systems from exploitation of natural biological assets to
production (aquaculture, plantations, properly managed woodlots, etc).

26.     Furthermore, consideringthe ecological fragility o f both Anjouan and MohCli islands, the
project will support micro-investments at the community level to promote community-based
natural resources management which will include, but i s not limited to, activities such as
forestation programs usingwell studied and economically important species, development o f
methods to arrest soil and gully erosion, and preparation o fwell-designedenvironmental
education programs. Such an approach will promote partnerships and collaborative
arrangementsinbiodiversity and conservation management and such community based natural
resources management will also provide a people-centered framework for respondingto priority
environmental problems. It will also help mobilize communities, enable them to become more
effective players inenvironmental and conservation decision making processes, andempower
themto improve their access to natural resources and support other important objectives such as
participatory appraisal processes. To do so, the menu o f eligible community-based sub-projects
o f component 1will be widenedto include micro-conservation activities.

27.     The MTR recommended strengtheningenvironmental protectionactivities for category B
type sub-projects. As a result, under component 1, the additional financing will support small
scale-environment studies for feeder roads and water projects. Inaddition, a more significant
budgethas beenallocated to all types o f sub-projects for measures to ensure the protection o fthe
environment and to create more awareness among the infrastructuremanagement communities
responsible for maintenance and management o f the relevant community based infrastructure.
Giventhe water activities inAnjouan andMohCli, the proposed additional financing will support
the development and implementation o f a watershed management plan.

 (4Monitoring    and evaluation andproject management support

28.     Additional financing for the M&Ecomponent will allow the project to intensify its
participatory M&Eactivities, inparticular at local community levels, as well as to support



                                                 7

beneficiary assessments and additional technical assistance inthe analysis o f data for policy-
makingpurposes. Financingwill also be allocated to cover the operational costs ofthe project
for the extended period of 19 months and the additional necessary financial and technical audits.

ProjectCost and Financing

29.     The total project cost, including taxes andduties, is estimated at US$5 million. The
breakdown o f estimated costs i s shown inSchedule A. Schedule B lays out the project's
financing planand disbursement schedule. A summaryo fprocurement arrangements i s givenin
Schedule C.

ProjectImplementation,FinancialManagement,DisbursementandProcurement
Arrangements

30.     Implementationmechanisms. They would be the same under the additional financing as
for the ongoing project, as they are working well. The FADC was established as a non-profit
association for public service ("association d but non lucratifreconnue d'inte`rztpublic") and i s
financially and administrativelyautonomous. FADC will continue to operate on a decentralized
basis through its three regional offices overseen by the national office inaccordance with the
provisions o fthe Operational Manual and Framework Agreement (Convention) betweenFADC
andthe Government. The OperationalManual clearly defines the modalities o fexecutionand
procedures for implementationo f each component. Beneficiaries are expected to contribute a
percentage o fthe cost o f each sub-project inkind(materials and labor) or incash. The Manual i s
currently being updated to include some modifications inthe community development process
and environmentalactivities linked to the community-based projects, following the MTR
recommendations. The project's implementation capacity was assessedduringpreparationand
the activities andtargets were agreedupon based on the self-assessed capacity o f each island,
reflecting realities on the ground. The project will continue to providecapacity enhancement
support to project staff to support the scale-up activities, including training and short term
technical assistance as required.

31.     Financial management arrangements: Inaccordance with Bank policy and procedures,
the financial management arrangements o fthe FADC have beenreviewedto determine whether
they are acceptable to the Bank. This review is rather an update since the financial management
system ofthis entity has already been assessedinthe context o fthe ongoing SSP. The overall
conclusion from this review i s that the FADC financial management i s acceptable. However, to
further strengthenthe system, the current accounting manual ofprocedures needs to be updated
to reflect agreed changes inthe project organizational structure/procedures, andprovide the
models o f quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs) and other periodic reporting
requiredunderthe additional financing. The computerizedaccounting and reporting system in
place i s adequate and allows for timely productiono f financial information required for
managing and monitoring project activities. It will be maintained as definedinthe current
Manual o fProcedures. To ensure efficient use o f credit funds for the purposes intendedand
consistent application o f policies andprocedures, an internal auditor has beenrecruited. The
internal auditor's contract will be extended untilthe end o fthe project. Inaddition, FADC has a
qualified and trained accounting staff well versed inBank procedures. Independent auditors



                                                  8

acceptable to IDA will audit the project accounts under the Additional Financing. An
ImplementationCompletion Report will be prepared within six months after Credit closing. The
same special account will be used as for the original credit with an authorized allocation amount
o f CF 400 million, which i s equivalent to US$1.1million. Statements o f expenditures would be
used for all expenditures under contracts below the Association's prior review limits.

32.     Procurement arrangements under the proposed additional financing will be the same as
the arrangements under the Services Support Credit; however, the updated Guidelines o f 2004
will apply. Procurement o fgoods and works requiredfor the project andto be financed out o f
the proceeds o fthe grant shall be governed bythe "Guidelinesfor Procurementunder IBRD
Loans and IDA Credit" publishedby the Bank inMay 2004. Procurement o f consultants' services
shall be governed by the "Guidelines for the Selection andEmployment o f Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" publishedby the Bank inMay 2004. Community Participation inProcurement
would be based on the Africa Region's Guidelines    - Simplified Procurement and Disbursement
Procedures for Community-Based Investments. For each contract to be financed by the Grant,
the differentprocurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior reviewrequirements, and time frame are outlined inthe
Project Agreement, the Operational Manual and the Procurement Plan.

33.     A separate procurementplan for the additional financing has beenpreparedandapproved
bythe Bank procurement team. Itwill be integrated into the Global Procurement Plano fthe
Services Support Credit and will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

34.     The closing date will be extendedby one year and a halffrom November 30,2008 to
June 30,2010.

35.     Giventhe high-risknature of the country, a set of specific anti-corruption safeguards has
beenbuilt into the Bank's strategy inthe Comoros, and will therefore apply to the supervision of
the additional financing:
     0   Introduction of risk-based auditing;
     0  Regular (annual) project performance review;
     0  Increasing transparency inmonitoring o fproject outcomes and audit results, including
        training for civil society actors inmonitoring techniques;
        Ensuringfulltransparency o fprocurement via publicationo f allprocurement
        transactions; and
     0  Ensuringenforcement o f fiduciary standards, by followingup systematically on cases o f
        non-compliance, integrity issues and audit findings, and use of strong remedial measures
        whennecessary.

36.     Inaddition, the project is closely andregularly supervised the Bank team, especially with
respect to fiduciary and environmental safeguards. More details on the risk assessment can be
found inSchedule D.




                                                 9

37.      Since IDA'SGeneral Conditions were changed in2005, the additional financing is being
extendedthrough new grant andproject agreements andthe legal agreements for the original
Comoros Services Support Credit have been amended.

IV.      SPECIFIC   GOVERNANCE      ISSUES

38.      As with any public program implementedthrough a decentralized government structure,
involving donor resources, the SSP requires strong checks and balances to protect it from
manipulationfor personal ends or special interests. Targeting o fthe most disadvantaged
communities usinga clear andtransparent strategy andfinancing o f community projects on the
basis o fneeds identifiedby the communities themselves are two key elements o fthe project.
Moreover, followingthe 2004 World Development Report (WDR) andthe LICUS principles o f
engagement, capacity-building approaches incommunity development projects can provide
opportunities to foster better governance environments through increasing "client voice";
emphasizing buildingbottom-up demand for end-useraccountability and service provision which
i s inclusive, participatory, and effective; and fostering conditions for deeper and more favorable
long-term change inthe governance environment.

                            Box 1:PortfolioAnti-corruptionSafeguards

At time of projectdesign
     Governance review o f project anti-corruption environment, involving financial management
     and procurement staff.
     Applying fiduciary risk analysis as a standard part o fproject designmanagement procedures.

Duringsupervision
     Increased disclosure o fproject information.
     Introduction o f risk-based auditing.
     Regular (annual) project performance review.
     Increasing transparency in monitoring o f project outcomes and audit results, including
     training for civil society actors inmonitoring techniques.
     Ensuring full transparency o f procurement via publication of all procurement plans and
     transactions.
     Ensuringenforcement o f fiduciary standards, by following up systematically on cases o f non-
     compliance, integrity issues and audit findings, and has taken and will continue to take strong
     remedial measures.
     Independentlymonitoredcomplaints mechanism.


39.      Recent independent reviews have indicated that the SSP i s largely operating ina fair and
accountable manner. Nevertheless, a series o f anti-corruption safeguards are being built into the
on-going portfolio, including the SSP (see Box 1above).




                                                   10

V.       CONSISTENCY    WITH CAS

40.      InOctober 2005, the Government completedits InterimPovertyReductionStrategy
Paper (I-PRSP) and it was presentedto the Board of Directors o fthe World Bank on May 16,
2006. The I-PRSPis the first comprehensive economic and social strategy document prepared
through a wide participatory process. The I-PRSP centers around three main objectives: (i)
sustained economic growth; (ii)   improvedhuman capital development; and (iii)     improved
governance andpolitical stability.

41.      The Bank's strategy inComoros i s beingupdated with the preparation o fthe ISN, which
i s beingpresented to the Board at the same time as the proposed additional financing. The I S N
i s based on the government's I-PRSP with two main objectives for the next 18 months (FY07-
08): (i) continue to provide basic services to the most disadvantaged communities with a focus
on community and local capacity building; and (ii)     consolidate the national reconciliation
through buildingstate capacity and increasingaccountability. The proposed additional financing
for the SSP supports the first objective and allows for an enhancement of the project's activities
through the broadening of community interventions. Of the seven axes o fthe I-PRSP, this
project thus directly supports the education, health, water and sanitation, transport and
environment axes.

Complementaritiesof Donor Activities

42.      Giventhe small number of donors anddevelopment partners active inComoros, close
coordination on project activities i s critical to ensure maximum impact and leverage additional
sources of financing. The SSP has worked closely with partners ina number o f ways. As
mentioned above, the SSP i s coordinating closely with the EUon its Decentralized Cooperation
Program. With respect to the EU's program on education, discussions are underway to
coordinate the construction and/or rehabilitation of school-related infrastructure, including
latrines. Inaddition, the project will provide capacity buildingfor those school management
committees that the EUproject i s supporting. France i s financing health, ruraldevelopment, public
finance management andjustice reform. The Agence Franpise de De`veloppement (AFD) i s
currently preparinga health sector support project focused on, among others, institutional
capacity building, support to the national hospital, and strengtheningo f access and quality o f
services inAnjouan. Duringthe MTR, discussions were heldwith the preparation mission on
the creationand support to equipment maintenance inthe major hospitals o fthe country, which
i s partially beingfinanced under the SSP. Moreover, the AFD and the Services Support Project
have created synergies incommunity development. Incommunities where AFD financed small
water projects, the SSP undertook the community development process to ensure the
sustainability and maintenance of investments.

43.      Currently a proposal for financing o f community-based management of environmental
assets i s underpreparationby the government and its partners inthe sector, and will be submitted
to the Global Environmental Facility. Day-to-day management o fthese activities will be
undertakenby the SSP, underthe auspices o fthe Ministryo f Environment. These activities will
complement the existing environmental and conservation activities to be supported under the
additional financing. Finally, the SSP i s coordinating closely with UNICEF, UNDP, UNFPA



                                                    11

and WHO on critical health, water and sanitation issues to be integrated into the capacity
buildingcomponent ofthe community development process.

VI.     APPRAISALOF SCALED-UPPROJECTACTIVITIES

44.     Although the project i s being scaled up, the program remains as originally designed and
appraised. The economic, financial, technical, institutional, fiduciary, and social aspects o fthe
activities to be undertaken with the additional financing remain the same as inthe original
project.

Environmental analysis

45.     The scaled up activities do not raise the environmental category o fthe project, which is
already category Bynor trigger any new safeguard policies. An Environmental and Social
Management Framework and a Resettlement Policy Framework were prepared and disclosed on
December3,2003. They were also disseminated inComorosthrough a series o fworkshops on
each island and permanently located in strategic places inComoros where they can be accessed
by interested parties and beneficiaries. The objectives o fthese documents were to (i) the
                                                                                        assess
environmental andsocial impacts o fthe expected sub-projects; (ii) environmental
                                                                     outline
management procedures and provide the requisite tools, including a screening process with sub-
project assessmentforms and guidelines for mitigating impacts; and (iii)   integrate environmental
considerations into each phase o fthe sub-project cycle. Both frameworks and their screening
processes were incorporatedinthe project's manual o fprocedures.

46.     The additional financing would fund community and local development plans as well as
pilot communal subprojects similar inscale and scope to those implementedunder the original
project. However, the midterm review, heldinSeptember2006, recommended the following
measuresto strengthenthe protection o fthe environment: (i)    allocation o f a more significant
budgetinthe designandpreparationo f sub-projects to betterprevent environmental impacts,
rather thanto mitigate them; (ii) additional capacity buildingo fproject staff and relevant
partners, including communities and communal authorities; and (iii)   recruitment o f periodic
technical assistanceas needed. These activities will be undertaken under the additional
financing.

47.     The scale-up does not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.

VII. EXPECTED       OUTCOMES

48.     Discussions were heldduringthe MTR on the needto include more intermediate
outcome indicators to measure the success o fthe project. At the time o fproject design, giventhe
LICUS context, most o f the performance indicators identifiedwere relatedto outputs. To
addressthis issue, and following on the work o fthe project on strengthening its monitoring and
evaluation system, a set o fkey intermediate outcome and output indicators for the project have
beendefinedalong with targets. These indicators andtargets have beenestablished based on
capacity and giventhe realities o f implementation ina still fragile environment. Certain
indicators are beingincluded inthe Project Agreement and are presentedinSchedule E.



                                                  12

VIII. BENEFITSAND RISKS

49.     Benefits. Benefits remain as described inthe original Project Appraisal Document. The
project will support improving the living conditions o f disadvantaged communities through the
financing o f community identified projects such as classrooms and schools, small scale water
supply and sanitation, feeder roads, andenvironmentalprotection and conservationmicro
projects. The number o f projects implementedthrough the direct financing of communities will
also be scaled up. These projects are expected to increase productivity and income over the
mediumand long-term, as economic investmentsininfrastructure, such as feeder roads improve
the profitability o f agriculture and as social infrastructure inhealth and education improve labor
productivity.

50.     The project will also contribute to buildingthe basic capacity o f a larger numbero f
communities and local actors to conduct a local development process, and to plan, implement
andmanage development projects. This process is beingscaled upto provide support to the new
communal authorities recently put inplace. A number o fprojects will be piloted at the inter-
community and communal levels to enable lessons learned for future scaling up by other
development partners.

51.     Risks. The risk assessment matrix presentedinSchedule D outline specific risks as well
as mitigating measures. Moreover, some o fthe risks mentioned inthe PAD with respect to the
achievement o fthe project development objectives remain valid:

    Continuing and/or newpolitical tensionsinterfere withproject implementation (substantial
    risk). Although anewGovernment is inplace andhas confirmed its commitment to the
    project objectives and independence o f project implementationmechanisms following the
    midterm review,this risk continues to be substantial. The Bank will continue to monitor the
    political situation and closely supervise implementationo f the project, especially giventhe
    highrisk country environment, and inaccordance withthe Project OperationalManual and
    the project's annual operationalplans.

    Technicalministries do not comply with their commitmentstoprovide additional inputs
    (such as teachers) to ensurethe satisfactory operation of the completedcommunal
    infrastructure (moderate risk). Duringthe first two years o f implementationo fthe project,
    technical ministries have consistently complied with their commitments to provide additional
    inputs. Inaddition, the Government has signedanagreement withthe CentralBanko fthe
    Union o f Comoros to ensure the regular payments to civil servants. This will go a longway
    to improving the situation o fteachers, healthworkers and others. FADC will also continue
    to coordinate closely and regularly with line ministries.

    Creditproceeds may not be usedfor their intendedpurposes,financial transactionsmay
   not beproperly accountedfor, and control andprocurementproceduresmay not be
   properly applied (moderate risk). Mitigationmeasures have beentaken, includingthe
   recruitment o f external and internal auditors. Close supervision o f financial management and
    accounting practices o f the project will continue.




                                                    13

Ix. FINANCIAL    TERMSANDCONDITIONSFORTHEADDITIONALFINANCING

52.   The additionalfinancingwill beprovidedas a grant.

x.    CREDIT CONDITIONSAND COVENANTS

   i)ConditionsForEffectiveness
      0  RevisionofProjectOperationalManual;and
      0  Revisionof Administrative andAccountingProceduresManual.

   ii)Covenants
      0  FADC shall maintainrecordsandaccounts inaccordance with soundaccounting
         practices;
      0  Projectfinancial statementswill be auditedby independentauditors acceptableto
         IDA; and
      0  FADCwill produceFMRson a quarterly basis.




                                            14

                                                                            SCHEDULE A
                                                                                Page 1or 1


                                   UNIONOF COMOROS
                           ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE
                              SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT

                              ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
                                   (in US$million equivalent)



               Category                    Local    Foreign     Total     Foreignas YO
                                                                            Oftotal

Grants                                      0.60                 0.60
Works                                       0.45      0.50       0.95        52.63
Goods and Vehicles                                    0.25       0.25        100.00
Consultants' services, including audits     1.30       0.6       1.90        31.58
Training                                    0.20      0.05       0.25        20.00
Incremental operating costs                 0.90                 0.90
Unallocated                                 0.15                 0.15
Total IDA-supportedProject Costs            3.60      1.40       5.00        28.00


                                  SOURCE OF FINANCING
                                   (in US$million equivalent)



                                       Local    Foreign      Total      Percentageof
                                                                     ForeignExpenditures
IDA                                     3.60      1.40       5.00

COMMUNITIES/BENEFICIARIES              0.10       0.10       0.00

Total                                  3.70       1.40       5.10




                                              15

                                                                      SCHEDULEB
                                                                        Page 1of2


                                   UNIONOF COMOROS
                          ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE
                             SERVICES SUPPORT'PROJECT

                        FINANCINGPLAN(by ProjectComponent)
                                  (in US$million equivalent)


ProjectCost By Componentand/or Activity            Local      Foreign    Total

Component 1:Community-based Subprojects            1.5         0.0       1.5
Component2: Capacity Building                      1.3         0.5       1.8
Component 5: Project Monitoring&                   0.8         0.4       1.2
Evaluation, and Audits
Total Baseline Cost                                3.6         0.9       4.5
Contingencies                                      0.0         0.5       0.5
                          TotalProjectCosts        3.6         1.4       5.0
                   Interest during construction
                                 Front-end Fee
                   TotalFinancingRequired          3.6         1.4       5.0


                               DISBURSEMENTSCHEDULE
                                  (in US$million equivalent)


       IDA FY                      2007                  2008          2009

       Annual                        2                    2.5           0.5
     Cumulative                      2                    4.5           5.0




                                              16

                                                                SCHEDULE B
                                                                    Page 2 o f2


        ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OFADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                        (in SDR)




                                                              CreditAmount




                       TOTAL    I   9,000,000I   3,400,000I
* asof reallocation of February 2006




                                           17

                                                                                        SCHEDULE C
                                                                                              Page 1of 1


                                     UNIONOF COMOROS
                              ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE
                               SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT

                              PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
                                        (in US$million equivalent)




                                                                                                     Total




N.I.F. =Not IDA-financed.
Figuresinparenthesisarethe amountsto be financed bythe IDA AdditionalFinancing. Slight differences may
result from roundingoffigures.




                                                    18

f
L:




           "j-
           c
           K
           c

           0
      I




                 .g
                  E
                  .-
                  c




      I


E




    c




         2
   E

     H




x

                                                                                 SCHEDULEE
                                                                                      Page 1o f 2

                                   UNIONOF COMOROS
                          ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFOR THE
                             SERVICES SUPPORTPROJECT

                               PERFORMANCEINDICATORS

Community-BasedSubprojectsand CommunalPilotProjects

Intermediate Outcomes:


   0  By the end o f the Project, at least 70 percent o f the beneficiary communities and
      communes have maintainedtheir sub-project after the implementation.

outputs:


    0 By the end o f the second Project Year, at least 39 Subprojects have been completed, and
      by the endo fthe Project, at least 70 Subprojects have beencompleted.

    0 By the end o f the second Project Year, at least 42 different communities have benefited
      from at least one Grant, and by the end o f the Project, at least 78 different communities
      have benefited from at least one Grant.


   0  By the end o f the Project, at least 90 percent o f beneficiary communities have respected
      the deadline relatedto mobilizing their financial and/or in-kindcontribution for their sub-
      project.


   0  By the end o f the Project, at least 90 percent of beneficiary communities and communes
      have applied the environmental mitigation measures defined inthe sub-project document.


CapacityBuilding

Intermediate Outcomes:


   0  By the end o f the Project, at least 40 communities have executed activities not supported
      bythe Project intheir development plan.

outputs:

      By the end o f the Project, at least 90 percent of the beneficiary communities and
      communes have a development planthat has beenvalidated by the community/commune.




                                               23

                                                                                 SCHEDULE E
                                                                                       Page 2 o f 2



    0 By the end o f the Project, at least 60 percent of the population o f the community has
      participatedindeveloping a community or local development plan.


Health Services

Intermediate Outcomes:

    0 Bythe end o fthe - Coject, at least 90 percent o fhealthpersonnel who havebenefited from
      scholarships under the Project are usingthe knowledge gained from such training.


    0 During implementation o f the project, hospital-related medical equipment supported
      underthe Project i s operationaland maintained ina satisfactory manner.


Urban Water Supply

Intermediate Outcomes:

   0  By the end o f the Project, at least 75 percent o fthe population inthe Project intervention
      areas has access to drinking water withinless than 100meters.

outputs:

   0  By the end of the Project, at least 50 percent of those people inthe Project intervention
      areas having access to drinking water are knowledgeable about water management,
      hygieneand sanitation.

      By the end o f the Project, at least 50 percent of those households in the Project
      interventionpay for the water withinthe agreeddefined deadline.


ProjectMonitoring and Evaluationand Audits


   0  The monitoring and evaluation system allows for an annual review o f the activities o f the
      project and progress on achieving development objectives.


   0  By the end of each Project Year, financial audit reports demonstrate satisfactory
      management o f credit funds.

      By the end of the Project, the Incremental operating costs have not exceeded 15 percent
      ofthe amount o fthe Credit.


                                               24

MAP SECTION


                                                                                               4330'E                                                       4400'E                                 COMOROS
                                                                                                                                              INDIAN               OCEAN
                                                                           Bangoua Kouni                                                                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                            Mitsamiouli
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ADMINISTRATIVE SEATS
                                                                                   Chzani
                                            Djomani                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                           Ntsaouni                                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS

              1130'S                                                 Mbni
                                                                      Mbni                                                                                                         1130'S
                                                                                    Grande
                                             Hahaa                                Comore                                                                                                                       4430'E

                                                                                Itsikoudi
                                                                                    N J A Z I D J A
                                                             Koimbani
                                                                                  Chamoni
                                          Ntsoudjini
                                                                                     Sidjou

                                 MORONI
                                                                      Le Kartala         Tsangadjou

                                          Ikoni                       (2360 m)                                                                                                                                  COMOROS
                                                              Boboni                       Pidjani



                                            Mitsoudj

                                                                             Kourani
                                                                          Dembn
                                                                          Dembn                 Foumbouni



                                                                                                Chindini




              1200'S                                                                                                                                                                                                              1200'S


                                                                                                                                     Mozambique                    Channel
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jimilim
                                                                                                                                                                                 Anjouan                         Hajoho
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ouani

                                                                                                                                                                                           Mutsamudu

                                                                                                                                                                            Bimbini                                  Bambao
                                                                                                                 Moheli                                                            Sima

                                                                                                                        Hoani                                                      N Z WA N I             Ntingi       Domoni
                 0       5       10       15 Kilometers                                                                            Fomboni                                                      Moya   (1595 m)
                                                                                                          Miringoni M WA L I           Djoyzi
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pomoni
                 0            5             10            15 Miles                                             Ouallah       Ziroudani         Hagnamouda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mramani

                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                  Nioumachoua                      Itsamia                                                  Salapouni
DECEMBER                                                                                                                           Sambia
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                             Ma              Hamavouna
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                              Magnougni                                                                                                                       IBRD
                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                 Kanzoni        Chandzi
                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                            Ounfou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               33389
        2004
                                                                                               4330'E                                                       4400'E                                            4430'E

