Page  1
GRANT NUMBER H265-COM 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Services Support Project) 
 
between 
 
UNION OF COMOROS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 21, 2007  
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H265-COM 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 21, 2007, between UNION OF COMOROS 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to three 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000) 
(
“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”); 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  3
-
2
-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION]
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
(b) 
the Manual of Procedures and the Administrative and Accounting 
Procedures Manual have been updated in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
5.03 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance, Budget, Economy, 
Planning and Labor. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
B. P. 324 
 Moroni 
 Comoros 
 
Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
245-MIEF-CAB KO 
             (269) 74 41 40 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Washington DC, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
UNION OF COMOROS 
 
By  /s/ Mahamoud Aboudou 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ Irene Xenakis 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) maintain basic social and economic 
infrastructure to prevent further deterioration in the living conditions of a significant 
number of disadvantaged communities and specific vulnerable groups; and (ii) contribute 
to building the basic capacity of communities and other local actors to conduct a local 
development process. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Community-Based Sub-projects and Communal Pilot Projects
1. 
Promotion, identification, designing, appraisal, supervision and evaluation of 
community initiated activities, and provision of Grants for the financing thereof, for the 
construction and rehabilitation of essential local economic and social infrastructure, 
including, 
inter alia
,
activities relating to: (i) primary education; (ii) basic health services; 
(iii) water supply and sanitation systems; (iv) rural feeder roads; and (v) environmental 
protection and conservation activities. 
2. 
Design, appraisal, supervision and evaluation of Communal Pilot Projects for the 
rehabilitation and maintenance of essential local economic and social infrastructure, 
including, inter alia, activities relating to (i) rural roads; and (ii) environmental protection 
and conservation activities.    
Part B:
Capacity Building
1. 
Strengthening of the technical capacities of local communities and communes to 
develop and carry out local and community development plans in a participatory manner, 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training. 
2. 
Strengthening of the technical capacities of local enterprises, communities and 
communes through the provision of technical advisory services, to improve the quality 
and maintenance of local economic and social infrastructure, including the Sub-projects. 
3. 
Carrying out of information and sensitization campaigns, workshops, training 
and pilot initiatives to benefit, inter alia, local communities, civil society, government 
representatives, civil servants and the general public, regarding, in particular, the Project, 
Page  7
-
6
-
participatory development and decision making processes, good governance, community 
based monitoring and evaluation activities, gender and environmental, health and social 
protection. 
4. 
Supporting FADC to implement the Project through the provision of training, the 
carrying out of study tours and the acquisition of equipment and vehicles. 
Part C:
Health Services
Strengthening of the technical capacities of the health facilities personnel through 
the provision of training in the delivery of quality specialized health care, and the 
acquisition of medical equipment. 
Part D
:
Urban Water Supply
1. 
Rehabilitation and extension of existing urban water networks in Mutsamudu, 
Domoni and Ouani towns on Anjouan island, and Fomboni and Djoiezi towns on Moheli 
island. 
2. 
  Supporting the restructuring of, and strengthening the technical capacities of the 
management committee operating each of such five urban water networks through the 
provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.   
3. 
Carrying out of awareness and sensitization campaigns to the benefit of the 
general population regarding water management, hygiene and sanitation.
 
Part E
:
Project  Monitoring and Evaluation and Audits
1. 
Carrying out the monitoring and evaluation activities under the Procedures 
Manual through the provision of technical advisory services to FADC, the carrying out of 
training and workshops for the FADC staff, communities and Communes, and the 
carrying out of studies. 
2. 
Carrying out financial and technical audits of the Project and FADC through the 
provision of technical advisory services.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009.
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out by the Project Implementing Entity of the Project, 
the
 
Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project 
Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the 
Association
,
which shall include the following (“Subsidiary Agreement”): 
(a) 
the amount allocated to Sub-projects shall be used exclusively to 
finance Sub-projects on a grant basis; 
(b) 
no Sub-project shall be considered for financing under the 
Project except in accordance with the eligibility criteria and terms and 
conditions set forth in the Procedures Manual, the Environmental and 
Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework,
 
and approved by the Recipient and the Association; 
(c) 
goods, works and services required for the purposes of financing  
Sub-projects shall be procured in accordance with the Association’s 
procedures as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and as 
detailed in the Procedures Manual; 
(d) 
any Grant equal to or in excess of fifteen million KMF 
(KMF 15,000,000) shall be approved by the FADC National Executive 
Secretariat; 
(e) 
no Grant shall be in excess of seventy-five million KMF  
(KMF 75,000,000); and 
(f) 
no Sub-project shall be executed under Part A.1 of the Project  
unless a Financing Agreement has been concluded between FADC and 
the concerned Beneficiary, setting forth the respective obligations of the 
parties there under, including details of disbursement schedules and 
procurement procedures and the amount of the relevant counterpart 
contribution; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(g) 
no Communal Pilot Project shall be executed under Part A.2 of 
the Project unless a Framework Agreement has been concluded between 
FADC and the relevant Commune, setting forth the respective 
obligations of the parties thereunder, including specific arrangements 
for oversight of implementation of activities as well as maintenance 
obligations, as further detailed in the Procedures Manual. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, arrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement of any of its provisions. 
B. Institutional 
arrangements 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Manual, of the Administrative and Accounting Manual, 
of the Resettlement Policy Framework, of the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework, and of the Project Implementation Plans and except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of 
said frameworks, manuals or plans if such amendment or waiver may, in the 
opinion of the Association materially or adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the positions of National Project Director, 
Regional Project Directors, financial management specialists, procurement 
specialists, internal auditors, monitoring and evaluation personnel, and 
environmental and social specialist at FADC shall be kept filled at all times by 
persons having qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to 
the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the concerned Recipient
’s Ministries and agencies 
shall collaborate with FADC for the compliance with the provisions of the 
Procedures Manual, the Accounting and Administrative Procedures Manual, the 
Project Implementation Plans, the Environmental and Social Management 
Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework, in particular with respect to 
the appointment of individuals whose experience, positions and performance are 
satisfactory to the Association, and who shall assist FADC in ensuring  proper 
implementation of the Project and consistent application of the Recipient’s 
sectoral policies . 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:  
-
By the end of the second Project Year, at least 39 Sub-projects have been 
completed, and by the end of the Project, at least 70 Sub-projects have 
been completed. 
-
By the end of the second Project Year, at least 42 different communities 
have benefited from at least one Subsidiary Grant, and by the end of the 
Project, at least 78 different communities have benefited from at least 
one Subsidiary Grant. 
-
By the end of the Project, at least 70% of the beneficiary communities 
and communes have maintained their Sub-project after the 
implementation. 
-
By the end of the Project, at least 90% of beneficiary communities have 
respected the deadline related to mobilizing their financial and/or in-kind 
contribution for their Sub-project. 
-
By the end of the Project, at least 90% of beneficiary communities and 
communes have applied the agreed environmental mitigation measures.  
-
By the end of the Project, at least 40 communities have executed 
activities not supported by the Project in their development plan.  
-
By the end of the Project, at least 90% of the beneficiary communities 
and communes have a development plan that has been validated by the 
community/commune. 
Page  11
-
10
-
-
By the end of the Project, at least 60% percent of the population of the 
community has participated in developing a community or local 
development plan. 
-
By the end of the Project, at least 90% of health personnel who have 
benefited from scholarships under the Project are using the knowledge 
gained from such training. 
-
During implementation of the project, hospital-related medical 
equipment supported under the Project is operational and maintained in a 
satisfactory manner.  
-
By the end of the Project, at least 75 percent of the population in the 
Project intervention areas has access to drinking water within less than 
100 meters. 
-
By the end of the Project, at least 50 percent of those people in the 
Project intervention areas having access to drinking water are 
knowledgeable about water management, hygiene and sanitation. 
-
The monitoring and evaluation system allows for an annual review of the 
activities of the project and progress on achieving development 
objectives.   
-
By the end of each Project Year, financial audit reports demonstrate 
satisfactory management of Financing funds.   
-
By the end of the Project, the incremental operating costs have not 
exceeded 15 percent of the amount of the Financing. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  12
-
11
-
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All c
onsultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c) Procurement from UN Agencies 
(d ) Community Participation 
Page  13
-
12
-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procure
ment of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 Other 
Methods 
of 
P
rocurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Selection based on consultants’ qualifications
 
(b)  Single Source Selection 
(c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of 
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  14
-
13
-
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
1. Grants for Sub-projects 
406,000 
 
100% of amounts 
disbursed 
2. Works 
642,000 
 
100% 
3. Goods and vehicles 
 
170,000 
 
100% 
4. Consultants’ services, 
including audits 
1,290,000 
 
100% 
5.  Training 
 
170,000 
 
100% 
6.  Incremental Operating 
Costs 
620,000 
 
100% 
7.  Unallocated 
102,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
3,400,000 
======= 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Page  15
-
14
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Accounting and Administrative Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted 
by the FADC Central Coordination Committee (as hereinafter defined) on  
March 4, 2004 outlining the accounting policies and administrative procedures, 
guidelines and arrangements which shall be followed by FADC in the 
implementation of the Project, referred to in paragraph A.2 of the Schedule  to 
the Project Agreement, and as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes any schedules to the Accounting and Administrative 
Procedures Manual. 
2. 
“Beneficiary” means a community-based organization established and operating 
under the laws of the Recipient, which has met the eligibility criteria set out in 
the Procedures Manual (as hereinafter defined) and the requirements of 
paragraph B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement and, as a result, has 
received or is entitled to receive a Grant (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying 
out of a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined). 
3. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Communal Pilot Project” means activities for the rehabilitation and maintenance 
of essential local economic and social infrastructure to be carried out at the 
communal level on the basis of an agreement to be entered into between FADC 
and the relevant Commune, referred in Section C of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement. 
5. “Commune” 
means 
mairies
,
an administrative entity of the Recipient established 
pursuant to Decree No 05-35/PIAN dated April, 11, 2005, Decree 
 
No 05-36/PIAM dated July, 22, 2005 and Law No 99-001 dated 
 
November 27, 1999. 
6.  “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
7.   “Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the document, 
satisfactory to the Association, outlining the modalities for environmental 
screening and social analysis and defining the rules and procedures for the 
preparation and implementation of environmental assessments to be complied 
Page  16
-
15
-
with, as the case may be, prior to carrying out a Sub-project or water supply civil 
works under Part D of the Project. 
8.  
“FADC Central Coordination Committee” means the central coordination 
committee under Chapter I of the Recipient’s Decree No. 93-068/PR dated  
April 13, 1993 as modified by the Recipient’s Decree No. 01-119/CE dated 
October 22, 2001 and the Recipient’s Decree No. 03-013/PR dated 
 
January 28, 2003, responsible for 
inter alia
 the establishment of the policies of 
FADC, approval of the Procedures Manual and the Accounting and 
Administrative Procedures Manual, and approval of the annual work programs 
and budgets of FADC, and referred to  in paragraph  A.1 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement. 
9. “FADC National Executive Secretariat” means the national secretariat 
established under Chapter II of the Recipient’s Decree No. 93-068/PR 
 
dated April 13, 1993 as modified by the Recipient’s Decree No. 01-119/CE  
dated October 22, 2001 and the Recipient’s Decree No. 03-013/PR dated  
January 28, 2003, responsible for the management and day to day operation of 
FADC. 
10. “FADC Regional Committee” means the committee established in each of the 
three islands comprised in the Recipient’s territory, under Chapter III of the 
Recipient’s Decree No. 93-068/PR dated April 13, 1993 as modified by the 
Recipient’s Decree No. 01-119/CE dated October 22, 2001 and the Recipient’s 
Decree No. 03-013/PR dated January 28, 2003, responsible 
inter alia
 for the 
development of regional community development strategies and validation of 
annual regional work programs. 
11. “FADC Regional Executive Secretariat” means the regional secretariat 
established in each of the three islands comprised in the Recipient’s territory 
under Chapter IV of the Recipient’s Decree No. 93-068/PR dated April 13, 1993 
as modified by the Recipient’s Decree No. 01-119/CE dated October 22, 2001 
and the Recipient’s Decree No. 03-013/PR dated January 28, 2003, responsible 
for 
inter alia
 the preparation of annual regional work programs, provision of 
technical assistance and training to local communities, communes and civil 
society as needed, the appraisal, supervision and impact evaluation of Sub-
projects located in the island where the regional secretariat is established, and 
referred to in paragraph  A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
12.  “Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between FADC 
and a Beneficiary for the purposes of carrying out and financing a Sub-project
.
Page  17
-
16
-
13. 
“Framework Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between FADC 
and a Commune for the purposes of carrying out a Communal Pilot Project. 
14. “Franc de l’Union des Comores” or “KMF” means the currency of the Recipient. 
15. “General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
16.  “Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted by the FADC Central 
Coordination Committee on March 2, 2004 outlining the administrative, 
financial, procurement, technical and organizational policies, procedures, 
guidelines and arrangements which shall be followed by FADC in the 
implementation of the Project, referred to in paragraph A.2 of the Schedule  to 
the Project Agreement, and as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes any schedules to the Procedures Manual; 
17. “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
18. “Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 1, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
19. “Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and FADC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;  
20. “Project Implementation Plan” means the annual plan which shall be followed by 
FADC in the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation 
Plan;  
21. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means FADC or 
Fonds d’Appui au 
Développement Communautaire
,
a
governmental organization with financial and 
administrative autonomy established and operating under the laws of the 
Recipient. 
22. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Presidential Ordinance 
No. 93-001/PR 
dated January 6, 1993, 
Decree 
No. 
93-068/PR 
dated  
Page  18
-
17
-
April 13, 1993 as modified by its Decree No. 01-119/CE dated October 22, 2001 
and Decree No. 03-013/PR dated January 28, 2003. 
23. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the document, satisfactory to the 
Association, defining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and 
rehabilitation of displaced persons under a Sub-project; 
24. “Sub-Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by FADC out of the 
proceeds of the Financing to finance a Community-based Sub-project; 
25.  “Sub-project” means a specific activity financed, or proposed to be financed, 
through a Grant under Part A.1 of the Project. 
26. “Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
