                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29311

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (CPL-39230 SCL-3923A IDA-27630)

                                                  ON A

                           LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$167.0 MILLION

                                            AND A CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.9 MILLION (US$25.0 MILLION)

                                                    TO

                                                  INDIA

                                                   FOR

                             THE BOMBAY SEWAGE DISPOSAL PROJECT




                                              June 15, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective December 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
                       Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.02146
                      US$ 1.00 = Rs. 46.60

                        FISCAL YEAR
                     April 1     March 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
     Bombay        All references to "Bombay" should be replaced by "Mumbai"
     BOD           Biochemical Oxygen Demand
     BSDP          Bombay Sewage Disposal Project
     CBO           Community Based Organization
     EA            Environmental Assessment
     FY            Fiscal Year
     GIS           Geographical Information System
     GOI           Government of India
     GOM           Government of the State of Maharashtra
     ICB           International Competitive Bidding
     ICR           Implementation Completion Report
     IDI           Institutional Development Impact
     Lcd           Liters per capita and day
     MCBM          Municipal Corporation of Brihan Mumbai (Greater Mumbai)
     MDGs          Millennium Development Goals
     MMR           Mumbai Metropolitan Region
     NA            Not Available
     NCB           National Competitive Bidding
     NEERI         National Environmental Engineering Research Institute
     NGO           Non Governmental Organization
     PPM           Parts Per Million
     QAG           Quality Assurance Group
     SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
     SCADA         Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
     SS            Suspended Solids
     SSP           Slum Sanitation Program
     SUMC          Sewerage Utility Management Center
     WSSD          Water Supply and Sewerage Department

                 Vice President:    Mr. Praful C. Patel
              Country Director      Mr. Michael F. Carter
               Sector Manager       Ms. Sonia Hammam
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Mr. Shyamal Sarkar

                                            INDIA
                        BOMBAY SEWAGE DISPOSAL PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex 8. Overview of Project's Scope and Results                                 22
Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            25

Project ID: P010480                                                  Project Name: BOMBAY SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Team Leader: Shyamal Sarkar                                          TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BOMBAY SEWAGE DISPOSAL                                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-39230; SCL-3923A;
                                                                                                     IDA-27630
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Sewerage (95%); Sanitation (5%)
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (P); Access to urban services
                            for the poor (P); Other urban development (P); Municipal finance (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/15/1990                                     Effective: 10/06/1995                03/22/1996
     Appraisal: 03/06/1995                                         MTR: 09/01/1999                  12/18/1999
      Approval: 07/06/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF INDIA/MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF BRIHAN MUMBAI
                                           (MCBM)
                      Other Partners:      NA

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:                 Sonia Hammam                                   Robert Panfil
Team Leader at ICR:             Shyamal Sarkar                                 William Roach
ICR Primary Author:             Klas B. Ringskog


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Quality at Entry was rated by QAG as 'Marginally Satisfactory'.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), dated June 12, 1995, lists the original project objectives as:
(a) Strengthening the capacity of MCBM's Water Supply and Sewerage Department (WSSD) in all aspects of the
      management of the provision of sewerage services including planning, design, construction supervision
      including material and construction quality management, operation and maintenance;
(b) Sustaining the financial viability of the provision of water supply and sewerage services in Brihan Mumbai
      through direct charges to beneficiaries at appropriate levels;
(c) Improving the health and environmental conditions in Brihan Mumbai through the construction of sewerage
      works improvements so designed and constructed as to conveniently and economically permit a further level of
      such improvements in the future; and
(d) Improving the health and environmental conditions for a significant portion of the slum dwellers of Mumbai
      through the construction of sustainable sanitation improvement facilities, mainly for safe excreta disposal, of a
      kind and nature determined in consultation with the prospective beneficiaries.

The Credit Agreement (2763 IN) lists three project objectives. These are:

(i) Strengthen the Corporation's capacity in all aspects of the management of the provision of sewerage services;
(ii) Sustain the financial viability of the provision of water supply and sewerage services in the jurisdiction of the
      Corporation, and
(iii) Improve the health and environmental conditions in the jurisdiction of the Corporation, including the slum
      dwellers.

Assessment: The objectives were clear and responded to the needs to satisfy the project institutional feasibility (first
objective), its financial feasibility (second objective); and its economic and environmental feasibility (third and
fourth objective). The technical feasibility was unknown in the early stages of the project and prompted the Bank to
carefully study the optimal outfall solution for the project. The political feasibility of an early project design was
tested at public hearings on the project's environmental impact. Segments of Mumbai's civic society vigorously
criticized the original project that focused primarily on pumping stations, aerated lagoons and the construction of
submarine outfalls to dispose of sewage from already sewered neighborhoods. The critics demanded that some
attention be given to Mumbai's 5.5 million slum dwellers who largely lacked adequate and sustainable sanitation,
i.e. sanitary excreta disposal. As a result of the criticism the fourth objective was added with corresponding
activities in project components which vastly improved the project's political feasibility and socio-economic design.
The Slum Sanitation Program (SSP) arguably responded to the highest priority socio-economic needs in Mumbai.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The original components as described both in the SAR and in the Loan Agreement comprised:

Part A: Physical Components

(1) The construction of about 3 km long and about 3.5 meter in diameter marine outfall in submarine tunnel at
      Worli and a similar outfall at Bandra.
(2) The construction of a pumping station at Bandra.
(3) The construction of aerated lagoons at Ghatkopar and Bhandup.
(4) The construction of facilities to prevent siltation of the influent tunnel at Ghatkopar.
(5) The rehabilitation of the existing Ghatkopar tunnel.
(6) The implementation of slum sanitation schemes.
(7) The construction of additional structural features to improve the stability of five existing sewage pumping
      stations.
(8) The implementation of a program of improvement to the existing conveyance system.



                                                          - 2 -

Part B: Technical Assistance and Training

Provision of technical assistance and training for:

(1) Supervision of construction of the works to be carried out under Parts A (1) through (5) and (7);
(2) Upgrading the operation and maintenance practices and facilities for the Corporation's sewerage system to
     acceptable levels;
(3) Implementing topographic and condition surveys for the Corporation's conveyance system and formulating a
     program of improvements to said system;
(4) Carrying out of social and physical surveys, the formulation of investment proposals, implementation and
     management, and for independent monitoring and evaluation in respect of the slum sanitation schemes; and
(5) Carrying out of feasibility studies for the second stage sewage treatment and disposal facilities in the service
     areas of Malad, Versova, Bhandup, Ghatkopar, Bandra, Worli and Colaba and completing detailed
     engineering designs for sewage treatment and disposal facilities in said service areas.

3.4 Revised Components:
Part A was revised to include rehabilitation of a tunnel to collect sewage and transport it to the Bandra pumping
station; and the rehabilitation of the existing Ghatkopar tunnel was replaced by the construction of a higher-level
tunnel because a new and higher-level tunnel proved to be less costly than the contemplated rehabilitation of the
existing Ghatkopar tunnel.     Part B was revised to include a training component; and carrying out detailed
engineering designs for the second stage sewage treatment and disposal was deferred to be taken-up separately on
confirmation of funding.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time of appraisal of the project the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist. However,
subsequently QAG assessed the project on two occasions. The first was in 1998 where, as part of a post-approval
quality-at-entry/quality of supervision assessment, the project was assessed along with another three water supply
and sanitation projects in the South Asia region. Subsequently in the year 2000, QAG assessed yet again the
project with respect to quality of supervision. The QAG assessment for the quality-at-entry concluded "the Bank
has not given enough attention to the water supply sector in Mumbai since the first project in the early 70s,
particularly on the institutional aspects. The result today is that we still have the same legal and institutional
framework with limited autonomy and we have been unable to assist MCBM to evolve in the right direction. We
have missed the opportunity of using MCBM's important financial base to transform WSSD into a world class
water utility. For these reasons I suggest that Quality at Entry be rated Marginally Satisfactory. "

It should be remembered that the Bombay Sewage Disposal Project (BSDP) followed three earlier Bank water
supply and sewerage projects to Mumbai, and as a consequence of the relative failures of the preceding three
projects, the BSDP, attempted to complete the sewerage components that had not been implemented under the
previous projects. The Bank preparation seems to have proceeded in a fairly deterministic fashion with a narrow
technical focus. However, in order to safeguard against larger-than-expected project cost increases, loan
negotiations were conditioned on a completed bid evaluation and proposed award of the major component, the two
submarine outfall tunnels, and loan effectiveness was conditioned on contract award. The technical project
preparation was focused mostly on the outfalls and other major physical components. The project preparation failed
to focus on such essential aspects as controlling cross connections (sanitary sewage disposed through the storm
water drainage), making an inventory of sewage outfalls via the storm water drainage system; and ensuring that
connection rates would increase to guarantee the necessary sewage flow to the treatment and disposal systems. In a
similar vein, the project design did not address the need to improve the management of the water supply system.

A number of NGOs argued during the public hearings on the proposed project in mid-1994 that the project, as
initially designed, would do little to assist the slum population with resolving their serious deficiency of sanitation.
As a result, the Bank agreed to include a SSP "to be implemented for about one million slum dwellers living on
MCBM land." This project was notional and as late as one month before negotiations a Bank preparatory mission
for this component was sent out. The lack of preparation of the socio-economically most important component is



                                                         - 3 -

illustrated by the fact that little tangible progress was made on its implementation during the first four years of
project implementation.

Project preparation appears to have been heavily weighted towards the project's technical aspects. Yet, only one of
the four project objectives was predominantly technical. The objectives of strengthening the managerial capacity of
the WSSD, and of ensuring its financial sustainability, received less attention. In particular, there is a whiff of
complacency in the assurance that the WSSD financial viability was guaranteed by relying mostly on tariff
increases. A more balanced approach would have been to demand greater efficiency improvements, better
incentives and institutional reforms.

Because of the noted deficiencies, the ICR rates the project Quality at Entry as unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project objectives were as follows:

Objective (a): "Strengthening the capacity of MCBM's WSSD in all aspects of the management of the provision
of sewerage services including planning, design, construction supervision including materials and construction
quality management, operation and maintenance."

The ICR rates that this objective was achieved as the present project did strengthen substantially WSSD's
management capacity in the provision of sewerage services. First, the planning capacity has been helped by the
establishment of a Sewerage Utility Management Center (SUMC) with the task of preparing and updating digitized
maps of the sewerage system. As part of the project, the entire sewerage system was mapped in Geographical
Information System (GIS), including all the manholes. Second, the condition of 150 km of the entire 1,400 km
sewerage system was inspected and was rated in GIS on a five-point scale ranging from "1" denoting being in
excellent condition to "5" denoting collapsed sections. The category "5" sections were subsequently all
rehabilitated. Third, by working closely with supervision consultants, the supervision and construction quality
management capacity have significantly improved.         Fourth, the operational capacity was improved with the
procurement of laboratory and safety equipment, of sewer cleaning equipment and through training courses. A
training center was established at the Love Grove pumping station and total of 36 training courses were organized,
reaching about 4,000 sewerage staff, usually in short-term courses. Fifth, the maintenance capacity was enhanced
through the procurement of safety and sewer-cleaning equipment that was put to use and through stepped-up pace
of rehabilitation of existing sewers.

On the water supply side, although not being part of the original project, Bank supervision missions were
successful in promoting reform in order to enhance the financial sustainability. Effective 2001 all billings were
computerized and decentralized to the 24 wards of the distribution system. The improved commercial systems were
backed up by expanded metering and by the establishment of a customer facilitation center. The accounting system
was similarly computerized. Finally, although the BSDP did not finance it, the Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition (SCADA) operations center that had been designed under the Third Bombay Water Supply and
Sewerage Project became fully operational during the course of the present project.

Further strengthening of WSSD's capacity will depend on organizational reforms where the present
compartmentalized thinking is replaced by integrated planning, investments and operations. In particular, there
seems to be a disconnect between the provision of water supply and sewerage services. Similarly, objectives seem to
be centered around the construction of individual components of the water supply and sewerage systems rather
than ensuring that these components be developed along an integrated plan and be put to optimal use. The target
must be to make WSSD fully accountable for the quality and coverage of service to its clients. Such accountability
is only meaningful if it is matched by incentives and autonomy for the WSSD to improve service. This is not
contemplated at the present time. WSSD still operates as a risk-averse government agency, where staff is promoted
on the basis of seniority and where the political power is retained by the elected political representatives.
Performance targets are seldom explicit and do not seem to be used to reward superior performance or sanction



                                                         - 4 -

inferior performance. In this respect, WSSD, although arguably premier among water supply and sewerage
agencies in India, continues to lag modern utilities in developed countries and in the leading edge developing
countries.

Objective (b): "Sustaining the financial viability of the provision of water supply and sewerage services in
Greater Mumbai through direct charges to beneficiaries at appropriate levels."

The ICR rates that this objective was achieved in a narrow sense of stated improvements such as full coverage of
operating expenditures, improved collection efficiency (from 85% current demand in 1997-98 to 96.4% in
2002-03), some capacity to invest through internal cash generation (Rs. 483 million in 1996-97 to 2,568 million in
2002-03), regular tariff increases, reduction of cross subsidies from commercial to domestic consumers (the ratio
was reduced to 6.3 in 2002-03 from 36 existed in 1996-97). The financial working ratio of WSSD has consistently
remained around 0.5, i.e. cash operating expenditures (excluding depreciation) have been half that of cash
operating revenue. However, this margin has been maintained primarily through regular tariff increases. The most
common measurement of efficient commercial management is the unaccounted water that measures the proportion
of produced water that is metered and subsequently generates revenue. According to the monitoring indicators
unaccounted water decreased from 29% in 1996 to 23% in 2003. However, the decrease is deceptive since a large
share of the water meters are non-operational. In 2003 about 58% of domestic water meters and about 47% of
non-domestic meters were non-operational. As a consequence, "metered" consumption for these connections were
estimated on the basis of historical consumption levels. However, the situation did arguably improve since 91% of
domestic meters and 68% of non-domestic meters were non-operational in 1996. The collections percentage (actual
collections/billings) dropped during the early part of the project, but subsequently rose to over 96% as a result of
the measures instituted under the project.

Objective (c):     "Improving the health and environmental conditions in Greater Mumbai through the
construction of sewerage works improvements so designed and constructed as to conveniently and economically
permit a further level of such improvements in the future"; and

The ICR rates that this objective was mainly achieved. The project was expected to improve environmental
conditions in two ways: first through completing the works that had been commenced under the earlier projects to
collect sewage, provide preliminary treatment and then dispose of the degritted sewage three kilometers off-shore;
and second through transporting sewage to lagoons to be constructed at Bhandup and Ghatkopar. The investments
were all concluded and the individual schemes are operating. The effect from the Bhandup and Ghatkopar lagoons
is clear with reductions of the Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) of 75% and 70%, respectively. These
reductions are lower than what those in the Versova lagoon (89%). The explanation for the low reduction is likely
due to relatively diluted strength of the incoming sewage, a consequence of the lag in connecting sewered houses to
the interceptor tunnels leading to the lagoons. However, both Bhandup and Ghatkopar effluent standards comply
with the standards of the Maharashtra state that are 100 PPM for BOD and 100 PPM for suspended solids (SS). It
is estimated that only about 61% of the population living in formal housing are actually connected. In the slums
only 1% of the population is connected to sanitary sewerage.

From the operation of the Worli outfall, the near-shore water has improved from the aesthetic point of view. The
levels of dissolved oxygen, bacteriological contamination, and of BOD in parallel lines near-shore, 1 km, 3 km and
5 km away from the west coast of Mumbai were studied. The findings are that only along the 1 km line there is a
noticeable improvement. Significantly, there is no near-shore bacteriological improvement which is explained by
the presence of seven major storm water outfalls from large areas where the population dispose of their sanitary
sewage via the storm-water drainage. Work has belatedly started to intercept these outfalls that have prevented the
large investments in marine outfall tunnels to produce the full benefits. The project did enhance the effectiveness
of the sanitary sewerage system through rehabilitation of major trunk sewers and through providing sewer missing
links using micro-tunneling technology.

Objective (d): " Improving the health and environmental conditions for a significant portion of the slum
dwellers in Mumbai through the construction of sustainable sanitation improvement facilities, mainly for
excreta disposal, of a kind and nature determined in consultation with the prospective beneficiaries."



                                                        - 5 -

The ICR rates that this objective is achieved. The SAR objective does not quantify the target population but the
SAR does refer in an annex to a target of about one million slum dwellers living on MCBM land. This target was
subsequently revised at the mid-term review to aim at providing half a million slum dwellers with adequate and
sustainable sanitation. On March 31, 2004 it was estimated that about 368,000 slum dwellers were using 219 toilet
centers managed by Community Based Organizations (CBO) and when all the 333 toilet centers initiated under the
Project are completed (expected by September 2004) a total of about 560,000 will have access to toilets. This is a
significant accomplishment and has ignited a drive for other slum dwellers to organize and request similar toilet
centers. The CBO-based toilet centers combine sanitary excreta disposal with the provision of continuous water
supply for hygiene and at times health education to achieve an impact on the health of the slum populations. The
SSP has been adopted by the MCBM as their standard procedure for providing sanitation in the slums in Mumbai.
But more important achievement has been that the GOM has also adopted the demand-led participatory approach
for the provision of sanitation facilities in slums in the Maharashtra state.

Considering that the four objectives were achieved the ICR rates the project outcome as "satisfactory".

4.2 Outputs by components:
The following sections discusses the output.          Annex 8 provided an overview of the project's scope and
implementation results.

Component 1: Physical Works. This component included construction of a 3 km long and 3.5 meter diameter
marine outfall in submarine tunnel at Worli and a similar outfall in Bandra; a major sewage pumping station at
Bandra, aerated lagoons at Ghatkopar and Bhandup; facilities to overcome siltation in an influent tunnel at
Ghatkopar, rehabilitation of an existing tunnel at Ghatkopar; implementation of Slum Sanitation Schemes;
improving stability of five sewage pumping stations and conveyance system improvements.                     During
implementation, the works of silt mitigation measures for the influent tunnel and rehabilitation of the existing
tunnel at Ghatkopar were dropped and replaced by a new tunnel which was a cheaper and efficient option.
Rehabilitation of a tunnel at Bandra which had been built under an earlier project was included for conveyance of
sewage from Bandra zone to influent pumping station. The scope of slum sanitation schemes was revised at
Mid-Term to cover about 500,000 slum dwellers. Of the 333 schemes taken-up for implementation, 219 were
completed and are operated by CBOs benefiting an estimated 368,000 people as of March 31, 2004. All the
investments were satisfactorily concluded within the project costs and the individual schemes are operating. All
applicable Bank safeguard policies were fulfilled, except for bringing back the families affected by shaft 2 of
influent tunnel at Ghatkopar from the temporary site to the original site.

Component 2: Technical services for Component 1. This component of the project included several consulting
services and achieved highly satisfactory results. It enabled, MCBM to install an operation and management
system for the sewerage, establish SUMC supported by a GIS for sewerage system, determine technology for
rehabilitation of old trunk sewers, provide missing links for sewerage coverage, identify the weak appurtenances in
the sewerage system, and develop an implementation action plan for slums sanitation schemes. Consulting services
in the design and supervision (in varying degree from `Engineer's Representative' to `Advisory') of the complex
works such as marine outfalls, pumping stations, aerated lagoons, rehabilitation/construction of tunnel, and
supervision of the use of trenchless technology produced highly satisfactory quality of construction and equipped
MCBM engineers with the knowledge of supervision and quality management. Through these services several new
technology were introduced in India, such as, segmental lining for tunnel, microtuneling and pipe-jacking for
sewer installation, pipe bursting for sewer replacement, and sewer rehabilitation by lining.

Component 3: Preparation of Stage 2 Sewerage Investments. The scope of this component was revised during
implementation to include in one single study the feasibility of second stage sewerage improvement in the entire
city. This has been satisfactorily completed. However, the study of detailed engineering designs has been deferred
by MCBM and is to be undertaken when the investment funding will be available. Looking to the complexity
involved in the detailed engineering study and the prudence of including supervision and project management
along with detailed engineering under one contract, the decision appeared right.




                                                           - 6 -

It is instructive to analyze the actual project expenditure of each group of components as they relate to the
achievement of each of the four project objectives as shown in Table 1 below:

     Table 1 Shares of Total Project Cost by Component and by Objectives

     Objective                       Relevant             Total Cost        Share of Cost    Socioeconomic Cost
                                     Components           (Rs. Millions)                     Effectiveness
     "Build WSSD Sewerage            B 2 and 3                 2,330              20%                High
     Management Capacity"
    "Sustain the financial           None            at         NA                NA                 High
    viability"                       appraisal
    "Improve health and              A 1-5, 7-8 and B          8,830              74%              Medium
    environmental conditions"        1 and 5
    "Improve health and              A 6 and B 4                700               6%               Very high
    environmental conditions of
    slum dwellers"
     Total                                                    11,860             100%              Medium



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic rate-of-return has been calculated because none was calculated at appraisal. However, Table 1 above
does provide a rough estimate of the relative cost-effectiveness of each of the four groups of components. The
socio-economic cost effectiveness of the SSP is very high, and is followed by the high cost effectiveness of the
"sewerage management capacity" and "financial viability" components. The immediate impact of the very large
component to complete the outfall tunnels must be rated as medium, given the modest improvement of the
near-shore waters. The simple analysis underlines the unsatisfactory quality-at-entry of the project. It also indicates
that more funding for the second objective of sustaining the financial viability of WSSD would be justified. The
Bank project provided none, however. It was only during supervision that paid more attention to better metering,
and to the decentralization of billings and collections to the ward level.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate-of-return has been calculated because none was calculated at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact (IDI) of the entire project is rated as "substantial". The IDI stands for the
extent to which the project has improved WSSD's and India's ability to make effective use of its human and
financial resources. On the positive side the project supervision did result in changed commercial procedures where
billings and collections are handled at the ward level which should favor the financial viability of the WSSD. The
considerable reductions in WSSD staffing levels from 22,500 on March 31, 1997 to 15,600 on March 31, 2003
should have produced a better use of human resources but they cannot be attributed to the project. Rather the staff
reductions were the result of a nationwide hiring freeze in the public sector. The staff numbers do not seem to have
been accompanied by reorganizations, more vigorous training programs or changed incentives for staff to perform.
It is significant that the project design did not address the issue of institutional improvements on the water supply
side. Similarly, the SAR also failed to provide funds for the training programs that would be needed to underpin
the strengthening of WSSD's capacity to manage its sewerage system. However, active supervision remedied these
design flaws. All the components aimed at strengthening the management capacity of the sewerage system were
implemented with the result that the WSSD sewerage department has gained precise and up-to-date knowledge of
the physical facilities and their condition. Further, the policies sustaining the SSP do imply a radically better use of
both human and financial resources. Rather than rely on the MCBM to manage and maintain the community toilet
blocks, the SSP set up CBO that manage and maintain the SSP toilet blocks. The IDI under the SSP must be rated
as very high. Concluding, the average IDI for the project is rated as "substantial".




                                                           - 7 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no significant macroeconomic factors that affected the project implementation or outcome. The
Mumbai regional economy, like the overall Indian economy, improved over the project period but the changes did
not materially influence the project. Bank performance during supervision contributed positively to efficient and
effective project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The financing of the project investments came from two sources, the proceeds of the IDA credit and Bank loan,
and from WSSD's internal cash generation. The Bank/IDA financing was to the Government of India (GOI) which
then onlent the funds to the State Government of Maharashtra (GOM) which in turn onlent the funds to the
MCBM. The Bank group financing was on standard terms to India (a term of 20 years for the Bank loan and 35
years for the IDA credit) whereas the GOI applied its standard financing terms. At the time, these were 11%
annual interest rate and a term of 20 years plus five years grace, applied to 70% of the loan/credit proceeds. The
GOM added a margin of 200 basis points to the central government lending rate which resulted in an annual
interest rate of 13% to the MCBM. Further, the GOM did not pass on the 30% grant element to the MCBM.
During much of the project the GOM was late in passing on the disbursements from the GOI although the delays
do not seem to have slowed project execution. The internal cash generation seems to have been dependable
throughout the project and underpinned by annual tariff increases. In addition there was an effort made to reduce
the high cross-subsidies from industrial and commercial consumers in favor of domestic consumers.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency, MCBM, performed well. Project implementation was fairly close to what had been
planned and the one-year extension of the loan closing date was caused by minor delays in procurement of
components necessary to commission the Bandra outfall and the Ghatkopar sewage treatment lagoons and to
advance further in the implementation of the SSP.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The costs and financing of the project are detailed in Annex 2. The project costs were US$ 273.2 million of which
the Bank financed US$ 155.7 million (57%) and the remainder US$ 117.5 million (43%) was financed by the
WSSD from internal cash generation. However, if the costs of those non-Bank funded elements of the project are
included, the WSSD financing share is likely to rise to about 50%. There were some cost savings as compared to
the original estimate. The dollar was stronger than expected against the Indian Rupee during most of the project
implementation period which made the Bank and IDA dollar financing go further. Some contract costs resulted
somewhat lower than appraised and it did not prove necessary to use the entire physical contingencies of 16% that
had been provided for the civil, mechanical and electrical works. As a result of the cost savings, it was possible to
cancel US$ 10.0 million of the Bank loan in June 2000, and another US$ 12.0 million in September 2002. The
undisbursed balance of US$ 4.2 million at the end of the loan closing will be canceled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The WSSD is known and stable and its financial working ratio of 0.50 guarantees that the project facilities will
have sufficient funding to pay for operations and maintenance. When including the costs of works for which
MCBM did not request Bank disbursements it is estimated that WSSD financed about 50% of the entire capital
expenditure program from its internal cash generation. The water supply and sewerage tariff was increased
regularly during project implementation and the latest financial projections for WSSD indicate financial
sustainability during the foreseeable future unless major new investment projects are undertaken (and the
sustainability of which must be analyzed and safeguarded individually). The sustainability of the toilet centers
financed under the SSP is also rated as "likely". As of March 31, 2004 all of the some 219 toilet centers
commissioned were being operated and maintained successfully by the CBOs. This represents a significant
accomplishment and attests to the soundness of the design of the SSP. Nevertheless, for long-term sustainability
focus on accountability for service and performance, greater focus on efficiency improvements, better incentives



                                                       - 8 -

and institutional reforms will be required. Concluding, the sustainability of the project is rated as "likely".

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are no special transition arrangements necessary. The WSSD has already commissioned the physical works
financed under the project and is operating them successfully.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during preparation is rated as "unsatisfactory". As detailed in the section on quality-at-entry the
project, as appraised included four objectives. However, it failed to provide loan components for such important
categories as "training" to strengthen the management capacity of the WSSD sewerage system (first project
objective) and to provide any components at all to sustain the financial viability of the water supply and sewerage
operations (second objective). The components associated with improving the environmental condition of the
Arabian sea (third objective) failed to analyze in a systematic way from where and how the polluting sewage flows
reached the sea. Finally, the improvement of the environmental condition and state of health in the slums (the
fourth objective) was added just prior to negotiations. The design of this component is best described as notional. It
is not surprising that only four years into the project implementation period were the first toilet centers
commissioned. Good project preparation requires that there is a congruence between objectives, components, and
conditionality (if needed.). This did not hold true for the project and justifies the "unsatisfactory" rating of Bank
performance during preparation. In total, the Bank expended US$ 543,200 for project preparation, corresponding
to 0.2% of the appraised project cost.

7.2 Supervision:
The "unsatisfactory" Bank performance during lending was compensated for by Bank supervision that is rated as
"highly satisfactory". A total twenty Bank supervision missions were made (see Annex 4). The missions would
usually represent up to five different professionals and in particular sociologists who were crucial to prepare and
help launch the SSP. The Bank supervision was greatly facilitated by continuity in the task management and in the
sociological aspects. The continuity created credibility of Bank staff in the eyes of the Borrower. As a result of the
trust built up it proved possible for the Bank supervision missions to redress most of the design flaws (for example,
no project resources devoted to achieve the financial objective) of the project. In particular, training components
were added, substantial reforms were made in the commercial routines of WSSD, a dialogue was started to explore
a pilot scheme to engage a private operator for one of the wards (K-East with one million inhabitants), the
rehabilitation of the Ghatkopar tunnel was replaced by a cheaper higher-level tunnel, and the SSP was prepared
and implemented.      The environmental category "A" project was the subject of a satisfactory environmental
assessment done by MCBM's consultants NEERI who also first established the baseline conditions for the seawater
quality prior to the commissioning of the project, and then evaluated the environmental impact from the
commissioning of the Worli outfall. MCBM may contract with NEERI yet again to evaluate the environmental
impact of the commissioning of the Bandra outfall and to establish a baseline along the urbanized areas north of
Bandra. The baseline would be useful to prepare for future projects that will collect, pre-treat and dispose of the
sewage from the Versova and Malad sections of Mumbai. Procurement followed Bank procurement procedures and
there was no instance of misprocurement. (Annex 2 provides further details on project procurement). Finally, the
financial management safeguards were adequately supervised. In total, the Bank expended US$ 673,800 for project
supervision, or 0.25% of the actual project cost.

QAG assessed quality of supervision twice. The first was in 1998 when post-approval quality-at-entry/quality of
supervision was assessed. Subsequently in the year 2000, QAG assessed yet again the quality of supervision. In
both the assessment the quality of supervision was rated as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as "satisfactory". The "unsatisfactory" performance during lending was offset
by the energetic and timely supervision that is rated as "highly satisfactory".




                                                         - 9 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated as "satisfactory". WSSD and MCBM had experience from three
previous Bank projects which facilitated their involvement in project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government implementation performance was satisfactory with the exception of the GOM that was late on a
number of occasions to transfer the proceeds of the IDA credit and Bank loan to the ultimate borrower, the MCBM.
The latter's performance was good to sustain the project and the water supply and sewerage tariff was increased
regularly to sustain the finances of WSSD and to provide the necessary counterpart funding. Duly audited financial
statements were submitted on time.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementation agency, WSSD, is rated as "satisfactory". However, commitment to bring
back the families affected by shaft 2 of influent tunnel at Ghatkopar from the temporary site to the original site
remained outstanding.      Design changes made to the influent tunnel at Ghatkopar necessitated temporary
resettlement of 135 squatter families to an adjoining site which was reserved in the Development Plan for future
road widening program. In accordance with a resettlement plan prepared by MCBM for these affected families,
they were to be brought back to the original site after the construction was over by providing improved housing and
access to basic amenities. During the period of construction, 108 families moved out voluntarily. MCBM
informed the Bank recently that they would not bring back the remaining 27 families to the original site due to
safety considerations as fatal accident had occurred due to accidental ignition and explosion of accumulated
inflammable gas in another tunnel shaft during commissioning, and would allow them to continue to stay at the
place where they were temporarily relocated by providing them with all required facilities. The Bank team is
following up with MCBM to ensure that these families receive all facilities which were assured for their return to
the original site, and in the event of displacement on account of road widening they receive the benefits of
resettlement.

The sewerage section in particular performed well and updated its data base, operating procedures and professional
qualifications as a result of the project. WSSD produced its quarterly progress reports on time that, among other
things, tracked and evaluated the monitoring indicators that had been agreed upon with the Bank.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower performance is rated as "satisfactory".

8. Lessons Learned

The project offers four lessons for possible follow-up projects in Mumbai, in India or elsewhere:

Lesson One: Water supply and sewerage projects play a central role in reaching the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs). The targets specify that the present share of the world population lacking safe water supply and
adequate sanitation should be halved by the target year 2015. In order to reach the targets the number of people
benefiting from each water supply and sanitation project should be monitored. In contrast, the BSDP should have
been more precise in identifying the number of people who would benefit from the project. Instead the project
focused more on the implementation of the large capital investment program than on the ultimate objectives of the
project: to improve the environmental and health situation in Mumbai. The project would have been more effective
in providing benefits to the population had it considered how the Mumbai population would receive water service;
how the wastewater would be collected, how it would be transported to treatment works, and finally disposed of.
This was not done. Even today Mumbai lacks precise data on the population connected to its water supply system,
and on the population actually connected to its sewerage system. Water service is provided only three hours on
average per day and affects the poor most of all since they lack the means to pay for the costs in coping with such
an unsatisfactory service. Refocusing the project in the suggested fashion would likely have resulted in a different
project that would have included an effort to manage water demand in order to minimize the quantity of
wastewater produced, and in a project that would have devoted larger resources to actually connecting the



                                                         - 10 -

population to its sewerage system.

Lesson Two: Successive Bank projects to the same borrower should make an effort to advance in parallel between
capital investment financing and in policy reform. The BSDP was the fourth project to Mumbai and its design
could have promoted a closer integration between the water supply and sewerage sections of the Water Supply and
Sewerage Department and concerning measures to raise the autonomy and accountability of its activities. As it
happened, the BSDP design did not make an effort to reform the WSSD organization, to update its tariff policies,
to set performance standards, and to provide incentives for its staff for reaching targets and sanctions for failure to
perform to the prevailing standards.

Lesson Three: The success of the SSP confirms yet again the necessary ingredients in programs to improve the
health and well-being of the poorest segments of the population: a sanitary excreta disposal together with the
provision of a good water supply and of health education. The SSP has demonstrated that slum communities are
willing to organize and pay sufficient fees to guarantee the sustainable operations and maintenance of community
toilets provided that they are involved from the very beginning and are given the responsibility for managing the
community toilets. The SSP also teaches that adequate sanitation must be matched by the provision of a water
supply to meet the hygiene needs of the communities and by health education programs that focus foremost on the
children's hygiene habits. When organized in such a demand driven fashion where the community will have the
responsibility of managing and maintaining the toilet facilities, slum sanitation program can be expected to be
sustainable. Further, they can be expected to yield important demonstration effects as evidenced by the fact the GOI
has now adopted a National Sanitation Program that reflects the design and lessons learned in the SSP in Mumbai.

Lesson Four: The importance of quality at entry to achieving objectives and sustainability, and limitations of fully
turning around a poorly prepared project during supervision--despite the fact that supervision in this instance even
without formal restructuring managed to get some firsts in Indian context by paying attention during
implementation to issues that had been neglected in preparation.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A copy of the draft ICR was sent to the MCBM with copy to the Government of India Departments of Economic
Affairs and Urban Development and Government of Maharashtra Water Supply and Sanitation Department on
April 17, 2004 for review and comments by the Borrower and implementing agency. A response was received
from the MCBM commenting on the assessment of objectives (a) and (c) and on lessons one and two, as follows:

Objective (a): MCBM is presently focussing on implementing the physical works, improving the infrastructure
and providing services. On achieving this goal, MCBM will concentrate on providing more satisfactory services to
the citizens.

Objective (c): It is a fact that more than 50% population of Mumbai is staying in slums and not actually
connected to sewerage. MCBM has, therefore, started the implementation of diversion of dry weather flow from
open storm water drains to sewerage with an intention to derive the benefit of marine outfall, from environment
point of view. In addition to this, program of eliminating illegal connections has already started and will be
continued further. Ongoing works under SSP and future works will help to improve the situation further.

Lesson One: Though MCBM lack precise data, MCBM has gathered substantial data by doing Topographical
Survey of sewerage network and mapped in GIS in digitized format. The same is being updated through MCBM's
Sewerage Utility Management Center. Similar type of efforts will be taken on water supply system.

Lesson Two: MCBM, being a quasi-government organization, has to operate within the constitutional provisions,
state laws, MMC Act, directives from Government from time to time including reservation policies and therefore,
performance based promotions/policies can not be applied. However, the promotions are on seniority-cum-merit
basis

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                       - 11 -

NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information




                                             - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

  The project included the obligation of the ultimate borrower, the MCBM, to monitor quarterly 63 indicators of
  project implementation and operations. This number is too large to permit focused analysis and the monitoring
  and reporting seems to have been formal in nature. The fact that neither the SAR, nor the Credit and Loan
  Agreements fixed any targets and benchmarks seems to have reduced the impact of the monitoring indicators
  and their trends and levels. The amended monitoring indicators below represent those that relate to the
  project's objectives of improving the environmental conditions in Mumbai and of ensuring the financial and
  institutional sustainability of the operations.

     Monitoring Indicator                                     March 31, 1997          March 31, 2003 *
     Service Coverage and Quality
     Formal population, million                               5.0                       6.5
     Slum population, million                                 5.5                       6.1
     Total population, million                                10.5                      12.6

     Water connections                                        192,000                   346,000
     Formal population per water connection                   26                        14

     Sewerage connections                                     Not available (NA)        275,000
     Formal population per sewerage connection                NA                        18
     Hours of water distribution service/day                  3                         3
     Bacteriological quality of water at production           Safe                      Safe
     Population covered by Slum Sanitation Program            0                         130,000

     Service Efficiency
     Metered water production, million m3                     963                       1,133
     Metered and estimated water consumption, million m3      685                       876 (Year 2001-02)
     Production/formal population, m3/year                    193 (530 lcd)             227 (620 lcd)
     Consumption/formal population, m3/year                   137 (380 lcd)             175 (480 lcd)
     Unaccounted water                                        29%                       23%
     (Metered water production-metered and estimated
     water consumption) /Metered water production

     Employees/thousand water connections                     117                       45

     Service Sustainability
     Collection efficiency (Current demand), Percent          85                        96.4
     Ratio of non-domestic tariff (av.) and doestic tariff    36                        6.3
     (av.)
     Working ratio (Cash operating costs/cash operating       0.48                      0.56
     revenue)
     Share of water consumption treated in wastewater         0                         14% (Bhandup,
     treatment plants                                                                   Ghatkopar, Versova @
                                                                                        110,000 m3/day)
 * Note: WSSD's performance is measured on annual basis and is available at the end of September of the
 following year when audit is completed.




                                                       - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
Component 1: Physical Works                                            207.40              242.50                 115.2
Component 2: Technical Services to Component 1                          17.80               25.00                 140.4
Component 3: Preparation of Stage 2 Investments                         19.90                 5.70                 28.6

Total Baseline Cost                                                    245.10              273.20
 Physical Contingencies                                                 48.70
 Price Contingencies                                                     1.80
                            Total Project Costs                        295.60              273.20
                    Total Financing Required                           295.60              273.20
Apprasial estimate included tax and duty.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                               179.70             55.40               0.00             0.00             235.10
                                      (107.90)           (32.70)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (140.60)
2. Goods                                17.70              0.00               0.00             0.00              17.70
                                       (14.20)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (14.20)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              42.80             0.00              42.80
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (37.20)           (0.00)            (37.20)
   Total                               197.40             55.40              42.80             0.00             295.60
                                      (122.10)           (32.70)            (37.20)           (0.00)           (192.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                               200.00             25.40              0.00             0.00             225.40
                                      (110.00)            (9.86)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (119.86)
2. Goods                                16.80              0.30              0.00             0.00             17.10
                                       (11.93)            (0.25)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (12.18)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00             30.70             0.00             30.70
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (23.66)            (0.00)           (23.66)
   Total                               216.80             25.70             30.70             0.00             273.20
                                      (121.93)           (10.11)           (23.66)            (0.00)          (155.70)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



                                                       - 14 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    Percentage of Appraisal
       Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                          Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Component 1: Physical     163.30    89.50       0.00    131.28     111.22      0.00  80.4   124.3    0.0
Works
Component 2: Technical    13.60     6.20        0.00    18.00       7.00       0.00  132.4  112.9    0.0
Services for Component 1
Component 3: Preparation  15.10     7.90        0.00     5.43       0.27       0.00  36.0    3.4     0.0
of Stage 2 Investments




                                                 - 15 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic rate-of-return was calculated because none was calculated at appraisal.




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/92                     2    FIN. ANALYST (1); ENG. (1)
              10/92                     1    FIN. ANALYST (1)
              03/93                     2    FIN. ANALYST (1); ENG. (1)
              10/93                     2    FIN. ANALYST (1); ENG. (1)
              02/94                     2    FIN. ANALYST (1); ENG.(1)
              06/94                     2    FIN. ANALYST (1); ENG. (1)
              11/94                     2    FIN. ANALYST (1); ENG. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/95                     5    FIN. ANALYST (1); SAN.
                                             ENG. (3); ENV. (1)
              05/95                     6    MUNI. ENG. (1); SAN. SPL.
                                             (1); SAN. ENG. (1); ENV. ENG.
                                             (1) SOCIAL SCIENCE (1);
                                             URBAN DEV. (1)

 Supervision
              10/07/1995                7     SAN. ENG. (2); FIN.              S               S
                                             ANALYST (1); DISB. SPL.
                                             (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); ENG.
                                             (SLUM SAN.) (1)
              06/24/1996                5     SAN. ENG. (2); SOCIOLOGIST       S               S
                                             (1); ENG. (SLUM SAN.) (1);
                                             FIN. ANALYST (1)
              10/31/1996                6    ENV. ENG. (1); SAN. ENG.          S               S
                                             (2); ENG. (SLUM SAN.) (1);
                                             FIN. ANALYST (1); SOC.
                                             SCIENTIST (1)
              07/04/1997                5    ENV. ENG. (1); SAN. ENG. (1);     S               S
                                             ENG. (SLUM SAN.) (1); FIN.
                                             ANALYST (1); SOC.
                                             SCIENTIST (1)
              12/10/1997                7    ENV. ENG. (1); SAN. ENG. (1);     S               S
                                             ENG. (SLUM SAN) (1); FIN.
                                             ANALYST (1); SOC.
                                             SCIENTIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ADVISER (1)
              06/27/1998                3    SAN. ENG. (1); SOC.               S               S
                                             SCIENTIST (1); ENV. SPL. (1)
              09/11/1998                3    SAN. ENG. (1); SOC.               S               S
                                             SCIENTIST (1); ENG. (SLUM
                                             SAN.) (1)
              12/18/1998                6    SAN. ENG. (1); ENV. SPL. (1);     S               S
                                             SOC. SCIENTIST (1); FIN.



                                              - 17 -

                                            ANALYST (1); ENG. (SLUM
                                            SAN.) (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
               04/29/1999              2    SAN. ENG. (1); ENG. (SLUM         S    S
                                            SAN.) (1)
               12/18/1999            10     TTL/SAN. ENG. (1);                S    S
                                            WAT&SAN SPL. (1); ENV. (1);
                                            ENV. (SLUM SAN.) (1); FMS
                                            (1); WATER UTILITY SPL. (1);
                                            SOC. DEV. (2); MUNI. ENG.
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
               06/16/2000              2    TTL/SAN. ENG. (1); SOC.           S    S
                                            DEV. (1)
               12/01/2000              5    TTL/SAN. ENG. (1); SOC.           S    S
                                            DEV. (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            ENV. (1); FMS (1)
               06/20/2001              5    TTL/SAN. ENG. (1); MUNI.          S    S
                                            ENG. (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                            FMS (1); ENV. (1)
               12/12/2001              2    TTL/SAN. ENG. (1); SOC.           S    S
                                            DEV. (1)
               05/24/2002              5    SOC. DEV. (1); ENV. (1);          S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            TTL/SAN. ENG. (1); FMS (1)
               10/10/2002              6    TTL/SAN. ENG. (1); URBAN          S    S
                                            DEV. (1); ENV. SPL. (1);
                                            MUNI. ENG. (1); SOC. DEV.
                                            (1); FMS (1)
               03/03/2003              7    TTL/SAN. ENG. (1); SOC.           S    S
                                            DEV. (1); MUNI. ENG. (1);
                                            ENV. (1); FMS (1); URBAN
                                            DEV. (1); ECONOMIST (1)
               10/17/2003              5    TTL/SAN. ENG. (1); SOC.           S    S
                                            DEV. (1); WAT&SAN. SPL. (1);
                                            ENV. (1); FMS (1)

 ICR
               12/10/2003             4     TTL/SAN. ENG. (1); SOC.           S    S
                                            DEV. (1); ENV. (1);
                                            WATSAN ECONOMIST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             136                           419
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    41                          124
  Supervision                            243                           639
  ICR                                       8                           35
  Total                                  428                          1217




                                            - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Relevant information of supporting Bank and external project documents have been incorporated in the main text
and in annexes. However, the following documents were also analyzed:
1.  Mission aide-memoires.
2.  Office Memo dated August 15, 1998 from Mr. Prem Garg, Director, Quality Assurance Group on
    Post-Approval Quality at Entry/Quality of Supervision Assessment: South Asia Water and Sanitation Projects.
3.  Marine Sewage Outfalls at Mumbai - A Case Study, June 2000, Ambuja Technical Literature Series 53,
    Ambuja Cement, Mumbai.
4.  Memo dated December 2, 2000 from Mr. Prem Garg, Director, Quality Assurance Group on Quality of
    Supervision Assessment (QSA4): Final Assessment.
5.  Urban Notes - Thematic Group on Services to the Urban Poor, The World Bank: Reaching the Urban Poor
    through Sustainable Partnerships: The Slum Sanitation Program in Mumbai, India by Rosanna Nitti and
    Shyamal Sarkar, January 2003.
6.  Various reports and coverage in the Newspapers in Mumbai.




                                                     - 21 -

     Additional Annex 8. [Overview of Project's Scope and Results


Sl. No. Item Description                          Status      Output
COMPONENT 1 - PHYSICAL
WORKS
        Pumping Stations, Treatment and
        Disposal
A.1     Worli and Bandra Outfalls                 Completed   Worli outfall: It is designed for carrying
                                                              760 Mld dry weather flow. It is in use since
                                                              June 15, 1999 and currently conveying 360
                                                              Mld sewage. Sewage volume will
                                                              substantially increase when the ongoing
                                                              works of intercepting and diverting dry
                                                              weather flow form 7 storm drains are
                                                              completed (due January 2005).

                                                              Bandra outfall: Its designed for carrying
                                                              796 Mld dry weather flow. It is in use since
                                                              May 27, 2003 and currently conveying 400
                                                              Mld sewage. Works of connecting local
                                                              sewers are in progress.
A.2     Bandra Pumping Station (Civil,            Completed   Installation for pumping raw sewage to
        Mechanical and Electrical works)                      Waste Water Treatment Facility on way to
                                                              marine disposal through outfall at Bandra.
NEW     Rehabilitation of Bandra Collector        Completed   Commissioned in stages during May 27 
        Tunnel                                                September 18, 2003. It is an essential link
                                                              to convey sewage to pumping station and
                                                              then to Bandra outfall.
A.3.1   Bhandup Lagoons (Civil, Mechanical        Completed   280 Mld capacity lagoon was commissioned
        and Electrical works)                                 on June 3, 2002. Currently, 140 Ml sewage
                                                              is treated per day.
A.3.2   Ghatkopar Lagoons (Civil, Mechanical      Completed   300 Mld capacity lagoon was commissioned
        and Electrical works)                                 on May 23, 2003. Currently, 110 Ml
                                                              sewage is treated per day.
A.4;A.5 Ghatkopar influent tunnel repair          Deleted
NEW     Ghatkopar High Level Tunnel               Completed   Commissioned on May 23, 2003. It is an
        (This work was taken in lieu of repair of             essential link to convey sewage to pumping
        the influent tunnel which was dropped)                station and then to lagoons.
        Slum Sanitation Implementation
A.6.1   Schemes  Lot 1                           Completed   3 toilet blocks with 60 seats completed as
                                                              pilot. The first toilet block is operated and
                                                              maintained by CBO since June 2000. All
                                                              are operated and maintained by CBOs.
A.6.2   Schemes  Lot 2                           Completed   2 schemes of local sewer to connect private
                                                              latrines completed and commissioned in
                                                              early 2001.
A.6.3   Schemes  Lot 3                           Completed   5 toilet blocks completed. CBOs operate
                                                              and maintain them since early 2002.
A.6.4   Schemes  Lot 4                           Completed   One toilet block operated and maintained
                                                              by CBO.
A.6.5   Schemes  Lot 5                           Completed   3 toilet blocks retrofitted in 2002 as pilot.



                                                       - 22 -

                                                              CBOs operate and maintain them.
A.6.6  Schemes  Lot 6                           Partly       75 toilet blocks handed over to the CBOs
                                                 completed    for operation and maintenance. Ongoing
                                                              works for 36 toilet blocks are to be
                                                              completed by September 2004.
A.6.7  Schemes  Lot 7                           Partly       120 toilet blocks handed over to the CBOs
                                                 completed    for operation and maintenance. Ongoing
                                                              works for 78 toilet blocks are to be
                                                              completed by September 2004.
A.6.8  Rehabilitation of Bandra Collector Tunnel Completed    6 toilet blocks with 20 seats in each
       (toilet blocks provided to slum community              constructed. These are operated and
       near the work site)                                    maintained by CBOs since December 2001.
A.6.9  Mobile/shiftable toilets                  Completed    2 mobile toilets and 2 shiftable toilets
                                                              provided as pilot.
A.6.10 Sewer laying to improve slum              Completed    5,256 meter sewers laid in Eastern suburb
       connectivity                                           and 3,823 meter sewers laid in Western
                                                              suburb to provide connectivity to slums.
A.6.11 Segregation of sewage flow from storm     Due to be    7 outfalls in Worli zone will be intercepted.
       water drains in Worli zone                completed by This will diminish the untreated sewage
                                                 January 2005 flow to near shore.
A.7    Stability Restoration  5 Pumping Stations Completed   Functional efficiency improved. In use since
                                                              February 1998.
       Conveyance System Remedial Works
A.8.1  Works: Providing missing links by         Completed    15 missing links provided with aggregate
       microtunneling                                         length of 4,871 meters.
A.8.2  Works: Manholes - Reconstruction,         Completed    170 manholes reconstructed, 529 manholes
       repair and replacement of frames and                   repaired and 3,210 manholes provided with
       covers                                                 frames and covers.
A.8.3  Works: Providing vent shaft and           Completed    48 vent shafts and 817 drop connections
       improvement in drop connections                        provided.
A.8.4  Works: Replacement of sewers by open      Completed    1,495 meter sewers replaced.
       excavation
A.8.5  Works: Sewer rehabilitation by lining     Completed    16,957 meter large trunk sewers lined.
A.8.6  Works: Sewer rehabilitation by pipe       Completed    3,794 meter sewer length rehabilitated.
       bursting/pipe jacking
A.8.7  Works: Modification of grit chambers      Completed    Grit removal efficiency improved in Love
       and air diffusers                                      Grove pumping station.
A.8.8  Equipment: Safety equipment               Completed    Gas monitor, Escape unit and Safety
                                                              harness and Oil-free air compressors
                                                              procured. Safety officers have been
                                                              appointed to train the workers.
A.8.9  Equipment: Sewer Cleaning equipment       Completed    Vehicle mounted - 3 suction-cum-jetting
                                                              (combination unit without recycling), 1
                                                              jetting/suction unit (with recycling), 7
                                                              suction unit (Gully emptier), 5 high velocity
                                                              cleaner (Jetting machines); and 15 power
                                                              bucket sewer cleaning machine procured.
                                                              All of them have been put to effective use.
A.8.10 Equipment: Laboratory equipment           Completed    Sewage quality monitoring laboratory
                                                              capacity enhanced and a routine for sample
                                                              collection, analysis and reporting
                                                              established.



                                                       - 23 -

A.8.11     Equipment: Check valves and Duck-bill    Partly            21 check valves have been installed.
           valves                                   completed         Duck-bill valves procured, installation
                                                                      awaited.
COMPONENT 2 - TECHNICAL
SERVICES FOR COMPONENT 1
B.1        Engineering services for BSDP            Completed         Provided design, supervision and project
                                                                      management services for marine outfalls,
                                                                      pumping stations, aerobic lagoons,
                                                                      construction/rehabilitation of tunnels.
B.2        Studies  Upgrade (Operation &           Completed         Recommended modification to various
           Maintenance Services) Sewerage                             installations in pumping stations,
                                                                      laboratory set-up, maintenance workshops,
                                                                      staff training, and safety of workers.
B.3.1     Studies  Sewerage topographical surveys  Completed         Identified system deficiency and in
                                                                      establishment of SUMC supported by GIS.
B.3.2      Studies  Sewerage condition assessment  Completed         Identified vulnerable sections of the
                                                                      sewerage system and recommended
                                                                      feasibility of diversion of dry weather flow
                                                                      in Worli zone.
B.4.1      Slum sanitation  Program publicity      Completed         Enabled dissemination of the demand-led
                                                                      participatory approach among sections of
                                                                      slum community.
B.4.2      Slum sanitation  Concurrent             Completed         Findings helped in redesigning the slum
           monitoring                                                 sanitation program.
B.4.3      Slum Sanitation Sanitation surveys of    Completed         Map of slum areas with existing sanitation
           slums                                                      facilities made available through this study.
                                                                      Enabled MCBM to relaunch SSP with
                                                                      modification in approach.
B.4.4      Slum sanitation  Preparation of         Completed         Comprehensive sanitation plan for about
           comprehensive plan for Cheeta Camp                         200,000 slum dwellers prepared.
NEW        Sewerage: Services for trenchless        Completed         Technical services including advisory
           technology (microtunneling and sewer                       support provided.
           rehabilitation)
NEW        Studies - Operation and Maintenance of   Completed         Key aspects studied are water audit,
           Water Supply System                                        hydraulic modelling, energy efficiency,
                                                                      adequacy of maintenance, condition
                                                                      assessment of treatment plants,
                                                                      transmission and distribution system, and
                                                                      establishment of Customer Facilitation
                                                                      Center.
COMPONENT 3 - PREPARATION OF
STAGE 2 INVESTMENTS
B.5.1      Stage 2 Feasibility Studies for Sewerage Completed         Sewerage Master Plan for Mumbai for year
                                                                      2025 prepared identifying the priority
                                                                      works and intervention
B.5.2      Stage 2 Detailed Engineering Studies     Deleted
Note: Serial number follows the number indicated under section 3.3 (Original Components)




                                                           - 24 -

Additional Annex 9. [Borrower's Evaluation Report

S.J.Kunte(I.A.S.)                                    Municipal Corporation of Brihanmumbai
Addl Municipal Commissoner

                                                                            No. AMC/P/2754
                                                                            Date: 24.5.2004


                 Sub :-    Mumbai (Bombay) Sewage Disposal Project.
                           (Ln/Cr. 3923/2763-IN)
                           - Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
                           - Borrower's Evaluation Report.

Dear Mr. Rajamani,
         I am enclosing herewith the Borrower's Evaluation Report in respect of World Bank aided Mumbai
Sewage Project (Loan/Credit 3923/2763-IN). You are requested to forward the Report to the World Bank, through
the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India.
         With regards,

                                                                            Yours faithfully,

                                                                                    Sd/-

                                                                             ( S.J.Kunte)

Encl: As above.

Mr.M.Rajamani
Jt. Secretary,
Ministry of Urban Development
& Poverty Alleviation,
Government of India,
Nirman Bhavan,
New Delhi  110 011.

c.c.     Shyamal Sarkar,
         Sr.Sanitary Engineer & Task Team Leader,
         The World Bank,
         70, Lodi Estate, New Delhi  110003, India.

c.c.     Mr. Sunil Bhargava,
         Director,
         Department of Economic Affairs,
         Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India,
         North Block, New Delhi  110 001.

c.c.     Mr. B.C.Khatua,
         Principal Secretary,
         Water Supply & Sanitation Department
         Govt. of Maharashtra, Mantralaya,
         Mumbai  400 032.




                                                     - 25 -

                         MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF BRIHAN MUMBAI

                    WORLD BANK AIDED MUMBAI SEWAGE DISPOSAL PROJECT
                                       (LOAN / CREDIT 3923 / 2763  IN)

                                        BORROWER'S EVALUATION


1.       INTRODUCTION

The Municipal Corporation of Brihan Mumbai (MCBM) has been implementing Integrated Water Supply and
Sewerage Schemes with the assistance from International Development Association / International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, since 1974. Since then, MCBM has implemented Bombay I, Bombay II and
Bombay III Water Supply and Sewerage Projects. The Mumbai Sewage Disposal Project (MSDP) was approved by
the World Bank (WB) on July 6, 1995, for a total loan / credit amount of US$192 million. The original loan
closing date of December31, 2002 was extended by one year to December31, 2003.

The Mid Term Review of the project was carried out in December 1999. The project was restructured and certain
works were added to the project, to utilise the savings. The saving was mainly due to appreciation of US$ with
respect to Indian Rupee and actual expenditure being less than the basic cost for some of the major works. Loan
amount of US$10 million was cancelled in June 2000. The expenditure forecasts were reviewed from time to time.
Accordingly, work-wise targets were revised and project was monitored. A further Loan amount of US$12 million
was cancelled in September 2002.

2.       PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
      In brief, the objectives of MSDP were to :

 i) Strengthen the Corporation's capacity in all aspects of provision and management of sewerage services.
 ii) Sustain the financial viability of provision of water supply and sewerage services in the jurisdiction of the
     Corporation.
iii) Improve the health and environmental conditions in the jurisdiction of Corporation including the slums.

3.       THE PROJECT:

Original Components: The original components as described both in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and in the
Loan Agreement comprised of:

Part A - Physical Components:

1) Construction of about 3.7 km. Long, 3.5 metre diameter marine outfall at Worli and Bandra.
2) Construction of a Pumping station at Bandra.
3) Construction of aerated lagoons at Bhandup and Ghatkopar.
4) Construction of facilities to prevent siltation of the influent tunnel at Ghatkopar.
5) Rehabilitation of the existing Ghatkopar tunnel.
6) Implementation of Slum Sanitation schemes.
7) Construction of additional structural features to improve the stability of five existing sewage pumping stations.
8) Implementation of a programme of improvement to the existing conveyance system.

Part B - Technical Assistance and Training:

Provision of technical assistance and training for:
1) Supervision of construction of the works to be carried out under Parts A (1) through (5) and (7).
2) Upgrading the operation and maintenance practices and facilities for the Corporation's sewerage system to
    acceptable levels.
3) Implementing topographic and condition surveys for the Corporation's conveyance system and formulating a
    program of improvements to said system;



                                                        - 26 -

4) Carrying out social and physical surveys, the formulation of investment proposals, implementation and
     management, independent monitoring and evaluation in respect of the slum sanitation schemes; and
5) Carrying out feasibility studies for the second stage sewage treatment and disposal facilities in the service
     areas of Malad, Versova, Bhandup, Ghatkopar, Bandra, Worli and completing detailed engineering designs
     for sewage treatment and disposal facilities in said service areas.

Revised Components:

At the mid-term, the project was restructured to include the following:

1) The rehabilitation of the existing Ghatkopar tunnel was replaced by the construction of a higher-level tunnel
     because a new and higher-level tunnel proved to be less costly than the contemplated rehabilitation of the
     existing Ghatkopar tunnel
2) A training component was added after the Mid-Term Review
3) The rehabilitation of a tunnel was added to collect sewage and transport it to the Bandra pumping station.
4) Study of O&M of water supply system of Mumbai.
5) The work of segregation of sewage from storm water drains was also included to enhance environmental
     benefits.

4.       ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES:

4.1      Strengthen the Corporation's capacity in all aspects of provision and management of sewerage
         services.

This objective has been substantially achieved.

(a)      Service coverage:
i)   The work of laying new sewer lines at various places by Micro-tunneling method has brought more area under
     sewerage network. Sewer lines at various locations, totalling to about 4.9 km., were laid using micro
     tunneling. The work consisted of laying long-standing missing links, laying sewer lines of larger sizes i.e.
     augmentation and also extension of sewer network, bringing hitherto un-sewered population under sewerage
     service umbrella. The work has benefited about 1.8 million population on nearly 2000 Ha. area.
ii) Laying of new sewer lines of about 9.1 km. (by trenching method) has enhanced the area under sewerage
     network, resulting in increase in the sewerage connections.
iii) The High Level Tunnel at Ghatkopar has been commissioned in May 2003. This has improved the collection
     and conveyance of sewage in Zone VII i.e. Ghatkopar Zone.
iv) 100% of formal dwellers have the sanitation facility out of which 80% is covered under sewerage , whereas
     65% slum dwellers have the sanitation facilities out of which 1.4% is covered under the sewerage

b)       Operation and Maintenance (O.&M.) improvement :

i)   Study to up-grade Sewerage Operation and Maintenance Services was carried out under the Project. Based on
     the Reports submitted, areas requiring improvements were identified.
ii) The Sewer-cleaning equipment procured under the project has enabled the department to carry out systematic
     cleaning of sewer lines. The machines have proved to be efficient in removing chronic & difficult chokes as
     well as useful in attending to intricate problems in sewer lines. This has improved maintenance capacity of the
     sewerage services.
iii) The safety equipments procured under MSDP are being used and has raised the morale of the field staff and
     has increased safety awareness.
iv) The management of Sewerage Treatment Facilities has become more effective because of sophisticated and
     user-friendly laboratory equipments procured under the Project.
v) The modification in grit chamber and providing air diffusers has given encouraging results for effective
     control over grit removal to cope up with Pollution Control Norms.
vi) The Customer Facilitation Centers (CFCs) have been set up in some of the wards.
vii) There is reduction in the no. of sewer related complaints.




                                                         - 27 -

c)       Sewage treatment capacity: The sewage treatment capacity, which was 1155 MLD before M.S.D.P., has
     enhanced to 2530 MLD as on 31.12.2003.

     Treatment                      Capacity      Treatment                       Remarks
     Facility                       (MLD)         Process
     BEFORE MSDP
     Colaba                         125           Preliminary treatment &
                                                  1.2 km. long marine outfall
    Love Grove, Worli               760           Preliminary treatment &         Outfall under MSDP
                                                  3.7 km. long marine outfall
    Versova                         90            3 stage aerated lagoons
    Malad                           180           Preliminary treatment
    Subtotal                          1155
     AFTER MSDP
     Bhandup                        280           Single stage aerated lagoons    Aerated     Lagoons    under
                                                                                  MSDP
    Ghatkopar                       300           Single stage aerated lagoons    Aerated Lagoons and High
                                                                                  level tunnel under MSDP
    Bandra                          795           Preliminary treatment &        Bandra     IPS,   repairs and
                                                  3.7 km. long marine outfall    rehabilitation of EPS,WWTF
                                                                                 & Force-main, rehabilitation
                                                                                 of Bandra     Collector Tunnel
                                                                                 system    and    Outfall under
                                                                                 MSDP
    Subtotal                        1375
     TOTAL                           2530

d)       Disposal in environmentally acceptable manner :

Considering the present water supply, 2600 MLD sewage is generated. Out of this, at present, 1500 MLD sewage
is collected and disposed off in environmentally acceptable manner against 790 MLD disposed off without
treatment prior to M.S.D.P.

By implementation of the plan prepared after Stage-II Studies, it is expected to collect 90% sewage (at present 60%
sewage is collected) and dispose it off in an environmentally acceptable manner, to meet the improved standards
likely to be prescribed by Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) / Central Permission Control Board
(CPCB). The priority works, including expansion of Slum Sanitation Programme (SSP) have been identified,
under Stage-II plan.

e)       Improved infrastructure:
i)   Structural stability of 5 pumping stations has been improved.
ii) Condition assessment of sewers for 150 km. length of sewer out of 1400 km. was carried out. The lines
     identified as Category '5' i.e. collapsed sections have been rehabilitated under this project.
iii) The work of Repairs and Reconstruction of Manholes has resulted in the improvement in structural conditions
     and operational conditions.
iv) The work of Replacement of Manhole Frames & Covers has achieved the advancement towards
     standardization of MH frame & cover and has improved operational conditions.
v) The work of Providing Vent Shafts & Improvement in Drop Connections has improved ventilation in the
     system and avoided scouring of manhole base.
vi) Rehabilitation of sewers by different trench-less methods i.e. 3.8 km. by pipe bursting/ pipe jacking method
     and 17 km. by lining method has improved structural condition and operational condition.
vii) Replacement of sewer lines of about 1.5 km. (by open-cut method) has improved sewage conveyance.




                                                          - 28 -

f)       Maps :

Topographical Survey and improvement in sewage conveyance system was carried out under MSDP.

MCBM has established a Sewerage Utility Management Center (SUMC) to maintain and update the digitized maps
of sewerage system. This has resulted in achieving sophistication in data management, improved planning capacity
and increased awareness among the staff.

g)       Training :
i)  A training center has been established at Love Grove Pumping Station, Worli and sewerage department staff is
    being trained there for enhancement of technical knowledge and various skills. The courses are held on
    various subjects such as Maintenance, Management, Health, Safety and Public relations etc. So far about 36
    courses were organised, reaching about 4000 sewerage staff. Due to the training, the staff has understood their
    respective roles and responsibilities better.
ii) While carrying out the work of laying sewers by micro-tunneling, through close interaction with the
    Consultants, Contractors, Operators, Manufacturers and Technology providers, the MCBM staff has developed
    the confidence for supervising such works without any external assistance, thus resulting in skill development
    & capacity building.

h)       Preparation of future plans:

The study for identifying sewerage works for Stage II of MSDP has been completed under this Project and Final
report, including futuristic plan for enhancing the infrastructure and considering the population growth from 2002
to 2025, was received by MCBM in August, 2002. By implementation of the plan, it is expected to collect 90%
sewage (against 60% at present) and dispose it off in an environmentally acceptable manner, to meet the improved
standards likely to be prescribed by MPCB / CPCB. The priority works, including expansion of SSP have been
identified.

4.2 Sustain the financial viability of provision of water supply and sewerage services in the jurisdiction of
    the Corporation.

Water Supply and Sewage Disposal Department of MCBM revised water and sewerage tariffs and also tariff
structure from time to time and it met with the stiff investment finance covenant without fail. Billing and collection
efficiency has significantly improved because of the proactive measures taken and its financial performance
improved over the years.

This objective has been achieved as detailed below:

i)       MCBM maintains a specific cash account to cover the planned annual cost of asset replacement and
rehabilitation costs after meeting 35% of the capital expenditure required under the agreement.
ii)      Revision of Water and Sewerage tariffs: MCBM had revised water and sewerage tariffs, effective from
01/02/2001. The main aspect of the tariff rise is introduction of 60% Sewerage Charges in respect of water
connections granted in slum areas (Stand-post water connections). Further, minimum charges against bill and
scheduled charges are revised. The penal clause has been introduced to improve the collection. Water tariffs have
been further revised with effect from 01/08/2002. The revenue collection for both water and sewerage has increased
during financial year 2002-03. Also, the ratio Total Collection / Total Billing has markedly improved.
iii)     Computerized decentralized water and sewerage billing system in the wards : MCBM has introduced new
Decentralized Aqua Billing System at Ward level to improve the collection efficiency and to enhance recovery of
annual revenue. The system started functioning in April 2001 in all wards and in April, 2002 in K/East ward. The
Water Charges Bills are now generated at ward level monthly and staggered thrice in a month on prescribed dates
of 5th, 15th and 25th day of every month. Since the preparation of bills takes place within 8 to 10 days of meter
reading, the demand is progressive for each month. To discourage delay in payment of water bills, an additional
charge of 2% per month or part thereof is introduced, which automatically gets added in the next bill. This system
enables Assistant Engineers in the wards to generate list of Top 100 defaulters, so as to take prompt disconnection
action. The introduction of Computerized Billing System has helped in production of bills in time, their issuance



                                                        - 29 -

through post, collection of revenue and providing the accurate account to the connection holders.
iv)      Efforts are also being made to reduce operating cost. Study of operation and maintenance of water supply
system of Mumbai, is in progress, with the objective of optimizing the operating costs. Draft Final Report has been
received on December 31, 2003. The report is under scrutiny.
v)       Recovery including Past and Previous years, for both water and sewerage, continues to be improved
during financial year 2002-03.

4.3    Improve the health and environmental conditions in the jurisdiction of Corporation, including the
      slums.

All measures to improve the health and environmental conditions that have been provided in the project have been
completed and the objective has been substantially achieved.

The quality of near shore water has improved significantly from aesthetic point of view since commissioning of the
marine outfalls and the lagoons.      Nevertheless, from an assessment of the impact of the various measures
implemented, MCBM initiated a program to intercept the sewage flowing into coastal water through the storm
water drains to enhance the environmental conditions near shore. MCBM will continue to study the quality of
marine water near shore and 3 to 5 km from shore and take measures as required to enhance the health and
environmental conditions.

 Details are given below:

  i)   Marine outfall at Worli has been commissioned and is working satisfactorily. About 500 MLD sewage is
       being disposed through the said outfall. National Environmental Engineering and Research Institute
       (NEERI) carried out studies known as Mumbai Costal Water Quality Modeling Studies. Evaluation of
       environmental impact (post-commissioning) of the Worli outfall was completed by NEERI and Final Report
       was received in November-2001. The near-shore water has improved from aesthetic point of view. The
       water quality at 1 km. line from shore shows some improvement. However, there is no improvement
       near-shore and at 3 km. & 5 km. from the shore. This is due to non-point discharges from storm water
       drains (SWDs). Hence, the works for segregation of sewage from SWDs have been taken up.
  ii) Marine outfall at Bandra has been commissioned in May 2003. The post-commissioning study will be taken
       up to assess the environmental benefits. The preliminary inspection has shown aesthetic improvement at
       Mahim Creek and the local fishermen have reported increase in the fish yield.
  iii) Aerated Lagoons at Bhandup have been commissioned in June 2002 and those at Ghatkopar in May 2003.
       Due to this, the discharge water quality standards prescribed by the MPCB have been achieved. This has
       helped reduce the pollution of Thane Creek.
  iv) Sewage collection was improved and 20 sq. km. area (with about 1.8 million inhabitants) has been brought
       under sewerage coverage.
  v) Sewage treatment and disposal capacity was improved from 1155 MLD to 2530 MLD.
  vi) The SSP is being implemented as the demand-based project with participation of local residents.

       The sanitation surveys of slums in all the wards carried out under MSDP have quantified the required no. of
       community toilets. As on 31.12.2003, 193 toilet blocks have been completed and handed over to Community
       Based Organisations (CBOs). No. of beneficiaries has substantially increased to 1,97,000.

       The SSP carried out under MSDP has brought about improvement in the cleanliness in the slum pockets,
       particularly around the toilets, elimination of open defecation, reduction in waiting time to use the toilet,
       protection of self esteem and better social relationships.

       Government of Maharashtra (GoM) announced policy reform for converging all programs in Mumbai to
       adopt demand-led participatory approach where the community takes over the responsibility for operation
       and maintenance of the sanitation schemes, for achieving longer-term health and environmental benefits in
       the slums. About five million slum-dwellers will have improved access to toilet facilities and will help in
       improving the health and environmental conditions in the slums they reside and in the neighboring areas
       which are also impacted by the degraded conditions. Water Supply & Sanitation Department of GoM has
       issued Government Resolution (GR) in March 2002, for adhering to the SSP policy followed in this Project,



                                                         - 30 -

       for the construction of community toilet blocks.

  vii) The construction works under MSDP were carried out with Environment Impact Mitigation and Monitoring
       Action Plan (EIMMP), based on the conditions laid down in the environmental clearance issued by Ministry
       of Environment & Forests (MOEF), Government of India (GoI). The activities were plantation of
       mangroves, appointment of Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) and monitoring of air and noise at
       construction sites.
  viii)The replantation of mangrove in 40 ha. area in the East Coast also helped protection of ecology.
  ix) NEERI completed Thane Creek water quality study and modeling for its assimilative capacity. The finding
       of the study was discussed in the workshop in Jan.2002, attended by stakeholders Thane Municipal
       Corporation (TMC), MPCB, New Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) and Thane-Belapur Industries
       Association (TBIA). NEERI submitted the modified report considering the quantity and quality of flow for
       the years 2001, 2015 and 2025. The findings of both, Mumbai Costal Water Quality Modeling Studies and
       Thane Creek Water Quality Study have been used by Stage II Consultants in preparing the Master Plan.
  x) A Sewage Quality Monitoring Laboratory is set up at Dadar Pumping Station. The laboratory conducts
       various physical and chemical tests to assess the quality of sewage and also quality of effluent discharged
       into water body after the treatment. The effluent quality is compared with the norms set by MPCB.

5.     BANK'S PERFORMANCE:

       Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.

The Bank closely supervised the project by deputing Supervision Missions, once in every six months. This helped
in completing the Project smoothly. Visits by Bank officials from various disciplines, as part of supervision
missions, were beneficial in sorting out major issues such as method of Rehabilitation of Bandra Collector tunnel,
construction of High level tunnel at Ghatkopar, environmental issues, contractual issues and issues regarding
implementation of SSP. Wide experience of experts has helped improve the quality of works and the MCBM staff
got first-hand training under their guidance. Many a times Missions conveyed concurrence on several issues in the
field, which saved a lot of time. Bank team for supervision was by and large continued and this was extremely
helpful in continuing development dialogue. Further, the availability of the team in Delhi also helped MCBM to
reach out them for any consultation that was needed for implementation of such a large and complex project.
MCBM rates the Bank's supervision performance highly satisfactory.

Technical guidance received from the Bank not only helped MCBM to implement the project well and deploy the
most cost effective technology, but also in saving costs in (a) Ghatkopar tunnel, (b) micro-tunneling works, (c)
Mechanical and electrical works for Bandra pumping station, (d) sewer rehabilitation, (e) floating aerators for
lagoons. Bank guidance on introduction of the decentralized and computerized Water Supply and Sewerage
(WSS) billing system and computerized accounting system is also highly appreciated.

Project cost estimate did not take account of costs associated with the project implementation like, water &
sewerage charges, overheads, taxes and duties for equipments and consultancies, as a result MCBM had to finance
Rs. 3440.202 million, for which no disbursement was claimed.

6.     BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE:

          MCBM's performance was satisfactory:

  i)   As on 31/12/2003, the Expenditure of Rs.10028.682 millions has been incurred and an amount of
       Rs.6571.005 millions. (US $ 151.537 millions) have been claimed. Bank has disbursed Rs. 6445.948
       millions (US$ 148.802 millions) and including Special Account, it works out to US$158.62 millions). GoM
       has released Rs.4135.3 millions. Due from GoM is Rs.2310.624 millions.
  ii) MCBM's positive outlook and commitment to the Project helped in smooth completion of the Project. All
       the physical works and studies have been completed before the extended Loan Closing Date, except that the
       implementation of the SSP is in progress and draft Final Report of Study of O&M of water supply system
       has been received on 31.12.2003. The project has been completed with the cost saving.
  iii) The major and complex works viz. Worli and Bandra Marine Outfalls, Civil, Mech. & Elect. Works at
       Bandra IPS, rehabilitation of Bandra Collector Tunnel System, High Level Tunnel at Ghatkopar, Aerated
       Lagoons at Bhandup & Ghatkopar, Sewer laying by micro-tunneling and rehabilitation of sewers by Lining


                                                       - 31 -

       were closely monitored and successfully completed & commissioned by MCBM.
  iv) The Contracts were administered efficiently by MCBM with the help of in-house expertise and skills,
       including timely payments to the Contractors ensuring smooth cash flow to the contractors.           MCBM
       resolved the contractual disputes speedily, with the help of Dispute Review Boards (DRBs).
  v) The demand-led Slum Sanitation Programme is being successfully implemented by MCBM, with
       participation of slum-dwellers.
  vi) The tariff adequacy in the context of forecast of W.S.S.D. was reviewed every year and the tariffs were
       periodically revised to meet the investment requirements.
  vii) Asset replacement fund was created as annual contribution in W.S.S.D. budget.
  viii)Funds earmarked for Training remained un-utilised for want of clearance from Government of India (GoI)
       for overseas training.

7.        LESSONS LEARNT:

  i)   Rehabilitation of sewer lines should be planned considering the condition of up-stream and down-stream
       portions.
  ii) GIS maps of all the underground utilities should be available for proper planning of the works and for
       avoiding missing links and un-attended stretches.
  iii) Difficult works can be completed by benchmarking of technology options as MCBM has done for outfall by
       tunnel boring, sewer laying by micro tunneling, sewer rehabilitation by lining and pipe bursting .
  iv) Geo-technical aspects should be thoroughly assessed and interpreted before taking up the works.
  v) While inviting International Competitive Bidding (ICB) tenders, joint ventures with Indian Contractors are
       advisable for ensuring Technology Transfer.
  vi) Award of contracts within the original bid validity period is essential for timely implementation of the
       project.
  vii) The scope of work for Consultancies for studies needs to be more elaborately specified. e.g. The contract
       document of Consultancy work for study of O.&M. of water supply, prepared as per the Bank guidelines,
       included only the Request For Proposal (RFP) document. It is now felt that the technical proposal submitted
       by the Consultants should have been part of the Contract document. The objectives in the RFP, within which
       key parameters were specified, were needed to be elaborated in detail, so as to pinpoint the work to be done
       by the Consultants.
  viii)The participation of community at planning and design stage and thereafter in operation and maintenance of
       local sanitation facilities is essential for sustainable improvement of health and environmental conditions in
       slums.
  ix) MCBM has spent about 10% and 5% of the Contract Cost for major works and minor works respectively
       towards consultancy services for design, bid preparation, bid evaluation and supervision over the contract.
       By now, MCBM has acquired substantial know-how to carry out small & mid-size works. The help of
       Consultants should be insisted only for major and complex nature works.
  x) MCBM being the implementing agency, 30% loan component (grant) shall be passed on to MCBM, which
       will reduce overall interest from 13% to competitive rate.
  xi) MCBM shall be allowed to make early re-payment without any penalty so as to reduce burden of interest.
  xii) Disbursement received from the World Bank/ Government of India shall be passed on to MCBM by
       Government of Maharashtra within 15 days so as to maintain the cash flow and the same shall not be
       adjusted against any dues.

8.        FUTURE OPERATION:

All the sewerage works completed under the Project have been integrated in the existing sewerage system of
Brihan Mumbai. Sustainability is certain. MCBM has the capacity to operate and maintain the sewerage plants and
networks completed under MSDP. MCBM would redeploy the personnel such that the new facilities are operated
and maintained along-with the existing facilities.

The Financial performance has been good in the past and will continue to be good, so finance for O&M is not
likely to present problems.



                                                           - 32 -

The operational indicators for WSSD as a whole, including physical, financial, environmental and institutional,
have been agreed with the Bank.

There is reduction by 4.7% in the complaint received and 3% reduction in the staff, in the year 2003 with respect
to 2002 and staff for 1000 sewer connections is observed to be 54.75

The SSP implementation started under M.S.D.P. is being further continued through MCBM's funds which will
provide additional facility to about 1,63,000 slum dwellers.

Under stage II priority works, it is proposed to construct 35,000 community toilet blocks and individual toilets for 6
lakhs slum dwellers till 2010. The estimated cost including design, project management and contingencies, over
the period from 2004 to 2010 is Rs.4,800/- millions.


9.       CONCLUSION:

To maintain the momentum gained from M.S.D.P., MCBM has proposed to carry out the Stage-II priority works
identified by the stage-II feasibility studies and SSP.

MCBM thanks the World Bank for its financial assistance, the constant encouragement, technical advice and
support given during the implementation of M.S.D.P.




                                                        - 33 -

- 34 -

