Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2763 IN
                 Development Credit Agreement
               (Bombay Sewage Disposal Project)
                            between
                             INDIA
                              and
             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    Dated December 28, 1995
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2763 IN
                 DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1995, between INDIA, acting
by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has also requested the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to one hundred sixty-seven million dollars
($167,000,000) (the Loan);
     (C)  the Borrower and the Association intend, to the
extent practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided
for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures
in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds
of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
     (D)  the Project will be carried out by the Municipal
Corporation of Greater Bombay (the Corporation) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the State of Maharashtra the
proceeds of the Credit as provided for in this Agreement and
the proceeds of the Loan as provided for in the Loan Agreement;
Page  2
and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement, in the Maharashtra Agreement of even date herewith
among the Association, the Bank and the State of Maharashtra,
and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, the Bank and the Corporation;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                           ARTICLE I
                General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
          otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
          on account of expenditures in the territories of any
          country which is not a member of the Bank or for
          goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
          territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
          to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
          if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
          the Charter of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Maharashtra" means the State of Maharashtra, a
State of India, acting by its Governor;
     (b)  "Maharashtra Agreement" means the agreement
among the Association, the Bank and Maharashtra of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Maharashtra Agreement;
     (c)  "Corporation" means the Municipal Corporation of
Greater Bombay established under the Bombay Municipal
Corporation Act of 1888;
     (d)  "Project Agreement" means the Agreement
among the Association, the Bank and the Corporation of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (e)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1,
1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
     (f)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
Page  3
agreement to be entered into between Maharashtra and the
Corporation pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Maharashtra
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (g)  "WSSD" means the Water Supply and Sewerage Department
of the Corporation; and
     (h)  "Special Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                          ARTICLE II
                          The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
     (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
2002, or such later date as the Association shall establish.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a
date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual
date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled;
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
     (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in
each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15
and August 15 commencing August 15, 2005, and ending February
15, 2030.  Each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 15, 2015, shall be one and one-fourth
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
     (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association, shall
have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the
terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
     (c)  if, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions.
                          ARTICLE III
                   Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause Maharashtra
and the Corporation to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Maharashtra Agreement and the Project
Agreement all the respective obligations of Maharashtra and the
Corporation therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable Maharashtra and the Corporation to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Maharashtra in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the
States of India.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
Page  5
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out by
the Corporation pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1997, or
such other date as the Borrower and the Association may
otherwise agree, appropriately revise and establish quality
standards applicable to the discharge of wastewater to marine
coastal waters.
                          ARTICLE IV
                     Particular Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)       maintain or cause to be maintained in
                    accordance with sound accounting practices,
                    records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)      ensure that all records (contracts,
                    orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                    documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained
                    until at least one year after the Association has
                    received the audit report for the financial year in
                    which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
                    was made; and
          (iii)     enable the Association's representatives to
                    examine such records.
     (b)     The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
          paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
          Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
          accordance with appropriate auditing principles
          consistently applied, by independent auditors
          acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)      furnish to the Association as soon as
          available, but in any case not later than six months
          after the end of each such year, the report of such
          audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
          detail as the Association shall have reasonably
          requested, including a separate opinion by said
          auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
          submitted during such financial year, together with
          the procedures and internal controls involved in
          their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
          related withdrawals; and
          (iii)     furnish to the Association such other
          information concerning said records and accounts and
          the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
          to time reasonably request.
                           ARTICLE V
                  Remedies of the Association
Page  6
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)   Maharashtra or the Corporation shall have failed
to perform any of its respective obligations under the
Maharashtra Agreement or the Project Agreement.
     (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Maharashtra or the Corporation will be able to perform its
respective obligations under the Maharashtra Agreement or the
Project Agreement.
     (c)   The Bombay Municipal Corporation Act of
1888 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Corporation to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
     (d)   Maharashtra or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Corporation or for the suspension of
its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
     (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and Maharashtra or the
Corporation, as the case may be; and
     (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and
(d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                          ARTICLE VI
                  Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of Maharashtra and the Corporation;
      (b) all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled,
other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
     (c)  the Corporation has issued a Letter of
Acceptance to the successful bidder in respect of  the contract
for the construction of the Worli and Bandra outfalls under
Part A (i) of the Project;
     (d)  the Corporation has issued Tenders for the works
to be carried out under Part A (vii) of the Project;
     (e)  consultants' contracts for the carrying out of Parts
B (ii) and (iii) of the Project have been awarded; and
     (f)  the Association has received consultant recruitment
documentation and program, satisfactory to the Association, for
the recruitment of consultants for the supervision of
construction of works to be carried out under Parts A (i)
through (v) and (vii) of the Project.
Page  7
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of
the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Association:
     (a)   that the Maharashtra Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by Maharashtra, and is legally
binding upon Maharashtra in accordance with its terms;
     (b)   that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Corporation, and is legally
binding upon the Corporation in accordance with its terms; and
     (c)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by Maharashtra and the Corporation
and is legally binding upon Maharashtra and the Corporation in
accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The provisions of paragraph (b) of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
                          ARTICLE VII
          Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary
in the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
          For the Borrower:
               The Secretary to the Government
                  of India
               Ministry of Finance
               Department of Economic Affairs
               New Delhi, India
            Cable address:                            Telex:
                 ECOFAIRS                             53-3166175
                 New Delhi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
            Cable address:                            Telex:
                 INDEVAS                              197688 (TRT),
                 Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA),
                                                       64145 (WUI) or
                                                       82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
Page  8
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        INDIA
                         By  /s/  N. Valluri
                                     Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By  /s/  Heinz Vergin
                                Acting Regional Vice President
                                                    South Asia
                          SCHEDULE I
   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                  Amount of    Amount of
                  the Credit   the Loan
                  Allocated   Allocated        % of
                  (Expressed  (Expressed   Expenditures
                    in SDR     in Dollar       to be
     Category     Equivalent)  Equivalent)   Financed
(1)  Civil works  13,900,000   105,800,000   59%
(2)  Equipment     1,000,000    11,900,000   100% of foreign
     and materials                           expenditures,
                                             100% of local
                                             expenditures
                                             (ex-factory
                                             cost) and
                                             80% of local
                                             expenditures for
                                             other items
                                             procured locally
(3)  Consultants'   1,000,000    32,600,000  100%
     services
(4)  Unallocated       -         16,700,000
     TOTAL         15,900,000   167,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of
the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)   the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
Page  9
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 7,600,000 may be made in respect of Category
(1) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after June 15, 1995.
4.   The Association and the Bank may require withdrawals from
the Credit Account and from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000 for goods
and works, $100,000 for employment of consulting firms and
$50,000 for employment of individual consultants, all under
such terms and conditions as the Association and the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                          SCHEDULE 2
                  Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to (i) strengthen the
Corporation's capacity in all aspects of the management of the
provision of sewerage services; (ii) sustain the financial
viability of the provision of water supply and sewerage
services in the jurisdiction of the Corporation, and (iii)
improve the health and environmental conditions in the
jurisdiction of the Corporation, including the slum dwellers.
     The Project consists of the following Parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:        Physical Components
     (i)  The construction of about 3 km long and about 3.5
meter in diameter marine outfall in submarine
tunnel at Worli and a similar outfall at Bandra.
    (ii)  The construction of a pumping station at Bandra.
   (iii)  The construction of aerated lagoons at Ghatkopar and Bhandup.
    (iv)  The construction of facilities to prevent siltation of the
influent tunnel at Ghatkopar.
     (v)  The rehabilitation of the existing Ghatkopar tunnel.
    (vi)  The implementation of slum sanitation schemes.
   (vii)  The construction of additional structural features to improve
the stability of five existing sewage pumping stations.
  (viii)  The implementation of a program of improvements to the existing
conveyance system.
Part B:    Technical Assistance and Training
      Provision of technical assistance and training for:
     (i)  supervision of construction of the works to be carried out
under Parts A (i) through (v) and (vii);
    (ii)  upgrading the operation and maintenance practices and
facilities for the Corporation's sewerage system to acceptable levels;
   (iii)  implementing topographic and condition surveys of the
Corporation's conveyance system and formulating a program of improvements
to said system;
    (iv)  carrying out of social and physical surveys, the formulation of
Page  10
investment proposals, implementation and management, and for independent
monitoring and evaluation in respect of the slum sanitation schemes; and
     (v)  carrying out of feasibility studies for the second stage sewage
treatment and disposal facilities in the service areas of Malad, Versova,
Bhandup,  Ghatkopar, Bandra, Worli and Colaba and completing detailed
engineering designs for sewage treatment and disposal facilities in said
service areas.
                             *      *     *      *
     The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
                          SCHEDULE 3
                        Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), and (3), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 15,900,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association
               requests for deposits into the Special Account
               at such intervals as the Association shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
               Association the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
Page  11
               of which replenishment is requested.  On the
               basis of each such request, the Association
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
               the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
               Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by said
               documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures.  All such deposits shall be
               withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
               Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent
               amounts, as shall have been justified by said
               documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
respective General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02
of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the respective General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total withdrawn amount of the Credit or the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association:  (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
Page  12
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case
may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
