Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2763 IN
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3923 IN
                            Maharashtra Agreement
                      (Bombay Sewage Disposal Project)
                                    among
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                                     and
                            STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                           Dated December 28, 1995
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2763 IN
                                                       LOAN NUMBER  3923 IN
      MAHARASHTRA AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1995, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank), and STATE OF MAHARASHTRA, acting by its Governor
(Maharashtra).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of
even date herewith between India, acting by its President (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that Maharashtra agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)    by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred sixty-seven million dollars
($167,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Maharashtra agree to
Page  2
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
      (C)    the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement and of the Loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be made available by the Borrower
to Maharashtra in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of
India; and
      WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower and the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                                 Definitions
      Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement,
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the
General Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit
Agreement and in the Loan Agreement, respectively) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                                 ARTICLE II
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01.  Maharashtra declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, without any
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under this Agreement shall cause the Corporation to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of the Corporation therein set forth, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Corporation to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      Section 2.02.  Maharashtra shall make available to
the Corporation the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan made
available by the Borrower to Maharashtra, under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between Maharashtra and the
Corporation, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association and the Bank, which shall, except
as the Association and the Bank may otherwise agree, include
interest rate of 13% per annum on the principal amount so
relent and withdrawn by the Corporation and outstanding from
time to time, and repayment over a period of twenty-five years,
including therein a period of grace of five years.
      Section 2.03.  Except as the Association and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to Project
Agreement.
      Section 2.04.  Maharashtra shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the
Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, Maharashtra
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  3
      Section 2.05.  (a) Maharashtra shall, at the request
of the Association or the Bank, exchange views with the
Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
      (b)    Maharashtra shall promptly inform the
Association and the Bank of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or
the performance by Maharashtra of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                         Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 3.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement become effective.
      Section 3.02.  (a) This Agreement and all obligations
of the Association and the Bank and of Maharashtra thereunder
shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
             (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                   Agreement and the Loan Agreement shall have
                   terminated in accordance with their terms; or
            (ii)   the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement or both of said Agreements terminate in accordance
with their respective terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association and the
Bank shall promptly notify Maharashtra of this event.
      Section 3.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                          Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 4.01.  Any notice or request required or
permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement
shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to
have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand
or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party
giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                              197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA),
Page  4
                                                     64145 (WUI) or
                                                     82987 (FTCC)
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for Reconstruction
                 and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                       Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                            197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA),
                                                     64145 (WUI) or
                                                     82987 (FTCC)
      For Maharashtra:
            Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra
            Urban Development Department
            Mantralaya, Bombay 400032, India
            Cable address:
               SACHIVALYA
               Bombay, India
      Section 4.02.  Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra may be taken or
executed by a Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra or
such other person or persons as Maharashtra shall designate in
writing, and Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association and
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 4.03.  As long as the Bank has not given
notice to the contrary to Maharashtra and so long as the
Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to
the termination of the Loan Agreement:
      (a)    the obligations of Maharashtra to consult with,
and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records
and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent
performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the
Association;
      (b)    the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and
to furnish information to, Maharashtra shall be satisfied to
the extent such obligations are fulfilled by
the Association; and
      (c)    all actions taken (including the giving of
approvals or granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant
to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken
pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the
Association and the Bank.
      Section 4.04.  This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and
all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By  /s/  Heinz Vergin
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                 South Asia
                   STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                   By  /s/  N. Valluri
                                                  Authorized Representative
