Page  1
September 1, 2000
The Municipal Commissioner
Municipal Corporation of Brihan Mumbai
Mahapalika Marg
Bombay 400001, India
Dear Sir:
Re: Bombay Sewage Disposal Project (Cr. 2763/Ln. 3923)
Amendment to the Project Agreement
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) between India (the 
Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association), the 
Loan Agreement between the  Borrower and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), the Maharashtra Agreement between the 
Association, the Bank and the State of Maharashtra, and the Project Agreement 
between the Association and the Bank and the Municipal Corporation of Greater 
Bombay (the Corporation), all dated December 28, 1995, as amended on January 18, 
1999.  We also refer to the request made through a letter dated May 25, 2000 
from Mr. Abhas K. Jha, Deputy Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, 
Ministry of Finance, requesting the Association to utilize 
[--------------------] of the Project savings to finance some additional 
activities, making it necessary to amend Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement on 
Procurement and Consultant Services.
The Association and the Bank are pleased to inform you that, after due 
consideration, the Project Agreement is amended to read as follows:
1.
All references to the words ‘Bombay’, ‘Municipal Corporation of Greater 
Bombay’ and 
‘MCGB’ in the Project Agreement are hereby deleted and replaced with the 
following:
(i)
‘Bombay’ is replaced with ‘Mumbai’.
(ii)
Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay’ is replaced with 
‘Municipal 
Corporation of Brihan Mumbai’
(iii)
'MCGB’ and replaced with ‘MCBM’.
2.
Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement is amended as follows:
(i)
Part B.2(a) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement is 
amended to read:
“(a) Prequalification
Bidders for the works included in Part A (i) through (iii), (v) and 
(ix) of 
Project shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs
2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.”
(ii)
Part C of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement is deleted and 
replaced with the 
following:
“National Competitive Bidding
Contracts for works listed in part A (iv) and (vi) through (viii) of 
the Project may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.”
(iii)
A new Part D is added and reads as follows: 
Page  2
“Part D:
Private Sector Water Supply Operations Procurement
A pilot scheme for rehabilitation/improvement of the water 
distribution network shall be constructed, operated, maintained and 
subsequently transferred under a contract awarded to an entrepreneur 
on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, and 
subject to the provisions of paragraph 3.13(a) thereof.  The 
goods/works/services required for the rehabilitation/improvement, 
operation and maintenance shall be procured in accordance with the 
applicable procedures of the said entrepreneur.”
(iv)
The existing Part D of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement 
now becomes Part E.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Project 
Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt of the original copy of 
this amendment letter duly countersigned by the representative of the 
Corporation, the above amendments shall become effective as of the date of 
countersignature of this amendment letter.
Please confirm the agreement of the Corporation to the amendments set out 
above by countersigning the form of confirmation set forth below and returning 
to the Association one fully signed original of the amendment letter, and 
retaining one original for your records.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ed Lim
Country Director, India
South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF BRIHAN MUMBAI
By /s/ 
Title 
Date:
c.c
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 11001
