Page  1
January 13, 1999
Municipal Commissioner 
Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai  
Mahapalika Marg 
Bombay 400 001, India
Re:
Credit No. 2763-IN; Loan 3923-IN Bombay Sewage Disposal Project 
Amendment to 
the Project Agreement
Dear Sir:
We refer to the Project Agreement (Bombay Sewage Disposal Project) among the 
International Development Association (the Association) and International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), and Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai 
(the Corporation) dated December 28, 1995.
We also refer to your letter dated January 13, 1999, and the letter from the 
Department of Economic Affairs dated January 7, 1999, both requesting the Association 
and the Bank to amend the procurement arrangements under Schedule 1 of the Project 
Agreement to introduce  national shopping procedures, direct contracting and force 
account.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association and the Bank, after due 
consideration, have agreed to your request. Accordingly, Part C of Section 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement is amended as follows:
1.
Paragraph 1 is deleted and replaced with the following:
“National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided under Paragraph 2 below, contracts for works under Part A 
(v), (vi), (vii) and (viii) of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.”
2.
A new paragraph 2 is added and reads as follows:
“Procurement of Small Works
Works under Part A (vi) of the Project, estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, and not more than $10,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate, 
may be procured either (i) under lump-sum, admeasurement contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association and the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully, or (ii) with prior approval of the Association and the 
Bank, through direct contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines, or force account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of 
the Guidelines, both in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association and 
the Bank.”
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing and dating the confirmation 
form on the enclosed copy of this letter and return it to us for our files. This 
amendment shall become effective on the date of confirmation by both parties. A copy 
of this letter is enclosed for your files, and one copy is being sent to the 
Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance, and another copy to the 
Chief Secretary, Government of Maharashtra, for information.
Sincerely,
Page  2
/s/ Edwin R. Lim 
    Country Director India
CONFIRMED
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER MUMBAI
/s/ 
    Municipal Commissioner for Greater Mumbai
Date: January 28, 1999
