CREDIT NUMBER 2763 IN
LOAN NUMBER 3923 IN
Project Agreement
(Bombay Sewage Disposal Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY
Dated )~~ ~/-~- 2 ',1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2763 IN
LOAN NUMBER 3923 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                          1995, among INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), and MUNICIPAL
CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY (the Corporation).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to fifteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that the Corporation agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred sixty-seven million dollars ($167,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Corporation agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
(C) the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement and of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
by the Borrower to the State of Maharashtra (Maharashtra) in accordance with the
Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India;
(D) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between Maharashtra and
the Corporation, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to the Corporation on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Corporation, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
Loan Agreement, respectively) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Corporation declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end,
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and water supply and sewerage public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and
except as the Association, the Bank, Maharashtra and the Corporation shall otherwise
agree, the Corporation shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Corporation shall carry out or cause to be carried out the
obligations 3et forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Corporation shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Corporation shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect


﻿-3-
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) The Corporation shall, at the request of the Association or the
Bank, exchange views with the Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b) The Corporation shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by the
Corporation of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Corporation
Section 3.01. The Corporation shall cause WSSD to carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and water supply and
sewerage public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Corporation shall cause WSSD at all times to operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. The Corporation shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association and the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.. (a) The Corporation shall cause WSSD to maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.


﻿-4-
(b)    The Corporation shall cause WSSD to:
(i)    have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each financial year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association and the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof, as the Association and the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)    The Corporation shall, from time to time take, or cause to be taken, all
such measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
water supply and sewerage tariffs or other charges) as shall be required to produce, for
each of its financial years, on funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 35%
of the annual average of the Corporation's capital expenditures relating to WSSD incurred,
or expected to be incurred, during that year and the next following financial year.
(b)    Before December 31 in each of its financial years, the Corporation shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Corporation and satisfactory to the Association
and the Bank, review the adequacy of its water supply and sewerage tariffs to meet the
requirement set forth in the preceding paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following financial year and shall furnish to the Association and the Bank a copy of such
review upon its completion.
(c)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference
between:


﻿-5-
(1)    The sum of gross revenues from all sources related to
water supply and sewerage operations and cash consumer
contributions in aid of construction, net non-operating
income and any reduction in non-cash working capital;
and
(2)    The sum of all expenses of water supply and sewerage
operations, including maintenance and administration
(excluding depreciation and other non-cash operating
charges), interest and other charges on debt (excluding
interest financed -under a loan contract), repayment of
loans (including sinking fund payments, if any) all taxes
or payments in lieu of taxes, all cash dividends and other
cash distributions of surplus, increase in net working
capital other than cash, and any other cash outflows other
than cash expenditures related to water supply and
sewerage operations.
(ii)   The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred
on account of fixed or capital assets, including interest charged to
construction, related to water supply and sewerage operations.
Section 4.03. The Corporation shall ensure that WSSD shall maintain a separate
account adequate to cover the planned costs of its asset replacement, including
rehabilitation of its assets.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and the
Bank and of the Corporation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with their
terms; or


﻿-6-
(ii)   the date 25 years after the date of this rgreement.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement or both of
said Agreements terminate in accordance with their respective terms before the date
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly
notify the Corporation of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                      197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC


﻿-7-
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                            197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For the Corporation:
Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay
Mahapalika Marg
Bombay 400001, India
Telex:
953-85973 WSSD-IN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Corporation
may be taken or executed by the Municipal Commissioner or such other person or persons
as the Corporation shall designate in writing, and the Corporation shall furnish to the
Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to the
Corporation and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated
prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)    the obligations of the Co .poration to consult with, and to furnish
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the
Association;


﻿-8-
(b)    the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information to,
the Corporation shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the
Association; and
(c)    all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of waivers)
by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be
taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in
the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
, y Regional Vice President
South Asia
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:       General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section I, as
applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)    Prequalification
Bidders for the works included in Part A (i) through (iii) of the Project shall be
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
(b)    Preference for Domestically  Manufactured  Goods and    Domestic
Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be
carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)    Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding
docunents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.


﻿-10-
Part C:       National Competitive Bidding
Contracts for works listed in Part A (v) through (viii) of the Project may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:       Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be fuirnished to the Bank for
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms
acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,


﻿- 11 -
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall
not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.     The Corporation shall implement the remedial works to be carried out under Part
A (vii) of the Project in accordance with the Remedial Works Program dated May 2, 1995
agreed upon among the Association, the Bank and the Corporation.
2.     The Corporation shall implement the Environmental Monitoring and Mitigation
Plan dated June 2, 1995, agreed upon among the Association, the Bank and the
Corporation.
3.     For the purpose of carrying out of the Project, the Corporation shall by August 31,
1995, establish and thereafter maintain a Project Management Unit in WSSD with an
organization and staffing satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
4.     (a)    In carrying out the slum sanitation schemes under Part A (vi) of the
Project, the Corporation shall apply, or cause to be applied in a manner satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank, the Policy Guidelines for Implementation of Slum Sanitation
Schemes dated June 1995, agreed upon among the Association, the Bank and the
Corporation.
(b)    With respect to each slum sanitation scheme, the Corporation shall furnish
to the Association and the Bank, a certification that the Policy Guidelines referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) above have been complied with in respect of such scheme.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


