STATUTORY COMMITTEE REPORT
TO:    The President, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Report of the Committee under Section 4(iii) of Article III of the Articles of Agreement
on the proposed Loan (Second Institutional Strengthening for Social Inclusion (Second
Institutional, Tax, Administration, Social and Investment) Development Policy Loan
(INSTANSI-DPL 2)) to the Republic of Indonesia.
The undersigned Committee constituted under Section 7 of Article V of the Articles of
Agreement of International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) hereby submits
its report pursuant to Section 4(iii) of Article III of said Articles in respect of the proposal that the
Bank grant to the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) a loan in an amount of four hundred
million United States Dollars (US$ 400,000,000). The purpose of said loan is to support the
Borrower's program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth and achieve
sustainable reduction in poverty.
1.    The Committee has carefully studied the merits of the proposal to grant such a loan, and
of the purpose to which the proceeds of the loan are to be applied.
2.     The Committee is of the opinion that the program in support of which the proceeds of
such loan are to be applied comes within the purposes of the Bank as set forth in Article I of said
Articles of Agreement, and that said program is designed to promote the development of the
productive facilities and resources of the Republic of Indonesia and is in the interest of the
Republic of Indonesia and of the members of the Bank as a whole.


﻿-2-
(Republic of Indonesia)                 (Second Institutional Strengthening for Social
Inclusion (Second Institutional, Tax,
Administration, Social and Investment)
Development Policy Loan (INSTANSI-DPL 2))
3.     Accordingly, the Committee finds that said program merits financial assistance from the
Bank, and hereby recommends said program for such assistance.
COMMITTEE
Senior Vice President and
and Group General Counsel
Expert Selected by Governor for
the Republic of Indonesia
Region al   e si dent
Eat A       Pacific Region
Managing Director and World Bank roup
Chief Financial fficer
Senior Vice President,bevelopment
Economics and Chief Economist
Dated at Washington, D.C.
lVp,e-I- / I 2o13


