 IEG
                                                                                                  Report Number: ICRR14743

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                         Date Posted: 05/06/2015

               Country: Nigeria
             Project ID: P104405                                                      Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Pre-paid Health                Project Costs (US$M):                       8.42                 3.94
                         Scheme Pilot In
                         Nigeria
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                        6.02                 3.94
      Sector Board:      Health, Nutrition and         Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Population
           Cofinanciers:                             Board Approval Date :                                      10/23/2008
                                                            Closing Date:                  06/30/2013           04/30/2014
         Sector(s):        Non-compulsory health finance (83%); Health (17%)
         Theme(s):         Health system performance (100%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                    Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl             Denise A. Vaillancourt Lourdes N. Pagaran           IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Grant Agreement (GA, p. 7) of October 23, 2008 the objective of the project is “to establish a
    community health scheme that will provide affordable pre-paid health insurance plans to low-income employees
    (and their families) of small businesses in Computer and Allied Products Distribution Association of Nigeria
    (CAPDAN) of the lkeja computer village in Lagos, as further described in the Operations Manual.”

    According to the Operations Manual (OM), the Project aims to increase access to quality basic health care in
    Nigeria by providing pre-paid health insurance plans to low-income small business employers (whose annual
    income is below 300,000 NGN) and their households and employees and their households whose businesses
    belong to the Computer and Allied Products Association (CAPDAN) in Lagos.

    The Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid (GPOBA) commitment paper (p. 12) articulates four specific
    objectives: i) encouraging low-income Nigerian families to enroll in pre-paid health insurance plans as a way to
    access affordable primary and maternal care, as well as treatment for prevalent diseases; ii) increasing the
    utilization and efficiency of idle private sector capacity to meet the country’s healthcare needs, instead of
    constructing new public facilities; iii) establishing and strictly enforcing standards of care in the private health
    sector, thereby restoring confidence among insurance beneficiaries; and, iv) demonstrating the viability and
    long-term sustainability of community health plans to encourage other HMOs to offer affordable and appropriately
    designed health insurance plans to low-income populations."

    This operation was funded under the Global Partnership for Output Based Aid

    According to the OM (p. 4): The GA, the formal legal document that regulates the relationship between GPOBA
    and the Grant Recipient, Stichting Health Insurance Fund (HIF), will defer to the OM for the description of the
    Project’s modus operandi. Any Project parameters specified in the GA however supersede the terms of this OM.
    HIF will bear full responsibility for ensuring operational compliance, including all fiduciary responsibility vis-à-vis
    the GPOBA GA and this OM.
   This Review will use the PDO in the Grant Agreement as basis for the validation

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

   The project included four components with the following appraisal estimates as stated in the Grant Agreement of
   October 23, 2008.

   Component 1: Insurance Premium, Marketing and Upgrading Subsidies (appraisal estimate US$ 4.6 million,
   actual US$ 2.2 million, 47.8% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance the following: i) subsidies
   for insurance premium of employees at 85% in the first year with a decrease to 42.8 % in the final year (appraisal
   estimate US$ 4.1 million, actual US$ 1.7 million); ii) subsidies for marketing, enrollment process and provision of
   relevant information to beneficiary (appraisal estimate US$ 197,000, actual US$ 280,077; and iii) subsidies to
   new service providers for upgrading equipment, infrastructure, administrative system, and training of personnel
   (appraisal estimate US$ 234,000, actual 155,954). This component accounts for the largest amount of
   undisbursed funds. Disbursement was low due to increasing co-payments and therefore continuously decreasing
   beneficiary enrollment rates starting in December 2011.

   During the June 2013 restructuring US$ 547,516 were reallocated from category 1a “subsidies for insurance
   premium” to the new category 6 “medical services”. Also US$ 206,106 were reallocated from category 1a
   “subsidies for insurance premium” for the implementation of the exit strategy to category 1b “subsidies for
   marketing” and to component 2 (Monitoring and Evaluation) and component 3 (Stitching Health Insurance Fund
   (HIF) management)).

   Component 2: Monitoring and Evaluation (Appraisal estimate US$ 953,000 actual US$ 883,365, 92.7% of
   appraisal estimate): This component was to finance the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the insurance
   program in terms of financial and medical reporting, and quality assurance by the Pharm Access Foundation
   (PAF).

   Component 3: Project Management (appraisal estimate US$ 261,000, actual US$ 249,987, 95.8% of appraisal
   estimate): This component was to finance the operating costs for the management of the project by the HIF. The
   appraisal estimate for audits was US$ 108,000, actual US$ 52,836, 48.9% of appraisal).

   During the project restructuring in June 2013, a new component was added through reallocation between
   components.

   Component 4: Medical Services (original estimate US $ 547,516, actual US$ 551,071, 100.6 % of appraisal):
   This component was to finance the payment of excess medical payout.



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost:

        Per Grant Agreement: A US$ 6.02 million Bank Trust Fund of which US$ 1.8 million was cancelled.
        Per Operations Manual: US$ 2.4 million user contributions (co-payments).

   Borrower Contribution : There were no contributions by the Recipient.

   Dates:

        On June 25, 2013 the project was restructured and the closing date was extended from June 30, 2013 to
         April 30, 2014. Also, funds were reallocated between project components (see section 2c).

   GPOBA disbursements were made against the following output criteria (Operations Manual p . 4):

   Hygeia Health Maintenance Organization (HCHC) is part of Hygeia Nigeria Limited, the largest health care
   provider in Nigeria, HCHC will receive the disbursement of GPOBA’s subsidies, which will be triggered by two
   factors:

        Enrollment level: each month the numbers of individual enrollment would be verified by PAF and trigger:
         1) a subsidy of 50% by the GPOBA to the premium cost relating to that enrollment (GPOBA contribution =
         yearly premium minus co-payment from beneficiaries).
         2) a one time fixed subsidy of US$ 8.14 for marketing per person enrolled paid during the first year the
         individual enrolls.

        Quality of service: Six months after enrollment, the Hygeia Health Maintenance Organization would receive
         the remaining 50% of the premium subsidy relating to that enrollment, if the provider meets the set quality
         standards as defined by the PAF during the most recent semi-annual monitoring and evaluation exercise. If
         two providers out of the 15 do not meet the quality standards which were defined for each provider, the
         margin for the Hygeia Health Maintenance Organization (20% of the premium) will not be disbursed until the
         quality standards are met or the respective providers removed from the Health Insurance Fund network.
        Upgrading: During a review of clinics in the area, up to two clinics can be identified to be added to the
         existing Community Health Program network. If a clinic is selected, PAF would conduct a medical review to
         assess the clinic's current level of performance and develop an upgrading plan for areas that were identified
         for improvement. Physical upgrading includes activities such as providing necessary equipment, and
         improving physical infrastructure. Also, medical and administrative staff would receive training on a regular
         basis during the duration of the project.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial: The PDO is relevant since Nigeria is not going to achieve the health Millennium Development Goals
   due to its high rates for under-five deaths and maternal mortality. Nigeria's performance is weak with regard to
   child immunization, malnutrition, delivery at a health care facility and family planning. The PDO is in line with
   Nigeria’s initiative for universal healthcare coverage as stated in the National Strategic Health Development Plan
   (2010-2015). The PDO was in line with the World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy (2010-2013) at the
   time of appraisal, which aimed to improve access and utilization of quality human development services for all
   Nigerians. The PDO is also in line with the current Country Partnership Strategy (2014-2017), which aims to
   increase access and utilization of health care services, utilize the potential of public private partnerships through
   its support to community-based health insurance schemes. Targeting this particular group, low-income
   employees of small businesses, is relevant as they do not have access to the National Health Insurance Scheme
   through their employers.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest: The planned activities to achieve the PDO were relevant. Activities to establish a community health
   scheme that will provide affordable pre-paid health insurance plans to low-income employees (and their families)
   of small businesses in Computer and Allied Products Distribution Association of Nigeria (CAPDAN) of the lkeja
   computer village in Lagos included the subsidization of insurance premiums of employees, promotion of the
   insurance scheme through marketing, and the support of new service providers in upgrading equipment and
   infrastructure, and training staff.

   While the causal relationships between some of these planned interventions and underlying assumptions about
   how these program actions would lead to intended outcomes were logical and properly laid out, the project
   design had several shortcomings. A target population study was conducted to inform project design. However,
   the scope of the study was too limited and it did not include sufficient information on setting the premium and
   what type of services to include in the benefit package. A more extensive target population survey might have
   indicated that a second increase of the premium rate would be unaffordable for poor enrollees and would lead to
   a decrease in enrollment rates. Also, the design did not plan for an alternative if the scenario of decreasing
   enrollment rates would materialize. The design included the contracting of expensive private health care
   providers for the implementation of a community health scheme, which resulted in the two hospital quitting the
   scheme since they sustained financial losses. Furthermore, the design did not involve the Lagos State
   Government which would have been critical for ensuring the financial sustainability of the project. Taken all this
   shortcomings into account, relevance of design is rated Modest.
4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

    Objective: To establish a community health scheme that will provide affordable pre -paid health insurance plans
    to low-income employees (and their families ) of small businesses in Computer and Allied Products Distribution
    Association of Nigeria (CAPDAN) of the lkeja computer village in Lagos , as further described in the Operations
    Manual

    Output

        Outreach and marketing activities to enroll and re-enroll the CAPDAN employees included sensitization of
         community members, medical outreach by providing free medical services such as blood pressure checks or
         screening for diabetes, and telemarketing campaigns.

    To establish a community health scheme : Substantial
    Outcomes
      The provider network, Hygeia Community Health Care (HCHC), had sufficient capacity to cater adequately
        to the needs of the current and projected enrolled population. This indicator was achieved.
      HCHC conducted a survey of capacity utilization, both provider capacity evaluation and network capacity
        evaluation, in 15 health facilities. Nine facilities were at optimum utilization capacity, two facilities were
        under-utilized, and four facilities were over-utilized. The network capacity in Lagos service provider network
        included 15 service providers, which was seen as adequate.
      All 15 service providers were in compliance with the service quality standards specified by the PharmAccess
        Foundation, surpassing the target of 14 providers. No service provider was removed from the network due to
        poor quality of services. However, three service providers left the networks due to non-profitability. Client
        satisfaction rate was 72%. The ICR, commitment paper or operations manual do not define how the client
        satisfaction rate was calculated.
      Between 2011 and 2013 the annual average SafeCare quality score of the five CAPDAN health facilities
        increased from 55 points to 79 points. This indicator lacked a target value.

    To provide affordable pre -paid health insurance plans to low -income employees: Modest
    Outcomes
      The total number of people enrolled in the pre-paid health insurance scheme was 4,884, not achieving the
        target of 22,500 people. According to the ICR, premium increases negatively affected enrollment. While
        enrollment targeted low income-groups, no information is available on socio-economic background of
        enrollees.
      The monthly re-enrollment rates to the pre-paid health insurance scheme was 58%. No target was set for
        this indicator and enrollment rates fluctuated substantially throughout the project.
      Insurance renewal rates, as an indication of enrollees' satisfaction, continuous use and therefore the
        sustainability of the scheme, increased from 48% in September 2011 to 58% in October 2013. Taking into
        account an estimated out-migration rate of 24%, the adjusted renewal rate was 77% in October 2013.
        According to the ICR (p. 18) renewal was subject of adverse selection and the amount of enrollees with
        hypertension increased from less than 10% in 2009 to almost 40% in 2013.


5. Efficiency:

    Modest: The Project Commitment Paper (p.31) conducted an analysis on the economic and financial returns
    based on the project investments such as upgrading the providers’ facilities, marketing, and maintenance of
    equipment and buildings. Interventions that were difficult to quantify were left out. The analysis assumed
    Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) margins of 8% of premium revenues
    for Hygeia and 10% for providers. This resulted in a financial internal rate of return (FIRR) of 11% for the project.

    The project commitment paper did not provide an extensive economic analysis since data for quantifying specific
    benefits that may occur due to the implementation of the project were not available. However, the project
    commitment paper provided a qualitative assessment of potential benefits of the project such as increased life
    expectancy and productivity, and improved quality of health care services which may result in a reduction of child
    mortality.

    The ICR (p. 41) conducted a cost-benefit analysis covering the five year period of provision of services. Project
   costs included insurance co-payments per enrollee, administrative expenses, capitation fees, entitlement fees, an
   d medical payouts. M&E, audit and unallocated expenses were included in the Stitching Health Insurance Fund
   cost category. The analysis assumed that initial costs for implementing the scheme were approximately 9% of
   total project costs. Also the analysis assumed that the benefits of the project were revenues (co-payments and
   premium subsidy) received by HCHC. The analysis did not take other benefits such as better health into
   account. A discount rate of 12% was applied. The analysis found a net present value (NPV) of minus US$ 7
   81,250 and a FIRR of minus 10%.

   The negative NPV results from the excess medical payouts by HCHC which then led a significant net loss.

   Also delays in project implementation were indicative of inefficiencies in the use of the project's financial
   resources (see Section 9b).



a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       Yes                                       11%                                     100%

   ICR estimate                    Yes                                       -10%                                    39.23%
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Relevance of objectives is substantial and relevance of design is modest due to some weaknesses in the design
   such as the continuous increase in premiums and lack of involvement of the Lagos State Government. The
   objective to establish a community health scheme is rated Substantial and the objective to provide affordable
   pre-paid health insurance plans to low-income employees is rated Modest. Efficiency is modest due to a negative
   NPV and negative FIRR. Therefore, the outcome rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory.
a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Risk to development outcome is significant due to several reasons. A follow-on project was designed by HCHC
   called the Hygeia Better Life Scheme. The Bank or HIF will not provide any financial contributions. In addition to
   CAPDAN, the new unsubsidized insurance scheme is also open to other urban poor groups, markets and
   communities. However, given that the premiums will not be subsidized, and co-payments will be three times
   higher than in the CAPDAN project and therefore might become unaffordable for the poor. Especially, since the
   continuous increase in premiums in the CAPDAN project already led to a decline in enrollment rates.



  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project focused on objectives that were in line with Nigeria’s initiative for Universal Health Coverage and
   with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategies. Also, the project design complied with the six core concepts
   of Output-Based-Aid. The project built on the lessons learned from the Lagos community health insurance
   program for low-income market women and added two providers to the already existing service provider
   network. Also, similar verification and monitoring processes were used.

   During project preparation, several risks were identified, but mitigation efforts were not sufficient such as for
   the affordability/willingness to pay by enrollees. Even though the actual increases in co-payments where
   smaller than originally planned, they had a negative impact on enrollment rates which continuously decreased
   after the last co-payment increase in January 2012. Also, the endline target for enrollment was unrealistically
   high. The Lagos State Government and the National health Insurance Scheme were not sufficiently
   consulted during project preparation, which added to the risk of financial sustainability of the project.

   In terms of safeguards, the project was wrongly classified as category C instead of Category B. This led to
   shortcomings in the implementation of measures for addressing management of healthcare waste.

   There were several shortcomings in M&E design (see Section 10).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank cooperated with the Global Partnership on Output-based Aid team and the three project
   implementation units to conduct joint review missions. The Bank provided procurement training which allowed
   for capacity building within HCHC.

   However, there were several shortcomings. It took the Bank over one and a half years to approve the request
   by the HIF to extend the closing date and restructure the project. This led to a decrease in marketing
   activities targeted towards enrollment, HCHC cut its staff by over 80%, and monthly performance reviews
   were reduced to quarterly reviews. The Bank did not revise the enrollment target rate despite evidence that it
   was unattainable. Also, issues such as over utilizing capacity of service providers and excess medical
   payments were not sufficiently addressed by the Bank. All this indicates that the focus on development
   objectives was rather weak. The Bank team stated that in OBA, the client agrees to absorb the operational
   and financial risk with regard to the project. This meant that the client agrees to pre-finance costs, and gets
   reimbursed based on verification of outputs. Hence, the client was under contractual obligation to continue
   implementing the project toward the achievement of the development objectives.

   M&E also had several weaknesses. Not all indicators stated in the operations manual were continuously
   tracked. Also, the Bank did not include all indicators in the Implementation Status Reports. The ICR does not
   comment on the candor and quality of performance rating. Financial management issues were not addressed
   appropriately and in a timely manner (see section 11b).

   Insufficient consultation with the Lagos State Government and the National Health Insurance Scheme was
   also an issue during project implementation. The Bank did not play a facilitative and corrective role between
   the implementing agencies, the Lagos State Government and the National Health Insurance Scheme.




  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   No assessment was provided in the ICR.



  Government Performance Rating                             Not Applicable

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
   The project was implemented by three project implementation units, Stitching Health Insurance Fund (HIF),
   PharmAccess Foundation (PAF), and Hygeia Community Health Care (HCHC).

   HCHC: Moderately Satisfactory

   HCHC was the local insurer which was contracted by PAF to manage all different aspects of the health
   insurance scheme such as signing service agreements with each provider, enrollment and co-payment
   collection. During project preparation HCHC conducted a market survey to identify potential target groups
   from which CAPDAN was selected.

   During the initial phase of the project HCHC lacked the necessary procurement capacity which improved
   during project implementation through the Bank's technical assistance. HCHC conducted extensive marketing
   activities to increase enrollment, however, this led to an overrun of the marketing subsidies budget. Between
   2010 and 2013 on time claims processing increased from 3% to 52%.

   HCHC and PAF asked the Bank for the project to be restructured and warned about the potentially negative
   impact of high co-payments. The ICR (p. 23) states that HCHC collaborated well with PAF.


   PAF: Satisfactory

   PAF, a Dutch non-profit organization, was responsible for the monitoring of the project. PAF submitted
   semi-annual progress reports which focused on quality standards of each service provider, enrollment levels,
   implementation status, challenges and solutions. Enrollment levels, co-payments, number of first time
   enrollees, total number of people enrolled were verified on a monthly basis, more frequent than contractually
   required. PAF collaborated with HCHC to define upgrading needs and quality standards for each service
   provider and monitored compliance. PAF was responsible for introducing the Safecare quality assessment
   scores for healthcare service provision in the private sector.

   The ICR (p. 23) states that PAF collaborated well with HCHC.

   HIF: Moderately Unsatisfactory

   HIF, is a Dutch non-profit organization. HIF was responsible for the management of flow of funds from
   GPOBA to the project, provision of oversight of the scheme, hiring of an external auditor, request of fund
   withdrawals from GPOBA on a semi-annual basis, and lobby for financing from donors. HIF was also
   responsible for the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation agreement with PAF.

   The project experienced a seven month delay after the signing of the grant agreement to meet the
   effectiveness conditions (the HIF and the Bank/GPOBA had to agree on the format for Interim Financial
   Reports and Annual Financial Statements). The ICR does not specify the cause of the delay.

   HIF submitted semi-annual reports and interim financial reports to the Bank in a timely manner. However, at
   project closing there were still unresolved financial management issues. HIF suggested a reduction of the
   enrollee target but the Bank did not agree.

    HIF was unable to obtain funds for a follow-on project. Therefore, HCHC had to design an unsubsidized
   follow-on scheme.

   Even though the ICR states that all three implementing agencies did not sufficiently corporate with the
   National Health Insurance Scheme and Lagos Sate Government, this seems to be an unfortunate outcome of
   the failure to include these agencies in the design of the project. Also, the ICR does not comment how these
   agencies could have done better if the design did not provide for it.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:
a. M&E Design:

   The causal chain between input and outcomes was not clear and not logically laid out. The objective of the
   project could have been more specific with a stronger focus on “improving access to and quality of primary health
   care services” since the PDO stated in the grant agreement focuses more on the “affordable” aspect and leaves
   access and quality, two important factors, out. Most indicators were measurable in terms of numbers. However,
   all indicators, except PDO indicators 1 and 3, lacked target values and all indicators either had a baseline value
   of zero or no baseline value. The proposed data collection methods and analysis were appropriate.

   While it was positive that a beneficiary assessment was conducted, only 10 enrollees were interviewed. This is
   not sufficiently representative of over 20,000 beneficiaries. Also, a questionnaire might not have been the best
   methodology.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Not all indicators stated in the operations manual were continuously tracked. Also the Bank did not include all
   indicators in the Implementation Status Reports.

   PAF's Monitoring of financial and medical reporting was an integral part of the project since verified outcomes
   triggered subsidy. Also, bi-monthly progress reports were produced by HCHC and verified by PAF. The reports
   identified implementation challenges and recommendations on how to address them. All agencies involved in the
   M&E process functioned effectively and efficiently.

   The ICR does not comment on the extent the system designed and implemented can be sustained.


c. M&E Utilization:

   HCHC and PAF provided feedback to health care service providers and CAPDAN on a regular basis. However,
   M&E results were not shared with the Lagos State Government. According to the ICR (p. 11) results from M&E
   informed decision making. However, the ICR does not provide evidence to support this claim. Also, given that not
   all indicators were tracked on a continuous basis, it is not clear to what extent M&E data influenced project
   modifications and adjustments. Indeed trends on dropouts increasing with increases in co-payments were not
   judiciously used to revisit the design and enhance prospects of meeting PDOs.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as category C in the project commitment paper. However, given the project’s impact
   on healthcare waste due to an increase in health care services provided, the project should have been classified
   as category B (potentially adverse environmental impacts).

   According to the ICR (p.12) safeguards issues were addressed appropriately.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management

   The project encountered financial management challenges such as excess payments for capitation and
   fee-for-service payments exceeding the budget. Therefore, a request for reallocating expenditure categories was
   submitted to the Bank in June 2013. Also, the ICR (p.39) states that several supervision and financial
   management reports indicated that the project management component was lacking detailed breakdown of
   occurring expenditures. When the project closed, there was not sufficient information to explain certain
   expenditures. The Bank team stated that by November 2014 this issue was resolved, which was within the
     extended grace period for disbursement-related matters.

     Interim financial reports with semi-annual progress reports were submitted by HIF on a regular basis. External
     audits were conducted on an annual basis and included unqualified audit opinions.

     The ICR does not comment on any financial management and accounting staff issues.

     Procurement

     During the initial phase of project implementation, the project experienced procurement challenges due to low
     capacity at HCHC. HCHC did not have a procurement specialist specifically for this project and was not familiar
     with the Bank’s procurement guidelines. The ICR does not specify what kind of challenges the project
     encountered. However, the ICR states (p. 11) that the Bank provided procurement training to build capacity
     within HCHC. The ICR does not comment whether there were any delays due to procurement issues


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
No

d. Other:
No


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR (p. 24) identifies several valuable lessons, including:

    In order to ensure government ownership and financial sustainability, coordination with different government
     levels during project preparation and implementation is critical. In this project, the Lagos State Government
     and the National Health Insurance Scheme were not sufficiently consulted during the project design and
     implementation phases which would have been important for future engagement and the sustainability of the
     project.
    Conducting an in-depth target population study can be useful to inform project design. Even though a target
     population study was conducted, its scope was too limited and did not include sufficient information on setting
     the premium and what type of services to include in the benefit package. A more extensive target population
     survey could have indicated that a second increase of the co-payment rate would be unaffordable for poor
     enrollees.
    Contracting expensive private health care providers for the implementation of a community health scheme
     poses a risk to its sustainability. In this project, two expensive hospitals decided to quit the scheme since they
    experienced financial losses.



14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides a comprehensive overview of project preparation and implementation and includes robust
    annexes with a good use and presentation of data and interesting graphics. The ICR's assessment of efficacy
    made a good attempt to construct and assess the entire results chain and was systematic in referring to PDO
    indicators, even those on which no data was collected. Also, the ICR is sufficiently candid and analytical in terms
    of assessment and ratings. The ICR is rated satisfactory.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
