Document of
The World Bank
FMO O CIAL USE ONLY
Reut No- P-3669-UNI
PORT AND RECOKE:NDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNAIONAL BAJNK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEOPMT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTO RS
ON A
PROPOS  LOAN
If AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USS41 KILLION
TO THE
i'EDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
SMALL- AID MEDIUK-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
December 2£, 1983
Xbis docuen b8 a mticte d__d     _d my be udbyw recpmol  _-X Se pfw eo
dabSA   duia lbs cofaf may me omi be db6wed            Wad Bm  x_wnfo



CURECI QUIYALETS
Calendar 1982      July 1983
Currency Unit  =       Naira (C)        Jaira (X)
US$t                   No.67            0.75
31              =      USS$149          1.34
Used in this Report: N I = USS1.51
ABBREVI5ONS
CBN    -  Central Ban of Nigeria
FRI   -  Federal Ninistry of Industries
IDC    -  Industrial Development Centre
NBC'I  -  Nigeriaz Bank for Commerce and  Industries
NIDB   -  Nigerian Industrial Development Bank
SiE    -  Small- and Nedium-scale Enterprise
SSIC   -  Small-Scale Industry Credit Scheme
FISCAL YA
January 1 - December 31
.



FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERTk - SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries: Federal Republic of Nigeria; Nigerian Bank for Commerce and
Industry (NEI)
Amount:         US$41 million, including capitalized front-end fee
*     Terms:          Interest on the loan would be at the standard variable rate.
Amortization would be over 17 years including 4 years of
grace.
Relending
Terms:          The Federal Government would onlend USS36 million of the loan
to NECI at a rete of interest of 9 percent per annum. This
portion of the loan -- USS35 million for credit and USS 1
million for technical assistance -  would be amortized over 17
years including 4 years of grace. Subloans to the final
borrowers would be subject to interest of no less than 12
percent per annum with maturities of up to 10 years and grace
periods up to 4 years. Final borrowers would also be charged
a one-time negotiation fee of 1.5 percent. The Federal
Government would carry the foreign exchange risk on the full
amount of the loan.
Project
Description:    The project would initiate a program to develop, in five
selected states of Nigeria, a structure capable of providing
technical advice and credit to small- and medium-scale enter-
prises (SHE). It would strengthen NBCI as a financial insti-
tution, develop its capacity to lend to SDEs, and train
federal and state extension workers in the promotion,
appraisal, and supervision of SMEs. In addition to credit and
training, the project would provide for some further studies
concerning the SEE subsector, in particular the potential of
small contractors.  Since this would be the first effort at an
integrated approach to SME development in Nigeria, the project
could experience some delay in putting in place the proper
institutional structure. The project seeks to reduce this
risk through the strengthening of NBCI.
Thi documet has a resictddistnrbution and may be used by ecipients only in the perfomanc of
thcoiiad duie Its conutcs may not oexrwi be dilsed without Wodd Bank authon  onL



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                     Local    Foreign   Total
- ---US$ Millions----
Credit                               20.0      35.0     55.0
Training                              6.8       3.8     10.6
Technical Assistance to NBCI          0.6       1.0      1.6
Studies                               0.5       0.6      1.1
Front-end Fee                          -        0.1      0.1
Total Cost (including taxes
and duties of USS5.1 million)      27.9      40.5    68.4
Financing Plan:
IBERD                                 0.5      40.5     41.0
Federal Government                    6.8        -       6.8
NBCI                                  9.6        -       9.6
Sponsors                             11.0        -      11.0
-otal                                27.9      40.5     68.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year         1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
~~~-Z S-M- --S 1lions -- - -
Annual               0.2    5.0    8.7    8.9    7.2    5.3    3.5    2.2
Cumulative           0.2    5.2   13.9   22.8   30.0   35.3  38.8   41.0
Staff Appraisal Report: 3597-UNI, dated November 15, 1983



INTERNATIONAL BAh'K FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR A SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a -proposed loan
to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of USS41 million to help
finance a small and medium-scale industry project in Nigeria. Interest on the
loan would be at the standard variable rate. The loan would be amortized over
17 years including 4 years of grace. The Federal Government would relend
USS36 million of the loan to the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry
(NBCI); of this amount, US$35 million would be further onlent by NBCI to
small- and medium-scale enterprises at not less than 12 percent per annum
(excluding negotiation fee), vith terms of up to 10 years.  The Federal
Government would carry the foreign exchange risk on the full amount of the
loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic mission visited Nigeria in May/June 1982, and a Country
Economic Report (No. 4506-UNI) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
August 15, 1983. Selected social and economic indicators are given in
Annex I.
Background
3.       Nigeria, with a population of over 90 million in 1982, is the most
pop-ulous country in Africa. Among sub-Saharan Bank members, Nigeria accounted
for about 45 percent of gross output and more than 60 percent of regional
investment in 1980. Its GNP per capita is estimated at about US$820 in 1982,
which is twice the average for sub-Saharan Africa. While Nigeria, as a major
oil exporter since the early seventies, enjoyed a substantially improved
resource base from increased oil revenues, it still remains at a very early
stage of development in terms of socio-economic Indicators, in which it
compares with other sub-Saharan countries.
4.       Following a civil war and 13 years of military rule, a new federal
constitution was adopted, and an elected civilian government came into power
in 1979. The constitution vests considerable powers in the state and local
governments, while it maintains a delicate balance between regional autonomy
and preservation of national unity. The country seems to have adjusted well
to the new form of government and to civilian rule, and national elections in
August 1983 went, overall, smoothly. President Shagari was reelected by a
wide margin, and his party obtained a majority in both houses of the National
Assembly.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Fertilizer Project approved by the Board on September 13, 1983.



-2-
Macro-economic Developments
5.       Nigeria has been undergoing a rapid socio-economic transformation
since the upsurge of oil prices in 1973-74, which dramatically altered the
country's resource position. During the seventies, Nigeria's development
strategy was based on sustaining a high rate of growth and diversifying the
economy through the resources generated by the oil sector.  The principle
objective of the policies pursued by the Nigerian decision-makers was to
translate the large oil revenues accrued--about US$100 billion in current
prices during the 1973-81 period--into investments in economic, social, and
physical infrastructure. While there have been some 'non-economic" invest-
ments and waste, significant development gains were made in both economic and
social infrastructure. Transport infrastructure, particularly roads and
ports, expanded considerably. Power generating capacity tripled, and refining
capacity more than quadrupled since 1973. Manufacturing grew at an average
annual rate of 12 percent during the 1973-81 period although there was a
highly distorted investment structure. There also has been a rapid spread of
education at all levels; in particular, the primary enrollmeat ratio which was
about 35 percent in the early seventies has more than doubled.
6.       Developments have not been as positive in some other areas.  In
agriculture, overall output remained virtually stagnant during the 1973-81
period, with production of grains increasing at the same rate as the popula-
tion growth rate, but production of root and export crops declining substan-
tially. Within a decade, Nigeria became a major food importer (US$2 billion
of imports in 1981). This was caused partly by sudden and rapid growth of
public expenditures, which outpaced the growth of public revenue, and which,
along with a dramatic expansion in domestic demand, resulted in high rates of
inflation. Inflation coupled with an appreciating domestic currency pushed up
domestic costs of production, thus putting the commodity-producing sectors at
a disadvantage vis-a-vis imports and non-traded goods. This encouraged diver-
sion of resources from commodity production to services (including trade and
construction). Both agriculture and industry became "high-cost" producers.
Trade and exchange rate policies, which were formulated in response to
frequent swings in oil export earnings, were largely used to dampen infla-
tionary pressures or ration imports rather than to provide appropriate incen-
tives to domestic production. This was partly due to the fact that, as a
result of the fluctuations in the world oil markets and their impact on the
balance of payments and government revenues, Nigerian policymakers have been
preoccupied with short-term crisis management. This has diverted attention
from formulating longer term policies to reduce the country's dependence on
oil and to strengthen the domestic productive sector.
7.       The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) was prepared in 1980 when the
world oil markets again presented a favorable outlook and, accordingly,
reflects an ambitious investment program. It did not envisage, however, the
sudden downturn of the world oil markets in 1981. The sharp decline in oil
production by about one-third, to 1.43 mbd, changed the short- and medium-term
prospects for the Nigerian economy significantly. The Government, during most
of 1981, was reluctant to come to grips with the situation and continued to



count, along with most observers of the oil markets, on a quick recovery of
the oil situation. As the oil market deteriorated further, imports continued
to rise as importers sought to teat the likely impending shortage of foreign
exchange. Consequently, the current account balance in 1981 showed a deficit
of about US$5.5 billion, which had to be financed by drawing down foreign
exchange reserves and external borrowing. By the end of 1981, foreign
exchange reserves had declined to US$3.9 billion, almost one-third of the
level at the end of 1980, and equivalent to only two months of imports. Like
the balance of payments, public finances were also strained, since oil
revenues account for more than 80 percent of revenues of the Federal and state
Governments. The Federal Government kept its expenditure level in 1981
largely intact by deficit financing, amounting to about US$6 billion. The
state governments, which had increased their spending rapidly, partly as a
result of a shift of responsibilities from the Federal to state governments
following a change in the revenue allocation formula in 1,981, found it more
difficult to cope with the sudden shortfall in revenues, since they had
limited access to domestic credit. As a result, some state governments
resorted to borrowing abroad on a substantial scale.  By the end of 1981,
outstanding external debt (including undisbursed) of the state governments was
about US$4.5 billion - slightly more than one third of the country's total
external debt. Despite the increase in imports and the attempt to maintain
the level of government expenditures, growth in the non-oil sectors declined
considerably. Along with the substantial retrenchment in the oil sector, real
GDP declined by 5.2 percent in 1981.
8.       In 1982, the oil markets continued to be slack, and Nigeria's oil
output declined further to an annual average level of 1.29 mbd. In the face
of rapidly rising imports in the first few months of 1982 and mounting foreign
exchange shortages, the Government, in April 1982, took a series of measures,
including: (i) increasing import duties and quantitative restrictions;
(ii) restricting imports through introduction of an advance deposit scheme;
(iii) tightening customs administration; (iv) cutting back capital expendi-
tures about 40 percent including stopping of all new projects; (v) increasing
gasoline prices about 33 percent; (vi) increasing interest rates 2 percent;
(vii) placing a $350 million ceiling on each state government's external debt;
and (viii) restricting capital transfers abroad. These measures were
primarily intended to arrest the further deterioration in the domestic and
external financial situation, although elements such as increases in interest
rates and the price of gasoline also reflect the Government's intention to
redress widespread price distortions in the economy. In addition to these
measures, the Government has pursued an exchange rate policy which resulted in
a depreciation of the naira of 19 percent against the dollar and 5 percent
against the SDR during the period 1980-82.
9.       The various actions have not yet been sufficiently successful in
reversing the trend in imports, in part on account of the high level of import
approvals during the first quarter of 1982, prior to the April measures. The
current account deficit reached US$7 billion in 1982. Because of a further
drawdown of foreign exchange reserves of about US$2.3 billion, reserves
dropped to about $1.6 billion at the end of 1982. In addition, arrears in
payments of short-term trade credits of about US$3-4 billion developed during
1982. Although payments on longer-term borrowing remained current, this had a



sharply adverse effect on the availability and cost of external borrowing as
well as on the continuation of normal trade transactions. The Government has
since taken measures to establish priority categories for systematic payment
of these arrears, and has started the process of rescheduling important
categories of these trade arrears (see paragraph 12).
10.      The Federal Government has generally found it difficult to cope with
the deteriorating financial situation, although the 1982 budget was reduced
after the stabilization measures were announced in April 1982. Budgetary cuts
were imposed on capital expenditures, inevitably at a substantial cost to
ongoing development programs. The financial crisis was particularly acute at
the state level. Some of the state governments were even unable to pay civil
service salaries and had to resort to tne Federal Government for loans.
Consequently, most of their projects were grossly underfunded, and some had to
be stopped.
11.      In its 1983 budget proposal, the Federal Government adopted a con-
servative revenue outlook, based on an oil production level of one million
barrels a day 1/ and substantial cutbacks in planned investment expendi-
tures. Certain projects with large foreign exchange requirements, such as the
standard-gauge railroad project, were deferred indefinitely. In January 1983,
the Government introduced further import restrictions in the form of license
requirements and higher tariffs to reduce the level of imports from US$1.3
billion to less than US$900 million a month.
Adjustment Policy Issues
12.      At present, the Nigerian economy faces two critical issues: first,
management of the short-run financial crisis and stabilization of the economy;
and second, longer-term structural adjustment of the economy by stimulating
productive sectors, lessening dependence on oil, and generating a wider re-
source base. With regard to the short term, the additional measures that the
Government to k in January 1983 to control imports have helped to arrest a
further deterioration of the external financial situation. However, there now
remains the need to eliminate the external arrears, particularly in view of
the requirement for substantial external borrowing in the near future. Dis-
cussions with major overseas creditor banks resulted in the rescheduling of
the arrears owed to these institutions (for confirmation of letters of credit)
of about $1.4 billion accumulated prior to Narch 31, 1983. Repayments are to
be made over a period of 31 months starting January 1984. As a result of this
agreement, the commercial banks will likely make available to Nigeria a
revolving trade credit of about US$1.0 billion. A subsequent rescheduling
arrangement amounting to about US$0.6 billion, on basically the same terms as
the earlier arrangement, is expected to become operational in mid-November.
The remaining documented arrears (estimated at $3.3 billion as of end June
1983) are largely private non-letter-of-credit arrears incurred under "open-
account- inter-company import financing. These will also have to be
rescheduled, but the arrangements to do this are likely to be more complex and
1/   Oil production is now expected to average 1.2 million barrels a day
in 1983.



- 5 -
time-consuming. To these documented arrears must be added a backlog of
foreign exchange requests awaiting documentation. The IMF, which has been
asked to examine tie possibility of assisting Nigeria through an Extended Fund
Facility (EFF), is taking the need for such reachedulings into account in
putting together a financing package to meet Nigeria's minimal external
financing requirements for the period 1984-86.
13.      While a rebound in oil revenues would help Nigeria to overcome the
current crisis, it will not resolve the structural issues facing the economy.
More vigorous and consistent policies, beyond the measures taken to restore
financial stability, will be needed to bring about structural change. The
chief requirements comprise: (i) further incentives for efficient export
promotion and import substitution, including appropriate exchange rate,
tariff, and credit policies; (ii) complementary steps to strengthen the
balance of payments through judicious management of foreign borroving and
external reserves; (iii) continued control of aggregate demand through
prudence in monetary, fiscal, and wage policies; (iv) restructuring the
composition of public investment to increase its efficiency; and (v) taking
steps such as raising interest rates and improving tax collection, to increase
private and public savings and investment. The Government is currently
discussing all of these policy issues with both the IMF and the Bank.
Prospects and Financing of Dev'lopment
14.      Although Nigeria's exportable crude oil surpluses are expected to be
significantly reduced well before the turn of the century, the bulk of its
foreign exchange resources will continue to come from the hydrocarbon sectors
during the next twenty years. This will probably include liquified natural
gas (LNG) for which a major production facility is estimated to come on stream
near the end of the decade and some petrochemical as well as oil exports. To
maintain a momentum of growth, major structural changes are needed for
adapting the economy to lower levels of oil export earnings. In the short-
run, the volume of Nigeria's oil exports is likely to be determined by the
ancertain conditions of the world oil markets rather than by the deliberate
extraction policies of the Government. It is projected that oil production
would rise to 1.5 mbd in 1986, from its level of 1.29 mbd in 1982.
15.      Terms of trade are expected to deteriorate somewhat in the short run,
and then to improve beyond 1985. However, gains from terms of trade will not
substantially alter the longer-run resource picture or the need for structural
adjustment.
16.      External borroving requirements in the short- and long-term will be
substantial in riew of slow improvements in oil export revenues, the need to
clear payment arrears, and the requirements of major ongoing projects. In
1983, the current account deficit of the balance of payments is expected to
amount to about US$3 billion (5 percent of GDP) and result in a large overall
deficit of about US$4 billion. The deficit will, in all liklihood, be finan-
ced mostly by additional accumulation of private trade arrears, apparently
already incurred. In subsequent years (1984-86), the overall deficit is
likely to remain large. Thus, the balance of payments prospects for these
years are particularly troublesome. Large claims on foreign exchange earnings



are due in 1983-86, essentially on account of trade arrears and repayment ^f
public guaranteed debt. Even under conservative assumptions with respect to
imports--virtually no change in real imports--borrowing requirements for the
period 1983-86 are estimated at about US$11 billion; even at this level the
investment program would have to be highly constrained. Since the level of
reserves :s already quite low, further drawdown cannot be used to finance the
deficit as happened in 1981 and 1982. Thus, quick disbursing external
borrowings are needed to fill the gap. Estimates of future debt service
ratios have had to be revised upwards in the light of lower forecasts of oil
production and prices and, more importantly, of the arrears. The debt service
ratio, which has been quite low until now (around 9.6 percent in 1982) is
expected to rise to 20 percent in 1983. If all trade arrears were liquidated
during the 1984-86 period on terms similar to those being rescheduled, the
debt service ratio would jump to 35 percent in 1984 before declining to 33
percent in 1985 and 27 percent in 1986. However, it is likely that the trade
arrears would be rescheduled over a longer time perio; in which case these
debt service ratios would be lower. Beyond 1986, the debt service ratios are
likely to be 20 percent (with d conservative assumption of oil production of
1.5 mbd) or less. Thus, whilst recognizing that Nigeria has a short-term debt
problem, our judgement is that Nigeria is creditworthy for medium- and long-
term borrowing provided sound economic policies are pursued by the Govern-
ment. Indeed, increased lending that would disburse over the next few years
when the debt service ratio is sharply increased and thus import capacity
sharply reduced, would be a vital component of the economic reform and
recovery program (para. 13).
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
17.      Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of September 30, 1983 amounted to
US$2,362.8 million (net of cancellations).  The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of September 30, 1983 was US$1,068.5 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,294.3 million. Agriculture accounts for about 48
percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water supply together for
about 37 percent; and education, industry, urban, and the post-war rehabili-
tation loan for the remaining 15 percent of total commitments. There have
been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are fully
disbursed. IFC has made five loans to borrowers totalling US$17.3 million,
and six equity investments totalling US$4.9 million. Of these amounts, US$5.7
million have been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
18.      As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil, public
revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run into
serious counterpart funding problems. This issue is particularly acute for
some of the state-level agricultural projects. The Bank, the Federal Govern-
ment, and the relevant state governments have taken various measures to
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Fertilizer Project approved by the Board on September 13, 1983.



- 7 -
alleviate the situation. The Bank has agreed to the reallocation of proceeds
and revision of disbursement percentages to speed up disbursements, and the
Federal Government has established a development loan stock scheme providing
supplementary loans for agricultural development projects in the states. As a
result, the prospects for state funding of Bank-assisted projects are now
brighter.
19.      In view of the efforts made by the Nigerian authorities and the
serious foreign exchange constraints projected for the coming years, we
propose to continue to respond positively to the Federal Government's request
for additional financial and technical assistance. However, such assistance
would not be fully effective without some changes in the country's macro-
economic and sectoral policy framework. The Bank is therefore considering, as
a priority, assistance of a fast-disbursing nature aimed at supporting
specific macro-economic and sectoral policy initiatives; this includes, in the
first instance, the Fertilizer Loan approved by the Executive Directors on
September 13, 1983. The Bank is also considering a request from the
Government for a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL).
20.      Provided appropriate policy changes are obtained, an expanded Bank
lending program would aim primarily at the urgent diversification of Nigeria's
economy to reduce its excessive dependence upon petroleum as a source of
foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the same time, the Bank would con-
tinue to support efforts to raise the productivity of the lowest income groups
and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. As in
recent years, the Bank would continue to provide major support to agriculture
and rural development, with particular emphasis on institution-building and
transfer of technology. These objectives are in line with the Federal Govern-
ment's priorities under the Fourth Plan, which places considerable emphasis on
agriculture, and emphasizes the need to use the proceeds of the country's oil
revenues to increase the productive capacity of the economy, and thereby raise
the standard of living of its population, particularly the rural poor. The
Bank would similarly support efforts to stimulate a well-balanced and
integrated development of Nigeria's industrial sector. This approach would
entail a combination of intensive sector work, policy dialogue with the
Government, as well as Bank assistance for industrial projects in crucial
subsectors, including the currently proposed project.
21.      Projects in agriculture and industry together should account for a
large share of Bank lending in the coming two or three years. Effective
support for the commodity producing sectors will also require strategic
investment in production-related infrastructure, however. There are good
opportunities for the Bank to make a significant contribution in energy, water
supply, and highway maintenance. Similarly, there is a strong case for con-
tinued lending for education. In this context, vocational, technical, and
teacher training would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would
support the Federal and state governments' efforts to spread the benefits of
growth to the social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing
problems of rapid urbanization will continue to be addressed through a number
of urban development projects focussed on the needs of the urban poor. The
Bank is also considering a request from the Federal Government to assist in
overcoming the country's health problems, and has started a dialogue with the
Government on population issues.



22.      Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million in
FY1978 to nearly US$167 million in FY1983, Nigeria's disbursement performance
has lagged behind that of other countries in the Region. In the last three
years, undisbursed balances have progressively increased and now stand at 55
percent of the US$2.4 billion in loans and credits approved. One of the
reasons for this development is the rapid expansion of the Bank's loan port-
folio since 1979 as well as the fact that a number of large loans, with
relatively large, planned disbursements during the early years, were extended
during this period, mainly for agricultural projects. In many cases, however,
there have been long delays in loan effectiveness and institutional and
management problems that have slowed down disbursements. Recently, the
inadequate counterpart funding of projects by Federal and state governments
resulting from lower oil revenues, has been the principal cause for slow
disbursements. The disbursement record in agriculture has been mixed- At
least until recently, disbursements have been generally faster in the case of
integrated agricultural development projects, but substantial shortfalls
compared to appraisal projections have been registered in the tree crop,
forestry, and livestock subsectors. Similarly, education and power projects
have been particularly slow in disbursing. The Federal Government, with the
assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now carefully monitoring loan
disbursements with a view to early identification of problems and the taking
of corrective action. Also, the Bank has recently agreed to a series of
measures aimed at accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and new
projects (para. 18). These efforts are beginning to show results.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
23.      Although the industrial sector has so far played a relatively small
role in the country's economic development, its importance has increased
steadily. Total manufacturing accounted for approximately 4.7 percent of GDP
in 1974-75 and 6.1 percent in 1979/80, reflecting an awerage annual growth
rate of about 14 percent. However, while the aggregate growth of manufac-
turing output, largely fueled by the oil boom, was relatively high in the
1970s, some industries remained either stagnant or declined. Overall, produc-
tivity may well have fallen during the decade, and the structure of output
remained relatively undiversified. Intra-sectoral linkages have so far
remained weak, and geographical dispersion has not been significant. As a
result of the Government's indigenization policy, equity has been las-ely
transferred to Nigerians. However, management, particularly of larg v
industries, remains by and large in the hands of expatriates, due substan-
tially to the shortage of sufficient qualified, indigenous managers.
24.      Manufacturing is dominated by the traditional sector in terms of
employment and by the modern sector in terms of output. Large scale and small
and medium scale modern enterprises (SMEs) each account for about 8 percent of
the total manufacturing work force. The remaining 85 percent is comprised of
artisans outside formal establishments. The average size of production units
appears to be growing, reflecting in part the increasing number of large
government-owned complexes such as those producing steel, chemicals, and tex-
tiles. At the saae time, although the proportion of small firms does not



appear to have changed much, the number of medium-sized firms seems to be
diminishling, at least in relative terms. This development is worrisome, since
it is precisely ihese enterprises whi'!h reinforce sectoral linkages, disperse
investment and employment, and provide experience for future managers.
Government Policy and Institutions
25.      Although the general business environment in Nigeria has always been
strongly private sector oriented, Government has greatly influenced industrial
development, bot-h directly and Indirectly. Directly, as in many other oil
economies, Government has undertaken most of the country's investment in large
industries of national importance for which local private capital was not
available.  Indirectly, private sector investment decisions have been affected
by a host of government decrees and regulations aimed at promoting and
regulating industrial development. This, however, was achieved to a large
extent through Increasing recourse to tariff and quantitative protection
measures, resulting in large distortions in the domestic price structure and
in the pattern of industrial investment. Mainly as a result of government
policy, modern industrial developmeit has been blased to some extent towards
large government and foreign-owned industries, many of which depend on
imported inputs, and rely upon excessive protection and budgetary support.
Efficiency is generally low.
26.      The recently issued draft Industrial Policy and Strategy Statement
and the Guidelines for the Fourth National Development Plan C1981-85) recon-
firm the Government's commitment to industrial development as one of the mai
pillars of Nigeria's long-term development. The Government's aim is to
develop industries using local raw materials (especially agro-related),
strengthen intrasectoral linkages, emphasize manpower and technological
development, disperse investment regionally, promote export-oriented indus-
tries, and stimulate small-scale industries. Priority is being given to food
processing, textiles, building materials, engineering, chemicals, electrical
equipment. and household durables. Labor intensive industries are also being
encouraged. A more vital role would be assignad to the private sector, with
the role of Government focussed on infrastructure investment, establishment of
an appropriate legal and regulatory climate, and undertaking investment in
heavy projects such as steel, fertilizer, LNG, petrochemicals, and cement. On
the whole, these plans seem to be an important step in the right direction
but, to realize the plan objectives, will require a major and time-consuming
effort on the part of the Government, particularly in identifying and imple-
menting the necessary policy changes and establishing the appropriate
administrative mechanism. The Government has asked the Bank to assist in this
regard (para. 41).
27.      Industrial policy making and management is the primary responsibility
of the Federal Ministry of Industries (FPI), although there is some overlap of
responsibilities between federal and state agencies. In practice, PHI has so
far concentrated most of its efforts on assisting large industries. The state
ministries of industries have focussed on providing industrial extension
workers to assist SKEs, in which field the states have a comparative advantage
because of their intimate knowledge of the local environment. The National
Advisory Committee on Small-Scale Industry provides advice to federal and



- 10 -
state agencies on SKE promotion. Outside government, the University of Ife
has established its own small industries consultancy service. and the ILO-
supported Centre for Nanagement Development is actively eagaged in working
with SlEs.
28.      Desp-5te its bias in favor of large industries, FRI has become in-
creasingly committed to assisting SKEs. Based on a USAID-financed study
carried out in 1962, the ministry has now established 13 Industrial Develop-
ment Centers (IDCs), and is planning six new ones to cover all of the 19
states by next year. The IDCs provide assistance and guidance to small in-
dustries on process techniques, selection of machinery, training, and manage-
ment through the establishment of workshops and provision of specialized
machines, service and teating equipment, libraries, training courses, and
extension work. The centers have suffered from serious financial and staffing
constraints, however, and there has frequently been a lack of coordination and
cooperation between the IDCs and the relevant state ministries.  Despite these
problems, the basic concept underlying the IDCs is sound. Given adequate
funding and staffing, detailed operating procedures, and a careful implementa-
tion of expansion plans, these centers should be able to operate as central
training points for staff from state mizistries in the appraLsal, promotion,
and supervision of SNEs. Moreover, they are well placed to act as referral
centers for difficult technical and managerial problems encountered by state
extension officers.
29.      The Small-Scale Industrina  Credit (SSIC) scheme was established by
the Federal Government in the mid-1960s, and now covers all of the 19 states.
It relies on matching funds from the Federal Government and the states, but is
being managed by state agencies, generally the state ministries of industries.
The scheme aims to promote and appraise small projects, and to provide credit
to them. It has had some success in establishing a core of industrial exten-
sion officers and a pipeline of projects, although performance has varied
considerably from state to state, and the credit component has generally not
been successful, either in the selection of sound beneficiaries or in loan
recovery. In all of the states, however, the scheme has been affected by more
or less the same problems as those affecting IDCs:  inadequate funding and
staffing and insufficient coordiaation and cooperation between the various
implementing agencies. Despite these inadequacies, the concept of state-level
organizations for SXE promotion and appraisal is justified. Given proper
training, the industrial officers in the state ministries are generally the
best placed persons to know the needs of and to ad ise small local entre-
preneurs. However, the ministries are not well equipped for handling the
financing aspects of the scheme which could best be provided for by a finan-
cial institution.  The Federal Government has, in fact, stopped making funds
available to the states through the scheme, and has instead. since 1981, been
relying exclusively on the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry (NECI;
para. 35) to channel these funds.
Financial Policies and Institutions
30.      Nigeria has a relatively well-developed and highly regulated
financial system. In. addition to a number of merchant banks, state and
federal development banks, savings banks, mortgage banks, and other financial



- 11 -
institutions, there is an extensirz commercial banking network that is
increasingly spreading throughout the country. Commercial banks have
furnished about two-thirds of term lending for manufacturing, mainly to well-
established firms, but hare consistently failed to reach the Central Bank of
Nigeria's (CBN's) targets (para. 31) in respect to locally-owned small-scale
enterprises.  As a result, apart from lirited funds available through the SSIC
scheme, Ye:y little organized form of credit exists for small-scale
enterprises in Nigeria.
31.      CBN, in addition to its regulatory functions, has played an active
role in fostfring and directing the growth of the financial sector.  It has
participated in the promotion of the domestic money and capital markets,
sustained the establishment of such development bauks as the Nigerian Indus-
trial Development Bank (1IDB), NBCI, and the Nigerian Agriculture and Cooper-
ative BannL.  It has required commercial banks to establish additional branches
in rural areas, and has set sectoral guidelines for commercial and merchant
bank lending.  Currently, commercial and merchant banks are required to allo-
cate at least 36 perceent and 41 percent, respectively, of their total loans
and advances to the manufacturing sector.  Moreover, 40 percent of total loans
and advances are required to have maturities of not less than three years, and
banks should maintain a mini-um credit allocation of 70 percent to indigenous
borrowers of which 16 percent for small-scale enterprises. CEN also sets
interest rate guidelines, subject to periodic revision. Since November 1982,
these guidelines provide for interest rates across sectors ranging from 6 to
13 percent with a maximum lending rate to industry of 11.5 percent for loans
maturing within three years and of 13 percent for those with longer maturi-
ties. The lending rate guidelines for KIDB and NBCI now range from 10.5 to 13
percent. Although interest ratis in Nigeria are still below the rate of
inflation projected at 15 percent for the medium term, rates have moved up
considerably over the past few years. In addition, the Government and the IMF
are discussing the need to move to a more flexible interest rate policy which
would take account of developments in domestic prices and interest rates
prevailing iL international financial markets.
32.      In view of the partial overlapping of NIDB's and NBCI's activities, a
1976 government study recommended that NIDB assume the rolp of apex bank for
large-scale enterprise lending and NBCI similarly for SXE lending.  Both banks
were also expected, as part of their apex lending roles, to furnish technical
assistance to client commercial banks and state development finance compa-
nies.  So far, however, NIDB and NBCI have limited their activities mainly to
direct equity and loan financing of medium- and large-scale enterprises.
Although a combination of apex banking with direct lending by NECI appears to
be the most appropriate mechanism for SHE assistance, the Federal Government,
NBCI, and the Bank agreed during appraisal that the currently proposed project
should only deal with direct lending by NBCI to keep this first effort at SHE
development as simple as possible.
Constraints and Prospects
33_      in view of the urgent need to diversify the economy (para. 13),
industrial development through the establishment of viable productive enter-
prises will have to be accelerated. However, as mentioned earlier, this



- 12 -
development has been less than satisfactory. Various important disincentives
continue to affect all industrial actlivities.  For example, no city or town in
Nigeria is i= a position to offer adequate industrial infrastructure, and the
enterprise which does not have its own power and often water supply winl be
subject to frequent production interruptions.  In addition, all activities are
affected by faulty communications, difficult transportation, and elaborate
public administration requirements. Other disincentives affecting SIMa are
insufficient human skills and financing. Concerning human skills, there does
not appear to be a lack of entrepreneurial initiative, but rather a lack of
management and technical skills.  Insufficiency of capital is less a question
of absolute availability of financial resources than one of inadequate finan-
cial intermediation, which has resulted in serious funding problems for SMEs.
Finally, as mentioned earlier, but perhaps even most important, government
support for industrial development in general and for the SEE subsector
development in particular has been inadequate. As a result, output and em-
ployment growth have been in the larger firms and in the small informal
sector.  On both counts there has been a relative decline in the importance of
medium-scale industry, which is essential as a link between heavy capital-
intensive operations and small firms. To reverse this trend, the Government
will have to (i) alter the current incentive system to encourage investments
consistent with overall government policy, (ii) streamline administrative
procedures for processing domestic and foreign private sector investment
applications, (iii) continue to improve industrial infrastructure, (iv) im-
prove its project promotion and evaluation techniques, Cv) speed up the domes-
tic capacity to promote and evaluate technological development, and (vi)
provide training aimed at overcoming the most serious manpower shortages.
34.      The alleviation of these constraints would significantly increase the
potential for the industrial sector and for SHEs in particular in view of the
groving level of general economic activity, rising consumer demand, and the
increasing recognition by Government of the potential role of SEEs in the
country's economic development.  For example, in the five target states sur-
veyed for this project, about 300 firms with projects costing nearly N60
million apppear feasible over the next three years. The longer term prospects
are also good as existing large enterprises establish linkages with SEEs, and
the economy is restructured to encourage productive activities on a broader
base. In this context, NBCI will have an important role to play.
Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry
35.      NBCI was established in April 1973 to promote and assist indigenous
enterprises in the areas of commerce and industry through eqaity investments,
loans, guarantees, underwritings, and merchant banking services. Its autho-
rized and paid-in capital is N50 million. The Federal Government and CBN are
its sole shareholders, subscribing to 60 and 40 percent of shares respective-
ly. NBCI's board of Directors is largely made up of experienced businessmen.
Its senior management is competent and well trained, but quite thinly spread
and hampered by lack of experienced support staff. NBCI currently employs
about 130 professionals, of whom about 80 are engaged in appraisal and super-
vision activities. Although NBCI's draft policies and procedures need to be
further refined and complemented, they provide an adequate institutional   -



- 13 -
framework for NBCI's activities. Their endorsement by NBCI's Board would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Loan (Section 6.01 of tLe Loan Agreement). 1/
36.      As of March 31, 1983, NBCI had approved a total of 306 projects
amounting to -1332 million, of which equity investments in 108 projects
accounced for 8 percent, loans in 290 projects for 71 percent, and guarantees
in 30 projects for 21 percent. The average cost of approved projects was N2.0
million, while the average size of NBCI's assistance was N0.8 million. NBCI's
active portfolio, as of December 31, 1982, consisted of about 180 projects
amounting to N110 million, of which loans accounted for 196 million and equity
investments fer N14 million. Partly as a result of unorganized and inadequate
investment supervision and recovery efforts, the overall quality of NBCI's
porfolio is weak, with about 63 percent of the portfolio affected by arrears,
of which about two-thirds has been due for more-than one year. For this
reason, NBCI's management recently undertook an action program to intensify
project supervision, improve loan recovery, and reduce arrears. Initial
results are very encouraging, and the rate of progress on its organizational
and procedural components is satisfactory. The program includes reorga-
nization and staffing of investment supervision activities, implementation of
a complete general accounting and control system designed by the bank's audi-
tors, and establishment and staffing of a separate Investment Recovery Unit
within the bank's Accounts Department.
37.      1'BCI's net profits over the five years preceding 1980 averaged about
2 percent of net worth. Since then, however, growth in operating costs has
outpaced earnings, and NBCI has recorded losses of N0.1 million in 1980 and
12.4 million in 1981. Several factors have contributed to this decline in
NBCI's profitability. First, additional borrowings from the Government at
higher costs than previously have significantly raised the financial expenses.
Second, establishment of several new branch offices with resulting increase in
staffing has maintained the administrative costs at a high level. Third, low
interest rates charged on SME loans, at the Government's request, have not
allowed for a sufficient spread. Fourth, returns on equity investments have
been relatuvely low. Finally, NBCI's arrears situation has necessitated
increasing provisions against portfolio losses. Prospects for a rapid
improvement in NBCI's profitability are, however, reasonably good. The
Government has, in principle, agreed to convert N60 million of its N110
million outstanding debt into equity, which would significantly reduce NBCI's
financial expenses and, as from the beginning of 1983, NBCI's interest rates
on all loans have also been raised. These developments, coupled with more
vigilant portfolio management, project supervision, and intensified collecting
efforts, already underway, should result in restoring NBCI's profitability to
a satisfactory level.
38.      Though the existing arrearage and low profitability situation is a
reason for concern, NBCI remains creditworthy and financially viable because
of its strong equity base and low level of borrowings. NBCI's long-term debt
to equity ratio has consistently remained low, ranging from 0.4 in 1977/78 to
1, This condition has recently been met.



- 14 -
2.6 in 1982. The corresponding figures for total debt to equity were 0.6 and
4.6, respectively. So far NBCI has borrowed mainly from Government at subsi-
dized rates. Although the Government is expected to continue assisting NBCI,
the Government's own budgetary constraints would not allow it to provide all
of the long term funding required by NBCI over the medium to longer term.
Because of NBCI's current weak portfolio and profitability situation, it would
probably also have difficulties in obtaining long-term loans from commercial
sources in the near future, a situation which is expected to improve gradually
with the institutional strengthening to be provided from the technical
assistance component of the proposed project.
39.      Despite its present institutional weaknesses, NBCT is endeavoring to
develop into an effective development finance institution specializing in the
provision of assistance to SHEs, thus complementing NIDB, which concentrates
on larger projects. NBCI has already obtained a considerable knowledge of the
sector because of its involvement in the SSIC scheme. The technical assis-
tance program included under the project is expected to considerably enhance
NBCI's institutional capabilities, particularly its expertise in SME lending.
Bank Role
40.      The Bank Group has been involved in Nigeria's industrial development
since 1964. At that time, IFC was instrumental in the recapitalization of
NIDB. IFC has since participated in six investments in Nigeria. The Bank has
approved four lines of credit to NIDB of US$6 million, US$10 million, US$60
million, and US$120 million in 1969, 1970, 1978, and 1983 respectively. The
latter line of credit (Loan 2299-UNI) was approved by the Executive Directors
on June 2, 1983. A Project Performance Audit on the first two lines of cred-
it, dated October 10, 1977, conclud=d that the projects had been implemented
satisfactorily, but that the Bank's impact on the sector as a whole could have
been mwre extensive. OED also suggested the use of banks such as NIDB and
NBCI as apex lenders to state, local, and commercial banks to stimulate the
flow of long-term lending, but it was agreed during appraisal that the cur-
rently proposed project should first aim at strengthening NBCI's direct lend-
ing operations.
41.      The project would be an essential and integral part of the Bank's
efforts to stimulate a well-balanced and integrated development of Nigeria's
industrial sector. On the whole, the Government's broad sectoral objectives
point in the right direction, but their realization will require a major and
time-consuming effort on the part of the Government, particularly in formu-
lating and implementing the specific policy changes that are needed for
establishing the appropriate administrative mechanisms. The Government has
asked the Bank to assist in this regard. Accordingly, the Bank is undertaking
a major program of economic and sector work with the objective of providing a
basis for a continuing policy dialogue with the Government on issues affecting
the industrial sector. More specifically, this program aims at providing
inputs for current government efforts at translating the Government's broad
industrial development strategy into concrete policy changes designed to
improve industrial efficiency and encourage greater private initiative. An
Industrial Incentives Report has been completed; this proposes a medium-term
program of measures (including adjustment of exchange rates and reform of the



- 15 -
incentives and protective system) to restructure the incentive system, to
improve its administration, and to streamline the regulatory framework. This
report was discussed with the Government at an interministerial committee
meeting in April 1983, the outcome of which was generally positive. The
Government has already indicated its intention to implement certain of the
report's recommendations (e.g. phasing out of duty concessions on imported
inputs), and has asked the Rank to provide an industrial incentives technical
assistance loan to support these efforts. It is also expected that necessary
policy changes in relation to trade protection incentives will be addressed
under the proposed EFF program (para. 12) as well as the possible SAL (para.
19). A preliminary study of Financial Intermediation has been completed, with
follow-up work to be undertaken to, among other things, (a) identify or devel-
op further mechanisms for financial intermediation; and (b) help formulate
mechanisms for the Government to productively invest its oil revenues. Our
sector work program also includes studies (at various stages of preparation)
on several key subsectors, such as construction materials, agro-industries,
basic metals and engineerings, petrochemical industries, and industrial in-
frastructure. These subsector studies also aim at identifying promising
investment opportunities for Nigeria and developing suitable projects for Bank
Group financing. An in-depth review of the public investment program in
manufacturing has recently been prepared, and is currently being discussed
with the Government. The recently approved fourth line of credit to NIDB will
reinforce ongoing and future sector policy dialogue between the Government and
the Bank while supporting the main objectives of Nigeria's industrial strategy
by focussing on priority subsectors (e.g. agro-industries and intermediate
goods). The currently proposed loan will complement this approach by encour-
aging employment creation, efficient regional dispersal, and strengthening and
deepening of the financial institutions and SME extension service systems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.      The Rank first appraised an integrated small-scale industry project
jointly with UNIDO in 1973. During negotiations, the Government and tne Bank
were unable to agree on some organizational and procedural issues, and further
consideration of the project was deferred. Subsequently, during the appraisal
of the Third NIDB project (para. 40) in 1978, both parties agreed that an
effective approach to industrial development would require an integrated
effort to reach both large and small firms. In practical terms, this means
supplementing Bank lending to NIDB, which concentrates on relatively large
industrial projects, with some other lending scheme that would focus on SMEs.
Since then, work has been carried out to survey the potential of and con-
straints to SKEs. The concept and design of the proposed project reflect this
work as well as extensive discussions with federal and state officials. The
project was appraised by the Bank in March 1981, and the Staff Appraisal
Report (3597-UNI) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held with federal and NBCI representatives at the Bank in
December 1981. Although the draft documents were approved by the President-
in-Council and NBCI's Board of Directors soon thereafter, the submission of
the documents to the Executive Directors was held up pending the resolution by
the Nigerian authorities of various issues, including the onlending rates and



- 16 -
institutional arrangements by NBCI for the recovery of outstanding loans.
These issues have now been settled. Supplementary data on the project is to
be found in Annex III.
Project Objectives
43.      Two important considerations underlie the project design and objec-
tives. First, the topographical diversity of Nigeria, combined with ethnic
and language differences, necessitates a decentralization of an SME credit and
technical assistance program to the local level to reach entrepreneurs in
their places of work. Second, the size of Nigeria, the diversity of SME
problems, and existing staff constraints impede inplementation of a national
industrial credit and extension program in one project at this time. Any such
program must initially be limited in its geographical scope, and phased over a
number of years. The proposed project represents the first phase of a longer-
term program. To begin with, five target states-Cross River, Imo, Niger,
Ondo, and Plateaurhave been selected in consultation with the Government;
these states are extraordinarily diverse, and the proposed project should
consequently provide relevant experience for an effective expansion of the
program to most other states of the Federation.
44.      The basic objective of this pilot project is to develop a core of
trained manpower and an efficient institutional structure capable of providing
credit and technical advice to viable SMEs. To this end, the project would
strengthen NBCI as a financial intermediary, develop its capacity to lend to
SMEs, and support the Government's growing efforts at assisting SMEs by train-
ing federal and state extension workers in promoting, appraising, and super-
vising SMEs.
Project Description and Implementation
45.      The project would provide:
(i) a line of credit to NBCI for onlending to SMEs (US$35 million);
(ii) a comprehensive program of technical assistance for NBCI to
strengthen its effectiveness in financial intermediation and lend-
ing to SMEs (US$1 million);
(iii) support to FMI to establish an effective training program for
federal and state extension workers and IDC staff, thereby develop-
ing a local capability for technical assistance to small and medium
entrepreneurs (US$4.3 million); and
(iv) funds for studies on the small-scale industrial sector, including
the need for incentives, the potential for small-scale contractors,
and the production by SMEs of local building materials (US$0.6
million).
46.      The line of credit to NBCI would provide term resources for financing
of fixed assets and permanent working capital in viable SME projects. Eligi-
ble borrowers would be 100 percent Nigerian-owned enterprises whose total



- 17 -
assets (including existing and those proposed to be financed under the line)
would not exceed Nl million. Other general eligibility criteria include (a)
residency within one of the five pilot states; (b) proper business registra-
tion; and (c) equity contribution of at least 20 percent to the total project
cost. Eligible subprojects would need to have a local value added of not less
than 35 percent and a minimum economic rate of return of 10 percent. Further-
more, to ensure that a minimum share of credit would reacn small-scale enter-
prises and/or labor intensive projects, at least 30 percent of the line of
credit would be earmarked for enterprises with total assets not exceeding
N300,000 or for projects with a cost per job of less than N7,500 in 1983
constant prices (Schedule 1, para. 1 of the Loan Agreement). All subproject
applications from NBCI would incorporate a capital intensity analysis. NBCI's
subloans under the line of credit are expected to average US$0.5 million,
which is considerably smaller than the average size of NIDB's subloans.
47.      The line of credit would finance up to 100 percent of the amount of
NBCI's subloans subject to a ceiling of 70 percent of the total subproject
cost, the latter coefficient estimated to represent the direct and indirect
foreign exchange content of SME investments in Nigeria. Loans to subborrowers
would carry maturities ranging from 4-10 years, inclusive of a grace period
from 2-4 years; the average maturity is expected to be 8 years, inclusive of a
3 year grace period. All loans to subborrowers would be denominated in
Nairas. The Federal Government would assume the foreign exchange risk in view
of the lack of sophistication of SMEs and in line with the Government's objec-
tive of facilitating their access to credit at a reasonable cost. The final
lending rate to SME borrowers would be at least 12 percent, in addition to a
one-time front-end fee of 1.5 percent. Subborrowers would also be charged a
commitment fee of 0.75 percent on the undrawn balance. These charges would be
adjusted in light of any increases in or additions to the rates and fees
charged by NBCI on its overall lending operations (Part A of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement). All in all, the minimum effective cost of credit to
the final borrowers would be about 13 percent. The adequacy of NBCI's inter-
est rate structure would be reviewed annually by the Government, NBCI, and the
Bank, taking into account the CBN guidelines, NBCI's average cost of re-
sources, and its overall competitiveness (Sections 4.03 of the Loan Agreement
and 2.06(b) of the Prcject Agreement).
48.      To assist NBCI in improving its institutional capabilities and par-
ticularly its development banking activities in the SME sector, the project
would include a comprehensive technical assistance program. This assistance,
to be provided by a suitable overseas banking institution with experience in
similar activies and/or by experienced individual advisors, would focus on
NBCI's SME development activities. It would concentrate on project lending
and supervision techniques, while also covering such areas as branch opera-
tions, accounting, internal control, financial management, portfolio admini-
stration, loan recovery, and legal procedures. The program would aim at
managerial and staff training through on-the-job coaching and training visits
to similar banking institutions overseas. This program is expected to be
implemented over three years and to require up to five man-years of long-term
and three man-years of short-term advisory services as well as about 45 man-
months of overseas training for NBCI staff.



- 18 -
49.      The training of extension workers would consist of about 96 man-years
of training (about 27 outside Nigeria), covering some 815 participants in 63
different training sessions and courses. Although the program would focus on
the training of state-level extension workers in the five pilot states, it
would also include personnel of FRI, IDCs, and NBCI branches. The training
program would be administered in several phases broken down by course content
and target group.  Where possible, extensive use would be made of local con--
sultants and training facilities.
50.      Implementation of the training program would be the responsibility of
a project monitoring unit within the Small Scale Industries Division of FMI.
This unit, staffed by three full-time officials supported by up to four man-
years of short-term advisory services of three expatriate training experts,
would design course curricula, lead courses, locate local and external train-
ing resource persons, arrange for training facilities, and monitor course
participation and attendance. A three-year program outlining the courses by
subject, duration, and location has been formulated. The courses would cover
small loan management, investment appraisal, project implementation, and
supervision. Courses would be geared to the needs of specific groups and
would be largely carried out in the respective places of work. Staff and
facilities of the IDCs and other suitable local training institutions would be
used to the maximum extent feasible. Adjustments to the proposed training
work program would be made, as necessary, by the project monitoring unit.
51.      Since the proposed project is only a first effort at SNE development
i-a Nigeria, some studies will be necessary to identify potential areas for
further small-scale entrepreneurial development. Consequently, the project
would assist FMI in carrying out a study of the small-scale industrial sub-
sector, incluiing the need for incentives and the present extent of and poten-
tial for SME sub-contracting with particular reference to the building mate-
rials industry. The findings and recommendations of this study would provide
inputs in defining the proper course for further SME development in Nigeria.
Project Cost and Financing
52.      Total costs are estimated at about US$68 million (including taxes and
duties of about US$5 million) of which the foreign exchange component would
amount to US$40.5 million or about 60 percent. A breakdown of cost by major
categories is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
53.      The proposed loan of US$41 million to the Federal Government would
finance 65 percent of total project cost, net of taxes and duties, and would
cover the foreign exchange costs of the project and US$0.5 million of local
costs of the training component.  Of the remaining project costs, the Govern-
ment would contribute about US$6 million, NEBCI US$10 million, and sponsors of
subprojects US$11 million. The Bank loan would be amortized over a period of
17 years including 4 years of grace. The Government would carry the foreign
exchange risk (para. 47).



- 19 -
Onlending Arrangements
54.      The Government would onl.nd US$36 million of the loan to NBCI at a
rate of interest of 9 percent per annum but otherwise on the same terms as the
Bank loan. The 9 percent interest rate would allow NBCI a spread of 3-4
percentage points (para. 47), the minimum required by NBCI for covering its
loan processing costs. The difference between the rate charged to NBCI and
the Bank rate would be borne by the Government. The signing of a subsidiary
agreement between the Government and NBCI would be a condition of loan effec-
tiveness (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
55.      Procurement of equipment and goods under the credit component is not
suitable for international competitive bidding given the relatively small size
of investments to be financed under the line of credit. NBCI's procurement
guidelines are adequate, but, since they have not always been enforced, the
Bank would closely monitor the procurement procedures. Procurement of
consultancy services (US$2.4 million) would be on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The project would require about five manyears of
long-term assistance and seven manyears of short-term assistance at an average
cost of US$16,500 per man-month. I/
56.      The proposed loan would be committed during the period 1984-88, and
disbursements would be completed by 1991. The first three subprojects from
each of NBCI's branches in the five pilot states would require the Bank's
review prior to commitment, irrespective of their amount. Thereafter, a free
limit of US$150,000 per subloan with an aggregate limit of US$10 million would
apply. After one year of operation, these limits would be reviewed and
adjusted as appropriate. The Bank would follow normal disbursement procedures
for the credit component, reimbursing 100 percent of approved NBCI subloans up
to 70 percent of subproject cost. Disbursements for technical assistance to
NBCI and studies would be against 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and for
overseas training and technical assistance to FMI against 100 percent of total
expenditures. An advance of US$286,500 has been approved under the Project
Preparation Facility to allow for the early recruitment of key experts
required by both NBCI and FMI.
Benefits and Risks
57.      The promotion of the SME subsector is essential to the establishment
of a viable and balanced industrial sector in Nigeria. Yet, despite good
potential for growth, development of this subsector has been constrained by
the unavailability of adequate financing and the relative weakness of the
supporting financial and technical assistance agencies. A major benefit
expected from the project is that, by strengthening NBCI's institutional and
financial capabilities and upgrading the skills of the federal and state-level
1/   Including basic salary, allowances, gratuity, medical and education
benefits, settlement costs, international travel, and company overheads.



- 20 -
extension workers, the project would make an important contribution towards
alleviating these constraints. The improvement in the provision of extension
services and in NBCI's financial intermediation would in turn stimulate in-
vestments in the subsector and enhance the quality of SME development in
Nigeria. An added benefit would be that, by requiring all investments under
the project to locate in one of the five pilot states and to meet the Bank's
usual criteria of economic, financial, ad technical viability, the project
would contribute to the promotion and realization of more efficient enter-
prises away from the traditional centers of industrial development, such as
Lagos. Finally, as mentioned in para. 46, investments to be financed by NBCI
uader the project are expected to be considerably smaller than those supported
by NIDB, the other financial intermediary receiving DFC-type lines of credit
from the Bank, thus enabling the Bank, under this project, to reach enter-
prises at the lower end of the industrial spectrum.
58.      Project implementation faces some risks.  The project would be a
first effort by the Bank to provide integrated assistance to SMEs, and could
thus be subject to possible delays in improving or putting in place the deli-
very structure. The technical assistance and training component is designed
to reduce this risk. There is also some risk that subprojects under the
project would not meet the technical, financial, and employment objectives set
by NBCI and agreed by the Bank. However, this risk would be largely mitigated
by the Bank's process of subproject review and approval, and subsequent moni-
toring of subproject performance.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Nigerian Bank
for Commerce and Industry, and the report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III including the following conditions of effectiveness of the loan and dis-
bursement of the credit component (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement):
(a) signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the
Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI); and
(b) approval by NBCI's Board of Executive Directors of its policy state-
ment.
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. V. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 28, 1983
Washington, D.C.



r COPY AVAILABLE    - 22 -                                                                                      5
N100116              R             8gCRm   N   ~~~~~~~~~~~~-"RA1 ~N" 3A5
'!b      1970&  RF-1b            ARC  s   rSHR
633                                  9123 8                   512.692                                    1 340. D
ACRIC'ILTUUM                       200.0       330.0       370.0             Ita'
GM vg. CAITA t   )i                                                              724S.2 .00.
prism in29.0  5.0169.0
TOUS   Am VtTAflO   R =TM        315 8l 16.4                20.9
POZ &ATIO1N Kvaoi2JIoN                                       623.6OM
OMAN^: fO!A101; (    T
POPULATION PRtOE f 200 (H3LL)64
It , T&A   N (ILL)                         26
pDOLATlION 1    tR   "                                  2140         
,TAT20O1,&V poPlAISA  WU36.0
VWt STA tONAWRy for. RACR                                                    56.5                    369.0
FOPIJUTlOW t,NST                    55.9        71.6       19.7               13t.8
pel Ss                           125.0        333.9
PIER SQ. 104. AR.                                                            65.l                     52.
AG STrIUCSUR£ ()         452         456 6        77                5t.2                      3.3
FOPIJATION                                                  160 99              2.0
15-6  iRS                          2.3         2.6         2.9
65 ASP ASO                                                                    2.0                      4.6
25   2.5                 5.3
povUXOT( GRltUCRH RATE               2.4         2.5         4 65                                       42.5
TOTAL                              4.7        |47                            j7.6                     12.0
IR.                                           50.7        49.6               15.2                      3.0
20.0             16.6                3.2
CODEitlT RATE (MR Tl)              2s.3
CRUDE IDFAT  RZ (MR         s)         34         1  0    3.6  3
G ULOSS IVR.=6,Ox                               '''M  7.6
FANILT PLANNING O5
Ac OSS.                                 ,. (Ti
us"RO mAjiRm   em"                                                                               97.5
INDE AM    FOOrO     TER3            100TA to.0  102.0       92.0               p5.7
19A9-7t-00)                         ,,97.1                                                         72.0
82.0       91.0               S2.0                     17.6
:, CPIT  SUFILT OF E              83.0        66.0        169.0              1.
PAERIC  (  F  S31NDh)                 0                                        7.
mRor11    AnD To DAY)               o0.0      10.0        11.60,
OF iUXCN ANiMAL AMD PULSSE24                 350         2.
CHILJ) (AM  1-4) DENTR I~~~~~ATL                           s519                    1,06.2
AN ORSSw S RArE  (PER   200 5)  30.7     63.7        19.1              117.6 I D.*
IFAS              153.E                        153.0       133.0
1w                                                       ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~25.6  049
lo so, ,ATER (%lop)                                                     70.5.
ACCESS                                                                       12.3                    37.
ACCES '0 KICRETA D,ISPOSAL
(2  loIPOLAflO63
TOTAL.                            630.070
RURAL                                           569~~~~73500.  0.07?64.
pouRSnowMpIIN17.                                                                                      4
Poll: SI   MPI5 o  o               0 0OA      2 2          370YI0  I.3926.7                              6.
RIUM
AVERAGE SIZE OFIDM
URRMI67
AVERAGE V0- or     193os/3041
3.0         2.21A
esw                                                                               4~~~~~~626  .  6.2
AcCEsS T0 ELECT. (y of iwsi.wIVGS)              4:A1.
URBR                                             - 
-347



a IwrrY ARAVILABIE
-23-AlIEg I
Page 2 of 5
ILGEA                 - SOIL IM5CA1UR DAI 
-L1                                                                     /a
nes                      010ST'  OIOsE - IUA ) lb
ffCL'.",Xg IDOLE  DNOMMMM
1W9        I.97d E                AFRIC  S.ir FSAA 5t      AERICA _  MM  M-!ID E
ra==u  sa&HL.M        sALJ
PRL4MY:  TOAL                    36.0        37.0'       98U               Y7.Z                     9.6
ALE                    46.0       47.0          *-              103.1                   104.,
PEBALE                 27T O      27.0           .              88.5                     7Z.4
SEDAY: -O.AL                      4.0         4.0        Lb_0              17.2                    41-7
!IAE                    6.0        6.0                          23.5                     52.6
FEBALS                  1.0        3.0           .              14.2                    31.2
waCrINSAL ( OF SEO3MA-E)            4.          8.5         3-11t             5.2                    10.3
VUPIL-ITEAim  AIO
PRI.ILWT                         30.0        34.0          .               42.9                    31.9
SECO DATa                        19.0        21.0 -Z                       23O7                    23.3
ADULT LITERACE RAZE (;)            t5.4/e        .         34.0              37.1                    '3.3
?ASSEICER CARS/TAOGSAM POP          0.6         0.9         14a.             18.8                    18.0
RADIO *ECEIVMSITHDUS    POP         Z.6        t9.3       66.1               97.8                   138.1
T1 1iEAVES/TIWSAsm  OPt             0.0         1.1         5.3              16                      45.6
AD.SAP£A (OAILX II EMAL
Lvmacsr}) CI=LUXrLs
PER TiDLa SO  LOP;UATIO            5.5         4._         6..91f           1d8Z                    3.0O
CL-rA AQr= AXEVDAICAPLT              ..          -.        0.4C               U.6                     1.7
tLA
tOmi. LABO RISCE C(}WS)         217885.0    2599Z.0    31635.0
FLSALZ 5ERCE~t)                  4L.3        40.6        39.8              36.L                    10.7
a SiLTUIE (FERCEr)               -t.O        6Z.0        54.0              56.8                    42.5
.IUUSIWL C(EPCZSh)               LO0        14.0       19..)              L7.5                    27.5
PARTICIPATI'hL R"    CPERCT)
IUTAL                            4.2        39.3        36.1              37.0                    25.6
:-ALE                            50.3        47.3       44.0               47.1                    45.4
FESALF                           34.4        315        28S4               27.o                     5.6
EIC   OEFESE3CI i841                1.1         IZ         L.4                1.3                     1.-
- D
PCEr OF PEzV-E 1hE
RECEIVED Er
IGOESr   e F OF
gzY  2OF          5                             .OUSEOLDS                    -
LDUS ZZ OF OISEOLDS               .           ..
1WESr 4= OF MOUSEaDLIS             .           ..
Pa D T Cms
ESTiXSAD ABSOIUTE POVES! ISO
LEVEE (USS M CAPItA)
URAS                               .                   696.01k            534.2                   276.1
MURAL                               .341.01k                              255.9                   177.1
ESTIBAIED RELATIVE POVEEM IlCtlFE
lEVEL (US3$ FEl CAPITA)
tlilfAS                                                 62I_01k           491.5                   400.0
RURAL                                                . 207.07i            18.1                    283.3
E-TI1AIED POFP 8ELLh ARSOLUZE
POVEAY 18M8E LEVEL CZ)
03545                              ..          ..A.. .'                                            22.0
MU=AL                                          *-         *-                 *-                    30.8
..T AVtAILABLE
3I07 APPLICABLE
la The group averages for esAh Indicator am population-weLghted aritimtic mans. Cove_age of coutrIes    g the
Indicators depends on availabilLty of data and Ls not unifors.
lb Unless otherulse noted. -Data for LbO- refer to may yr betweet 1959 and 1961; -Vata for t970- betmen 1969 and
1971; and data for -lost Recen Est1mts- batwas 1979 and 1981.
fe 1974; Jd 1977; le 1962; if 1976; &  197Z; /b IncludLng em-North Cameroon uer BrItish admInItratlon; I Certain
fields of study prevIosly clamsfied under other second level education of vocational or technical nature are now
reported under genral edecatLon: 11 197S; hk 1982.
May 1953



saaaaAaaj   ;a~~~aaaaA pa. aasfln   aaaa~~                           aid A.-aai   -ss   zq..  LR n-a).  v-nnsas
M--..cn   -tin  -  n-nf                                                           -i--f n- isad . - Mainnn-t    pa -aai-Satta   L
it.Cp asaad    .mnanidd aaad-  in  p aflaa-.aad,I -  laa
__'_a                                                            -P.1~   .ta   S  bds) Ai4p- n
-.-aan  a-a t.? IS'-.I .7d It. a-Idi
-nfl -(aaaa   au-sia-1 .ia.m    -i-ainsI              iltaam ladPa-iad               aas  .a_ita-.  n-ai u-i-tt-  J -Pn iaai  -iM  a;n -* -f
--a---a-a  alatisat  mca  a; am-sn(-  is azn'is-a--diai -3.-a      man   ..pt*-   a-    tat-aitnq
l- .a-an A-d; psi-pa  ani   t    Laiza  a   an--   naaA-ai-naadd  aada   a-  *auas.       sm                                                                ia
daida mMasai  it.a-.   -    --   i.z    asiian.-                                                   Zupt   -nan-n !' a~aa  a-a4  m-      a na -1pisai
- i*i-a p. a-an - (flitiid  Sn) Pai    II~   at-id   ldnIS  raannaan        Y          T i- "a t  i-i-a-an . ain-ad -api-i  All -I.
s-t.ti tzat.ai i-f-at.. i-a..-   t~ 5a, addeap  iaa-isri          - iflt. tAN t-% -2  paa -w  aaaaan.di-         M.ana)aa     5a -   a-arM
telna   atimp-Ia  i~i aa-iiit   la-anam          an.  aaa                                ac   n   - lana  ama  fatIm   ca1   !.-.Ma a-  F-n vit. A
- ua  -aknt -(tut id 1))a-i  tci.gaaaas -am   pi=a.                                -. .s-M .aana: 5n as-P ia- 1a -. (iataM  ia) aa  Laianada  cad
-olaiLnac   i- -    a-na-aL.   -  -.aatanai!                                       laat. -a:: in d.-anaL       an& Ast.a - .-ai- mama. ana-aaaa.
A.  n."T.3-M  3  ~      ~      ~      ~     -arcma-                             na    -i       -Ts  as-niJ  atdd- -an -'a- padad    ny .a-ti.
is sa-s.  a   -zi-d a   a-aza  : ania-   aaaaad& a--a-m  )naia             Jataaa  antnj!ea   I   -iaa t-ariasa a  sin. .i C-as. -a
5    :-SiE a-a       -aa-la ---a-zz  ~ d  l.-iaif-m   a.a-aaa)p---i                                      sa.aa--ti -an-na an-.;aa  qann   PI.W-da, a
p- 2.3-N  'ftl-a n  -j                                                A~~~~~~~~U? in ca-a   nt-  P    n-a V- OV-A A   p.-av a-a-  .-ia ptia
J.-  2- --_ddn-  an   a-    as- -n*t'a  ana.-1 =a- P-  `II-a- -ia alza  a-n   -  -sa-a a
-  aa  pa ~  s-IiAd- isatntda--nn    nta  -n."aS  ia-ass)                                      at     p dId` a pa-dI a-i %n.la-  !ia- d%~   raS
a-sadd, -d-      a-as-_;          ads     -a-in. "san 5- s--AddL  anda-nv u-  a    -z-   -na- ca4-isa  I-ia-A-
U    a-t  aau-a  -n~tispt'dea c  aaa-a-na-as  -aana                             a-adn a4    n sa- ani da-a  n-a_T  s , c -ma -una iA.   nan na-i
0%i iafln5 ASin~ w15  - ~     flcp ia-i p-n a-si                         ma inaa-       aa..Aa- aar -   -n  cmaVaa                  ha    a
izaa  iihiAasia id-                                     -z-'Ar s-ii- nsa nIiciIaitpdn-.
da 2-   P"        AL   Wi itc        nt-dsa?dlsanaa'.,i naa-   -idai.aaaa-  a-m    ~'ia
Pa.  -s-a  a tq       ti.aaa   - AL.s-ta, -3 acsa-an)najinr  mn                             a-a  p-sdq       asaaasa         acaa-d isia.- -     na--nsa
a dadd"ada a-  "Aa  TV  M V-~    -1--m "P.M                     lldS  .ns-    sIt .   n.... t- u-au  .aa-a atinc1      al5     -p-a
wapiad--         dIdtaap  -?-d  a- vn-  ci-a  a.it    i- a-aaIm                                                                                  acct a- cnaa- -mm  .
au-at.. S) a--S -iaa.n.as.i pa-d,'A;  ai*a.aai   aa-c.sa                                                   di~      at. aO--n '  cad   -daiiaW   i
-anaa) n-f-i f A.      d.-anaa .n.  nn-  a; pan tnii- ac ~-.                       t.d t.aila   ca-.adisaa          mn  n--s   a-.amna-r a idar.d
naiaam  a paa.saaaa    -p-  I-ia   .Sn'da -a--s   a   sid s-adal                  p-a.   isnsa  -(                 an." aaSti.     flaAa-
- sn-s-., ts aaa-i a  - caasniaa- Pi-nagsaaj ~Al-na   a                                                                              -a-abs_d     I   -  A  .3
-as- an.-aa-anaat.i   a ti J_ s- aiin        1 =-a~     p.aiaaafl                                                           -tCl
ni-i  qnaaai  -atin             sa%-  adcnn 11 nsa  aa  aaa-amn  p-- l;a-a..at aaa-a   a-saat.  n- -a  p-az-  -aaipsi-                                        n
is  sa-Si tn-qn-  n--li-  2-a.z;     a      -a cAl-a ba-e--n                                                         -nap,    :a    ataa-   aln-
n-4 P-ft  -mrsw   v-r-n Air-   !--z  do-t-m- A-wd-pi..s  s-a-;l  d -nai;s   aIi"                             Pan-na- aa  -vn  as  pi
-11s~     we_ us.-  -    -i -Tu-  Ai1  St-  a-ca an- Siii   -d--Pa    -in-n3-a - aw1 -in-fldai -;P dant
- (atn  - s-i  -Maa  )apt  anaa     ,  aaaa. - .-i  -.aa   ia-is                 Aa-ni  st -i   ii.a  an--  t.Sii" -M  t-ana  nat.l-ai -a-ld
na anis-  a-au.a-a- - ap-a~a  is-asni  - -ia-a a'uaa)-aaC-.s-napmea    'lgs  '-i  LIcna
n- da a-lant -._  sas-a          a- -andf-sisl  siaa innnlA    an It-a i                                                                * 
T a-     aa1Saan s-  a- -s-d" ~a  -_d ii a- LiiaP nia.-  _ %-na11-a s-a%I-n  aik  ain  tn-. 
Lspa-a  aana  -    wS   - atas  n aa-  aaaa- I-an  apad- ina5-        -%                                              ai - fun _    -it-   ia-itdaid
a-ia-Su-a pa.- M  ana-l~a~   -A un-  2a-   las.q-t                                     II jI  AII-.ia           -au--a . ana-ls  ta WiiLian
at-I P~b nnua,a as-t-i  1pi-  lina   t.nn Laad                                   .as-.apanz                 si-n .naid n  -p-anti-a  -za   nlla
A.T-dadd p- I",dII p-  T-Id."                                aunatn--  -i aaannCc  dna--ta --4 
Ta-ada  a-azsn- u - ILaaaaa  ia    tin   nta-aI                                         nn      aii       detnns   aLasa  n-a  -ainanUhl      Manta..
Aq I.;.-s    p5Cti.n-ta-a?  -al    Sia-a-  ani d                                              llfls  i-    I.itd       aa
ann  San   an.na  -c -s- t a-a - a-1  tI~ I-  plq-  iar adaa-                        --i  a-uCt  -a   5In5It                                          mu tniaiaedlIcd nan
- d-       :-a'z :na T,ai  1-   laa-S  i-                         aiia   nAitsa   a-a   n    -Si   taad    --
ni P1-n-Sa-n-a-ni-ata  i.apnna-ae--  aap-fe   -p-    na-a..d-didCi- --ian- t.I P-SIai.
p-  dW 2-  IdIa.       a- --. dIt.             n  M- AT           ndalaadt anta a a-it. iStad        - Is. -Trnat-izm -dc   a-n-i
~~SiaaW  -i5 n5    laa d sSit v-a --P-naain   a -daas                           at.)annacanlta  l d-  in -I a-p-a-a-a. m- -ns   scI-Te   ;.I
naal            l-    ama  an   Insais-   va-l4wad                                                                nilawa.         -t-la
I-az an 'anadan aa-.s)idii - Pz 'pta---i        .-v           ;   zdId-d   PU.dd ni-at---n maan-na- ns                                       sn   a
andi   d- -   Aa-nasaInn ft_., d-    4- . .- --- An pas- itataatIa  naiaa  nfs-tcaa   an~ naan ta   In-a-- va-caad  -a.a                                   ad
pip-snI La; i.asa  -ivan-z .a-ninnana-n--alaila        inct  - Sq                                                            -a-  a-I a  nicaIm     gcn.i
ma-n  in -.ns  t.lnaa   i tnud              -as..ai     d anllf"ililrasa              -ama-SiI-it j   cd     -  P    a- p-la   ataa--i`zet o P-nt-in
anlsinn  nitaaA a   n        asan  an InlaId -i a:mplaaa-                        '-uaz  sanat A-ti-I a   a-t-ai, mad An- - aiS) flC   i
-p-ma mniaan P  ~1-al a-aEn-i a_dac in v--ar It-aa  'a-na
tW-5    tPil      niiptn5t   da-a noi~  -ttsn.a                                                                                             -n   -    nat
71                                                          tz~~~~--anlt-Sticaq.  -a5-aa  nn-n-tSaa    naqa-taan                     i  -
ann-i-a~  n-i   -aa  iln  '-u-sn--it      oai  -sn-                   RaVm-a  a-diana-aap-nn   nicu-;  ia-      ~np



BEST COP-Y AVAILABLE
- 25-                   ~~~~Page 4 of 5
ECOIOMIC INDICATORS
G10SS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982                                  ANUM.L NATE OF GROWTICS, Constant PrIces)
US$ NIn. /if   S             1975-80                 1981 /21            1982 /1/
GNP aet arkct Prices            7t1,402      100.0             3.5                  -5.1                -4.B
Gross Domestic Investment       18,330       25.7              1.2                    6.9               -1.4
Gross NatIonal Saving           10,419        14.6             1.2                  -46.5              -52.1
Current Account Balance         -7,341       -10.3
Exports of Goods,NFS            13,65T        19.1             5.5                 -39.8               -14.3
Imports of Goods ,IFS           18,743       26.2              6.3                   11.4               10.0
OUTPUT, LlBOR FORCE AID
PRODUCTIVrTY Il 1992
Value Added /lI              Labor Force 131            V.A. PER Volrker
05U$ Il.       S                HiQ.        S                Us A         S
Agriculture                     16,038        22.4            19.6         59.t              878        40.2
Ibdustry & Mining               27,627       38.5              6.2         18.9             4,320      197.5
Services                        2S,086       39.1              7.0         21.3             4,012      183.4
Total/Average               71,T51       100.0            32.8        100.0             2,188      100.0
GOVERNENMT FINANCE
General Government                              Central Goverment
Cs Iln.)      S of GDP                          Cs Qin.)      S of GDP
1952 1.1  1982 1.1  19T9-81 141                 1982 /if  1982 /li 1979-81 14/
Cmrrent Receipts                13,352    27.2         37.2                       7.341     16.0        21.5
Ctrrent Expenditure              9,265     18.9        17.9                       4,86       9.9        10.2
Current Surplus                  4,087      8.3        19.3                       2,4T5      6.1        11.3
Capital Expenditure              8,785    IT.9         19.1                       T,173     14.6         15.5
External AssistanCefnet)           -          -           -                        264      0.5          0.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                      1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981     1982
(Mlllon ff Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                        5.T32    7,439   T7873    8,409   12,133   14,14T   15,409
Bank Credit to Public SectorCnet)              551    2,309    3,779    2,675       1,943     6,112    10,061
Bank Credit to Private SCctor '             2,423     3,465     4,605     4,673     6,508     8,569    10.086
w  '                           CPercentages or Index lumbers)
loney & Quasi Money as S of GDP               20.T     22.9      23.1      20.8      25.7      29.8      31.4
General Price Indez(19T5=100)                123.9    143.0    166.7    186.3    204.9    247.5    266.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                          21.7      15.4      16.6      11.8      10.0     20.8       7.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     _    319.1      63.T    -29.2    -27.4    214.6        64.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 34.8     43.0      32.9       1.5      39.3      31.T     1T.7
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during period
covered.
/1I Staff estimates. 121 Offlcial estimates. I4/ Provisional.
/3/ The data i3 derived from planning documents and refers to the nueber of 'gainfully employed'.
Sa !ot AvaWlabli
Spl nber , 193



- 25 -
lag S of 5
TRADE PATNENIS AMD CAPITAL FLOMS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                -                                       NERCIIDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1980-1982) /4/
1980 Xtf. 1981 /2/  1982 /3                                USS KlnU.        S
CRllions US 8)
Export3 of Goods,NFS                27,006    18.511    13,657             Crude 011               18,288       96.9
3:por,.s or Goods.FS                17,64T    21,839    185T43             Cocor Products             262        1.4
-              -Palm ?roducts                                      23   0.1
Resrurce Cap(Defncit = -)            9,359    -3.328    -5.086             Tin                          1E       0.1
Other Ca_  Lties           280        1.5
Interest Payments (net)              -1213       -653      _426                                       -
Oth.tr Factor Payments (net)        -3,259    .1,494    -1.056                        Total        16.5T1      100.0
Net Transfers                         _576       D563 -373
-  -                     ~~~~~~~EXTERJIAL DEST, DIDEBE  311, 19oZ I5S
Balance on Cur-ent Account            4,311    -6.042    -T7341
Direct Foreign Investment             -739        165       358                                              aSS Qm.
Net Ofricial HLT Borrowing              651       811       758            Public Debt, lmc. Undisbursed   14,697
Disbursement                       1,138      1.416     1,246            Eom-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                        -48T       -604      -490
Total Outstanding & Dlsbursed      6.085
atber Capital Cnetl                     134       409        496
Errors and Omission                     189     -1543      -570
Change in Reserves                                                         DEBT SEMVCCE RlTI  For 1982 /61
increase C.)                       4,545    -6.200    -.2,248
__ __ __ ____ ____                                                                                      S
Payment Arrears                          -          -       4051
Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed        9_T
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                                                                  Total Outstanding 4 Dtlbursed
or uhLch: Petroleum                402        480       450
Exports
of which: Petroleum             24,942    17.172    12,751             I=DDA LENDNG CJUNE 30, IMXR1llioms 8)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
- -                                                                                 D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13  IDA (3
1977: 11.00 = USS1.55
19T8: 31.00 = USS1357                                                      Outstanding & Disbursed            756.5       3.9
1979: 31.00 - USS1.66                                                      Undisbursed                      4$_9B.1IV,    -
1980: 1100 = U5S1183
1981: *1100 = USS1.63                                                      ObtstndiS lenl  Undisbursed   1,S4-6          31.9
1982: 11.00 = US$1.49
III Provisional. /2/ Otrficlal estimates. /31 Staff *tUmates.
14/ Official estimates for 1980 and 1981.
I5V Excluding short-term loanS.
/6/ Ratio or 5LT .7ebt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
171 Inctudinc a toan signed but not yet effective.
IS1 Prior to escbange rate adiustment.
Not AvaiLabte
September 8, 1933



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 27 -                               a- t
VWs &TAMU OF EaN mo  opATus
6 srrNE    ov r SAMi mIr IF  TOS i CKA 11
tj et Sptebetr 30, 1953)
or                                                              (toSS comeiat-
beAU                                                        __.t Clea eauceeura)
by?  _n  naeed men eteje   wl diitend                   6 1J3.7    33.
10*5c See mslq                                              20.0                  0.
lot      17         iaI       Uwn,wck                       21.0                  1.0
1103     1915      Kigetie    Rtc~ DewIenm.ut                17.5                 2.0
1133     1975      NIgeria    W.V. Sce  OIL Wer              13.0                 0.2
1191     196       migeri     S.c. Scaa Ol Palo              19.0                11.2
14          7         e. NV. mis27.0                                              1.0
1&SS     1977      Nigeria    Agrie. 1ec. Aynngbn           35.0                  0.3
1 19     figeia    D.c. S_c. s0aouer oil           30.0                 64
1397     1976      NM               tiL Daiunant            60.0                 V.3
1667     1979      nigerIa    Ap. DM. 3"           ,        2.0                   7.0
1*666    13.79     Sg1f In      Lc. NV. Tori                2U.0                 18.0
167)     1979      Wigar"n    Forestry                      31.0                 11.2
1711?   1"          ei er           S2.0                                         7.0
1719     197       Nigeri     egic.. 4 Nanta bee. lant.      9.0                 7.0
1t7      20                     an    a100.0                                      20
1S7      1960      NibeIa     Dna Nwe nt - _aed             17.8                 1.7
16       1930       igea    4grLc. Dew. - Oje-Voi           2.0                    1
1355     3930      Nigeria   ~ric. Mew. - lia-Abck.         32.5                23.3
13       190  _       Ia                                   10.0                  6I.3
161      16        NEIU       ldc.    . -                                        ".3
193US1Z31          NigerIa     Ai.      .    a             142.0                11.0
1961ss        NignCla    Dc.M1ac-xc                    47.0                 39.0
rm  it        tuft        Uch. Amatem  n.oIC
2035     1932       igerIa       e  Spply -   mbua          P.o                  62.4
23       112         UA       line - CDLtribution           100.0                "9
216S     12        Uigeri     Aertc. De. - SOkot.          147.0                162.7
229          1       3       I       b X irtel D-4e1geet   t    20.0                120.0
2345    3565      NgerIa    lzrtiLim  Ingot               250.0                23.
D.eul                                          2,337.5      35.3   1.2
CC w_in nn b rm                                   255.0      3.6
Awunt wowL                        16.5
Ofr uStk boa bees r4apei         15                  .
!a?al em be" ' T a      Ia A21                   03.        31.7
al  i ta                                                             1294.3
(eA Of Septgnhe 30. 193)
165. 1967.       6g    etIa  s                    eel  Wg.   1.0          0.5     1.S
190
1965             NigerIa ladunulaa               by. nI_. Co.             1.5      1.4
Nwve1ownt Nsen Ltd.
173              7       In cottonmeed            Tog. an        1.6
bunking Ltd.
ign       i         _ 1.00. 
X~~~~~~~~~~arno 28.                                         ,    caan
1V7              1121g.sa                           ge                    0.1      0.1
1960            -3                                               6J .S
1"   js Xczl                         1~~~~~~~~TSd_    .S     1.       6.9
1962  Dn.ja Nate!                 Maria.        ~~~~    ~~~7.5  1.6-  9-3
ot  0C  C*"     ttCed .                        17.3      4.9    22.2
Ane CNCOellaClOe                              1.5      0.1      16
lae  mold -d  tpad                            2.6      1.5     41
Total ~t_tuc snoaw ld by lJC                   13.2      3.3    15.3
*ibra                                            .       1.6     3.4
ett jotfctiw
TM       geSten  of tirm proectn ote"I to n PtA An  detad Is a m    t      ort e al U*ID
etueed projects In  emi-tiu , uhleb 1 1q4erdate6 rel  yearly  e  cl_culated  to tim  UscutIva
llctder em 'eepr   30 n-d  Octrat 31.
3, ftlor  to     kae rwte - djmtmute.



BEST COPY fAti511Lt
ANNEX IIr
- 28 -                        Page 1 of 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Project
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 3 years
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:  Federal Ministry of
Industries and Nigerian Rank for Commerce and Industry, assisted by
Bank staff
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: January 1978
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project:  July 1978
(e) Date of departure of the appraisal mission: February 20, 1981
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: October 20, 1983
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: April 15, 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Approval of advance of US$286,500 under PPF for early recruitment of
experts required by both NBCI and !NI.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and NBCI
(Condition of Effectiveness; para. 54);
(b) Approval by NBCI's Board of the policy statement (Condition of
Effectiveness; para. 35);
(c) Earmarking of at least 30 percent of line of credit for SEEs with
total assets not exceeding 1300,000 or with costs per job of less
than 17,500 (para. 46); and
(d) Setting of final lending rate to SEE borrowers of at least 12 percent
in addition to a one-time front-end fee of 1.5 percent on the total
amount of the loan, and annual review of these charges by NBCI,
Government, and BRnk (para. 47).



1~~    E R          ,<A
,~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ K 
,-j~~~~~~~-
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                   N
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I _                   J' -'
NEIGER___ tN,
N.-. ~ ~ ~ ~ f
0 
A               \ Ca -F
Do.go.
k..3
A AK
-W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.~ (..
IGR A    AdoEkhA Nk...Ek
OCEAN'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ E     



IBRD 127SU6I
1  r        io                               12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~SEPEMBEE Iva
J                        N I GER                                                                                    C
Kay °'   -                                                                e        1                                       S 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Op                                             o, '     5a .O  t     .0/
N, ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     *,
_ 0s A N 0'b
($    ng/    /-3 -i tr WTrunI                                                                               R                     a         
N   1/0~~~~~~~~~~1
tt~~~~~~~o                                        pw/g:  CDUGUR ON_ -In                              " 
P            A                             C                                                                                    X--CA M ER -
,J I t      °         o 1D10
I MAKUt                                                  ,                     t                    ^15            '            X
u GbF                                     §s.   _
A'  Abo.a~~~~.                                        ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIOS
E3 Etistung Trunkc Roads 'AA
Rivers
National Capitol
v        CARR            ON-                                                 Staie Bounclaries
International BoundaOriesi
U                     ~~~~~~~KILOMETEIS
100   ISO00
MILES
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 



