Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmaCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11482
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2376-UNI)
DECEMBER 22, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Naira (N)
1983 US$1      =  Naira 0.71
1986 US$1      =  Naira 1.75
1987 US$1      =  Naira 4.02
1988 US$1      =  Naira 4.54
1989 US$1      =  Naira 7.37
1990 US$1      =  Naira 8.04
1991 US$1      =  Naira 9.44
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB   -  African Development Bank
CBN    -  Central Bank of Nigeria
DFI    -  Development Finance Institution
FEM    -  Foreign Exchange Market
FGN    -  Federal Government of Nigeria
FMI    -  Federal Ministry of Industry and Technology
IDBI   -  Industrial Development Bank of India
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
ICC     -  Industrial Credit Corporation of Ireland
IDC     -  Industrial Development Center
ILO     -  International Labour Organization
IRR     -  Internal Rate of Return
NBCI   -  Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry
NDIC   -  Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation
NIDB   -  Nigerian Industrial Development Bank
PPF    -  Project Preparation Facility
SAP    -  Structural Adjustment Program
SFEM   -  Second-tier Foreign Exchange Market
SME    -  Small and Medium Enterprise
SSIC    -  Small-Scale Industry Scheme
SSID    -  Small-Scale Industries Division
UNIDO  -  United Nations Industrial Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR
Government   January 1 - December 31
NBCI          January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W"hington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Offico of Dirntor-G.n*ral
Operaions Evaluation
December 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Federal Republic of Nigeria -
Small and Medium Scale Industry Project (Loan 2376-UNI)
Attached is a copy of the report endtled 'Project Completion Report on Federal Republic of
Nigeria - SmaLl and Medium Scale Industry Project (Loan 2376-UNI)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office, with Part II contributed by the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry.
The project objectives (institution building of the Nigerian Bank of Commerce and Industry -
NBCI, support for SMI development, training) remained largely unfulfilled. More than 90% of NBCI's
loans are non-performing. Throughout the 1980s, NBCI has been plagued by institutional, operational and
portfolio problems, and a management audit concluded that NBCI is insolvent. More than one-third of the
US$41 million loan was cancelled. The overaLl performance of the project is rated as unsatisfactory.
The PCR is comprehensive in its coverage of the reasons for the poor operational results.
However, it understates the deficiencies of Bank performance throughout the project cycle.
The project will be audited in conjunction with other financial sector operations, forming a
cluster. As NBCI is currently being reorganized, the audit will look into a number of issues impacting on
the sustainability of the reorganization effort.
Attachment
lbis document bas a rericted ditrnbution and may be used by recipiea only in the performance of their official dutiea. Us contuts
may not otherwi, be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBIC OF NIGERIA
SMALL AND MEDIM  SCALE INDUSTRY PROJC
(LOAN 2376-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE   .....................................................                                                          i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ............                                ..............................    iii
PART I: PROJECT REVYEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTVE ................   1
1. Project Identity . .............................................  1
2. Background ................................................  1
3.  Project Objectives, Description, Design and Organization  ...................                                  2
4.  Project Implementation   ........................................                                              4
5. Project Results . .............................................  5
6.   NBCI Operations  .              ...........................................                                   9
7. Project Sustainability .1..........................................   1
8. Bank Performance .                ...........................................  12
9.  Borrower Performance .........................................    12
10.  Findings and Lessons   .........................................    13
11.  Project Documentation and Data ...................................    14
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                                              .......  15
Project Implementation   ........................................    15
Measures to Improve Implementation ................................    16
Portfolio Arrears and Their Quality  .................................    16
Other Achievements  .. ...........................................    16
Points to Note in Future Lnding..................................  17
PART m:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ................................    18
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans  ........................................                                                 18
Table 2:  Project Timetable   ..........................................    19
Table 3:  Loan Disbursements .........................................    20
Table 4:  Project Costs and Fuiacing  ....................................    21
Table 5:  Status of Covenants  .........................................    22
Table 6:  Use of Bank Resources  .......................................    23
Table 7:  NCBI Principal and Interest Receipts Since 1985  .......................    24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
ANNEXES
1: Characteristics of Subprojects and Costs Approved Under Loan 2376-UNI  ....          ....    25
2:  Performance of Subprojects Fmanced Under Loan 2376-UNI .................    29
3: Sectoral Distribution of Subprojects Financed Under Loan 2376-UNI ....           ........    33
4:  Geographical Distribution of Subprojects Assisted Under Loan 2376-UNI ....         .....    34
5: Investment Cost Distribution of Subprojects Fmanced Under Loan 2376-UNI ....          ...    35
6: List of Cancelled Subprojects Under Loan 2376-UNI ......................    36
7: Age Analysis of NBCI Arrears as at June 30, 1990 .......................    40
8: Summary of NBCI Assets as at June 30, 1990 ..........................    41
9:  Analysis of NBCI Loan Portfolio as at June 30, 1990  .....................    42
10: NBCI's Principal Sources of Gross Income .43
11: NBCI: Profit and Loss Account ..................................                             44
12: NBCI: Balance Sheet.                                                                         45



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2376-UNI)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Small and Medium Scale Industry Project
in Nigeria, for which Loan 2376-UNI was approved in the amount of US$41 million equivalent. The
Loan was initially appraised in March 1981; it was later appraised again in April and July 1983, and
approved by the Board on January 17, 1984. It was declared effective on June 29, 1984. The bulk of
the Part A and the entire Part C of the project were closed on June 30, 1991 and the remainder (mainly
Part B) was closed on December 31, 1991. Total disbursements amounted to US$26.4 million or 64%
of the loan amount.
This PCR has been prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division of the Western
Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and LI). It is based, inter aliA, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda;
information in the project files; and Borrower submissions. Part I of this PCR has been prepared by the
Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry.



I



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2376-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       Loan 2376-UNI was signed with the Federal Government of Nigeria (PGN) on February 16,
1984 for financing a Small and Medium Scale Industry project. The two major components of the project
were: (i) a line of credit (US$35 million) and technical assistance for the institutional strengthening of
the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry (US$1 million); and (ii) a training component for federal
and state level extension workers (US$4.3 million) and a small component to conduct studies (US$0.6
million). The Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI) was to execute the line of credit
component of the project, while Federal Ministy of Industries and Technology (FMI) was to administer
the training component.
Obiectives
2.       The basic project objectives were to develop a core of trained manpower and an institutional
structure capable of providing technical advice and credit to viable Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs)
in Nigeria. To meet these objectives, as stated above, the project intended to: (a) strengthen NBCI as
a financial intermediary and develop its capacity to provide technical advice and credit to SMEs; (b) train
federal and state extension workers to improve their effectiveness in the promotion, appraisal and
supervision of SMEs; and (c) conduct studies to identify potential areas for SME development and their
growth potential in order to properly plan and focus the eventual expansion of the program.
ImpUenentation Ew  igenc
3.       The project became effective on June 29, 1984, about five months after the Board approval
date of January 17, 1984. However, implementation of the project did not begin in earnest until the
twinimng partnership contract for technical assistance was finalized with the Industrial Development Bank
of India (IDBI) (Part I, para. 4.05). With the arrival of the IDBI advisors in January 1985,
implementation of the project started to gain momentum. The first subproject was approved in June 1985.
In the course of the following year commitments picked up substantially and project implementation was
well underway. By early 1986, more than half of the Loan amount was committed. Although the entire
line of credit was committed quite fast, later a vast number of subprojects were canceled. Despite the
fast pace of commitments, disbursements were very slow. Actual disbursements were much slower as
compared to esdmates made at appraisd (see Part HI, Table 3) and in fact over 35% of the loan remained
undisbursed at the Closing Date of the Loan.
4.       Due to the lack of prospects for NBCI to achieve the project objecdves, the Loan closed on
June 30, 19911' as had originally been planned in the project documents. The finl project results
' Except for some minor components which closed on December 31, 1991.



- iv -
indicate that as of April 30, 1992, only 64% (US$26.2 million) of the loan amount had been disbursed.
The reasons for slow disbursements and such substantial variances between the actual and planned results
are reviewed in Part I, paras. 4.02-4.04 which include, inter alia, downturn in economic conditions in
the country and, NBCI's very weak institutional structure.
5.       The institutional and operational inadequacies of NBCI escalated to such a point that FGN
decided to launch an administrative enquiry and a management audit of NBCI in 1989. The fundamental
conclusion of the enquiry report was that NBCI was insolvent and that there had been gross
mismanagement of the bank's resources by the management and staff of NBCI. Following the
administrative inquiry, most of the NBCI management and key staff were fired.  On Bank's
recommendation, NBCI's new management agreed in 1990 to conduct a comprehensive review of NBCI's
organization and operations, with a view to a possible restructuring of NBCI (Part I, para. 4.07).
6.       Implementation of the other components of the project including training for industrial
extension workers and assistance to Industrial Development Centers (IDCs) progressed very slowly.
Nearly all Bank supervision missions pointed to the inadequate acdvities under the training component,
and despite flagging this in all Bank's follow-up correspondence, results remained far from satisfactory.
Lack of proper equipment was identified as a serious constraint to the delivery of extension services by
the IDCs. It was, therefore, agreed to reallocate approximately US$1.6 million from the training
component to the purchase of training equipment for the IDCs (Part I, para. 4.08).
R;esulb
7.       NBCI and FMI performance under the loan was unsatisfactory, and most of the project
objectives remained by and large unfulfilled. Only 64% of the Loan amount was disbursed. No lasdng
gains were obtained from the technical assistance provided to NBCI by the twinning partner (IDBI). In
fact NBCI's institutional and financial position worsened during the project implementation period. Only
towards the end of the project on Bank's insistence a comprehensive study of NBCI was undertaken by
Industrial Credit Corporation of Ireland with a possible view to restructuring the bank (Part I, paras. 4.07
and 5.05).
8.       At the time of appraisal it was envisaged that US$35.0 million would be needed for loans to
subprojects. The actual figures indicate that only US$18.6 million or 53% of the line of credit was
disbursed. The loan financed a total of 111 subprojects as detailed in Part III, Annexes 1 to 3. All
subproject sponsors were Nigerian nationals. The subprojects covered a wide spectrum of industries with
over 50% in agro-allied and manufacturing sectors. Project records show that a vast number of
subprojects (149) were canceled at various times during implementation, which was a reflection of weak
project preparation and appraisal. The average cost of each subproject under the loan was N 1.6 million
consistent with the project objectives of assistance to small enterprises. Although foreign exchange risk
under the project was assumed by the Government, the continued devaluation of the naira increased the
cost of imports manifold resulting in large project cost overruns.
9.       One of NBCI's major problems has been the mounting interest and principal arrears of its
loans. All through project implementation period the arrears problem plagued NBCI's operations. As
of December 31, 1991 out of 111 Bank financed subprojects only seven were current in debt servicing.
The remaining 104 or 94% were in arrears for up to four or more years (Part I, para. 5.14). About 90%
of NBCI's portfolio is currently non-performing. As a result NBCI is facing pressing liquidity problems
and is technically insolvent. The losses incurred in 1989 and 1990, combined with the high level of non-
performing loans, have led to current liabilides far out-stripping available short-term liquid resources.
NBCI's continued existence is entirely dependent on the on-going support of its shareholders (FGN and
Central Bank of Nigeria).



- v -
10.      For two years Industrial Development Bank of India provided institutional assistance to NBCI.
Some short term gains were achieved initially but because of the short tenure of the program the gains
could not be consolidated in a manner which could have had a more lasting impact on the systems and
procedures of the bank.
11.      The other major component of the project i.e. training of industrial extension workers also
achieved insignificant results. About 50 staff of the Small Scale Industries Division (SSID) of FMI and
IDCs received overseas training. However, few workshops in the country were organized in which the
trained staff disseminated the knowledge gained (in the area of Work for Yourself) to the local
entrepreneurs. A few training sessions that were held were conducted primarily by consultants (Part I,
para. 5.15).
Findines and Lessons Learned
12.      The objectives of the Loan were only partly met. The performance of NBCI and FMI was
unsatisfactory. Nigeria went through a series of economic difficulties during the period of implementation
of the project under review including a major currency devaluation which took place in September 1986.
This severally affected NBCI's clients, which in turn had a very serious negative impact on the
performance of NBCI. Had NBCI been institutionally strong with a reasonable financial base, it would
have had the ability to withstand the rather difficult economic conditions that the country was going
through. Unfortunately, since NBCI's institutional and financial structure were very weak, it was unable
to cope with the fast changing economic environment in the country, including the establishment of a
more open and competitive financial market. Lessons drawn from this loan are not new and most of these
have been seen in the context of other DFI-related operations. First, institution building is a very slow
process, and it is not possible to build an institution without (i) its management having adequate
autonomy; and (ii) its management having a dedicated commitment to a program of staff training on a
continuous basis (Part I, para. 10.03). Second, lack of discipline in following sound banking practices
adversely affects institutional effectiveness and institution building as much in the case of development
institutions (such as NBCI) as it does in the case of merchant and commercial banks (Part I, para. 10.04).
Third, NBCI's experience emphasizes the need for more thorough sensitivity analyses of subprojects to
take fuller account of the impact of changing economic situations (Part I, para. 10.05). Fourth, without
an adequate legal framework it becomes very difficult for a DFI to foreclose loans wherever it becomes
necessary, and as a result non-performing loans continue to remain in portfolios much longer than prudent
management would allow (Part I, para. 10.06). Finally, in projects that have a line of credit component,
the Bank and the executing agency in their zeal for building the executing agency's developmental role
are not always able to maintain a better balance between the developmental (transfer of funds) objectives
and the institution building objective (Part I, para. 10.07).






PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBIC OF NIIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2376-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. friect Identit
Name:           Smali and Medium Scale Industry Project
Loan Number:   2376-UNI
Regional Unit:    Africa Region - Western Africa Department
Country:        Nigeria
Sector:         Industry
2.  Icgond
2.01     During the oil boom of the 1970s the FGN's objective was to translate huge oil revenues into
investments in social, economic and physical infrastructure. While there were some successes, gross
mismanagement and corrupdion led to considerable waste. The economic policies pursued also introduced
distordons that encouraged imports, discriminated against local production, and produced an import
intensive and capital intensive industrial structure that was unsustainable. Starting mid-1981 as the oil
market weakened, the FGN responded slowly and by 1983 sizable fiscal and external deficits emerged
which were financed by the declining international reserves and large public sector borrowings. Finally
recognizing that the situation was unsustainable, the FGN implemented stabilization measures that
included slackening of public expenditure and tighter import controls. The severe import compression
that followed led to low capacity utilization and widespread plant close-downs.
2.02     The Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) introduced in the fall of 1986 constituted a radical
break with previous economic policies. The basic features of SAP that affected the industrial sector were:
the introduction of the second-tier foreign exchange market (SFEM) and later merging of both tiers into
one FEM; reform of tariff and export policies; removal of all price controls to enable producers to
operate profitably in the new environment; liberalization of interest rates; and inidation of a program of
public sector reform including privadtzaion and commercialization of public sector enterprises.
2.03     The manufacturing sector, although only 10% of GDP, occupies a prominent role in the
country's development goals and plans. This sector is expected to play a critical role in the structural
transformadon of the economy through diversification of the producdve base, employment generation,
and exploitation of key natural resources. It is also expected to play a catalytic role in the development
of other sectors of the economy through backward linkages, skill formation and entrepreneurial
development.
2.04     Nigeria has a relatively well developed financial system with an extensive and growing
commercial banking network throughout the country. The Nigerian financial system has open entry under
rather liberal rules and regulations. Nigeria's financial system is one of the more complex ones in the
developing world. It currently comprises over 110 commercial and merchant banks, a few development
finance institutions, over 100 insurance companies, more than 800 pension funds, seven stock exchanges



- 2 -
and a number of other small specialized financial institutions serving inter alia small enterprises and rural
borrowers. Monetary policy is conducted by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) which also supervises
banks together with the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporadion (NDIC). Capital market institutions,
including the Securities and Exchange Commission which directly supervises the stock exchanges, are
ultimately regulated by the Ministries of Finance and Trade.
2.05     Although the level of commercial bank term-lending to manufacturing enterprises increased
significantly during the later part of 1970s and early 1980s, this situation reversed with the growing
domestic liquidity squeeze and foreign exchange shortage. Available data indicates that the manufacturing
sector may have received less than its share of credit over the period 1982-88. During this period
aggregate credit increased at an average annual rate of 15% compared to about 17% for the government
sector and about 12 for the manufacturing sector. The project under review was implemented mainly by
the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI) which is a development finance institution (DFI)
concentrating on financing small and medium-sized enterprises. The Nigerian Industrial Development
Bank (NIDB) is another DFI which is the primary source of term financing for predominately private
industrial projects in Nigeria; it has received four Bank loans, all of which are now closed. Another loan
(2995-UNI) for SMEs was granted to FGN in 1988 which is administered by the CBN and is currently
under implementation.
3. Proiect Obiectives. Description. Design and Organization
3.01     Proiect Obiectives: The basic objective of the project was to develop in Nigeria a core of
trained manpower and an institutional structure capable of providing technical advice and credit to viable
SMEs in Nigeria. To meet this objective the project intended to:
(i) strengthen NBCI as a financial intermediary and develop its capacity to lend to small and
medium scale enterprises;
(ii) train federal and state industrial extension workers to improve their effectiveness in the
promotion, appraisal and supervision of small and medium scale enterprises; and
(iii)  conduct further studies to identify potential areas for small scale enterprise development and
their growth potential in order to properly plan and focus the eventual expansion of the
program.
3.02     Project Description: The project for which a loan of US$41 million was made had two major
components: (a) a line of credit for SME financing and technical assistance for institutional strengthening
of NBCI and (b) a training component for federal and state level extension workers. In addidon the
project included a small amount of funds to finance further sector studies of the SMEs in Nigeria. From
the loan, a PPF advance of US$286,500 was refinanced which had been used for initial technical
assistance to NBCI and FMI. The project components are summarized below:
(i) A line of credit of US$35 million which was on-lent by FGN to NBCI for financing of sound
SMEs in the five pilot states1' and a comprehensive program of technical assistance to
strengthen NBCI's effectiveness in financial intermediation (US$1 million);
'  Subsequently on FGN's request the project scope was extended to include all States.



- 3 -
(ii) a component of US$4.3 million for F7MI to establish an effective training program for federal
officers, staff of Industrial Development Centers (IDCs) and state-level extension workers,
thereby developing a local capability for technical assistance to SMEs; and
(iii) a component of US$0.6 million for FMI to carry out studies on the development of SME
subsector, including the need for adjustments in the investment and export incentives and the
potential for subcontracting by small Nigerian contractors and building material producers.
3.03     In line with project objectives a comprehensive technical assistance program for NBCI was
proposed. An experienced banking institution from overseas was to act as a twinning partner, providing
insdtutional advisory services to NBCI. The technical assistance program was to cover a broad spectrum
of acdvides, including project promotion, appraisal and supervision, portfolio management, accoundng
and financial management, internal control and branch network management. In addidon to on-the-job
training, selected officers of NBCI were to benefit from overseas training under the same program.
3.04     To extend the impact of the Loan upon a wider spectrum, NBCI was to spread external funds
among as many sub-borrowers as possible. Subproject conditionalites called for sub-borrowers to be
100% Nigerian-owned enterprises whose total assets would not exceed NI million (corresponding to
US$1.5 million under November 1983 exchange rates). Other general eligibility criteria included: (a)
residency within one of the five pilot states;2' (b) ability of promoters to provide at least 20% of the
project cost as owner's equity; (c) maturities of subloans to range from 4 to 10 years including grace
periods of up to 2 to 4 years; (d) all subloans to be denominated in Naira, and the foreign exchange risk
to be assumed by the FGN; and (e) interest rate on subloans to be at least 12% per annum with a front
end fee of 1.5% and a commitment fee of 0.75%.
3.05     Proect Design: Two important considerations underlay the project design.  First, the
tremendous topographical diversity of Nigeria, reinforced by ethnic and language differences, necessitated
decentralization of an SME credit and technical assistance program to the local level. This in turn
required an effecdve outreach program for technical advice and credit, which could get to entrepreneurs
in their places of work. Second, in view of Nigeria's size, varied problems of SMEs, and human
resource constraints, it was decided to attempt to implement a national industrial extension and credit
program in one and the same project but was inidally to be limited in its geographic scope. As a first
phase, five states (Cross River, Imo, Niger, Ondo, and Plateau) were chosen by the Government as target
states for the industrial extension and credit program proposed under this project. Later experience with
project implementation indicated sizeable demand from other states and, therefore, the legal agreements
were subsequently amended to expand the project scope to include all states in Nigeria.
3.06     Orgnization:  NBCI was established by a Decree in April 1973, to promote and assist
indigenous enterprises in the areas of commerce and industry. Its activides have included equity
investments, loans, guarantees, underwritings and merchant banking services. The bulk of NBCI business
in its initial years of operation (up to early 1980s) was loan and equity financing of medium-sized
Nigerian enterprises. As its branch network increased and the funds from federal Small Scale Industry
Scheme (SSIC) began to flow through these state offices, NBCI increased the share of its lending to small
scale enterprises. At the time of appraisal, NBCI's authorized and paid-in capital was N50 million: 60%
subscribed by the FGN and 40% by CBN. Its share capital was increased to N200 million on August 23,
1984. The additional capital was funded in cash by CBN and by conversion of NBCI's debt to FGN as
the latter's contribution.
2  Once the project scope was extended to include all states, this provision was also altered to include
residents of all states.



3.07     Since early 1980s, as well recognized at the time of appraisal, NBCI was plagued with
institutional, operational and portfolio problems. A major objective of the project was to assist NBCI in
its efforts to strengthen its institutional, operational and financial systems. The intention was to build
NBCI into an effective DFI specializing assistance to small SMEs thus complementing NIDB which
concentrates on larger industrial projects. In 1983, NBCI's pipeline of more than 250 projects in various
stages of processing, was seen as a sign of strength and bright operational outlook. These projects were
expected to require external funds assistance of about N200 million (US$300 million at the prevailing
exchange rates) over the next two to four years. This expectation did not materialize. As discussed in
section 5, NBCI has had serious portfolio problems with a very high proportion of non-performing
projects.
4. Project Implenentation
4.01     Loan Effectiveness and Prolect Start-un: The Project became effective on June 29, 1984,
about five months after the Board approval date of January 17, 1984. The start of implementation was
delayed by a year as it took a long time to finalize the IDBI twinning contract for technical assistance
(para. 3.03). With the arrival of the IDBI advisors in January 1985, implementation of the NBCI
component of the project started to gain momentum. Guideines on the project were prepared and issued
to the NBCI branches and the first subproject was submitted to and approved by the Bank in June 1985
(about one and half years after the Board approval date). In the following year subproject commitments
picked up substantially and project implementation was well underway. Over 50% of commitments under
the Bank's line of credit were made in the first year of implementation. Unfortunately many of these
inidal commitments had to be cancelled later indicating poor project preparation and appraisal.
4.02     The actual disbursements under the project were significantly slower than Bank's appraisal
estimates (see Part HI, table 3). As at the end of the project only 64% (US$26.2 million) of the loan
amount had been disbursed. Due to lack of prospects for NBCI to achieve the project objectives, and
based on a mutual agreement between the FGN and the Bank, the loan closed on June 30, 1991. (Only
for a few limited purposes, the closing date was extended to December 31, 1991.)
4.03     The slower than esdmated commitment and disbursement rates under the line of credit
component of the project were attributable to a combination of factors, including: (a) general down-turn
in economic activities in Nigeria which affected the level of NBCI's operations; (b) NBCI's institutional
problems affectng its subproject processing capabilities; (c) general slow project implementation pace in
Nigeria which had a bearing on the rate of disbursement under the project; and (d) poor subproject
preparation and inadequate equity contribudon from the sponsors, which coupled with Naira devaluation
in 1986, led to massive cancellations or non-implementation of the sub-projects.
4.04     While variances between planned and actual implementation stemming from the deteriorating
economic situation were harder to avoid, those resulting from NBCI's insdtudonal weaknesses could have
been avoided to a large extent. The appraisal report had correctly identified project risks of: (a)
suscepdbility to delays in putdng in place the delivery structure for project objectives; (b) personnel and
administrative constraints which could hinder smooth implementation; and (c) some past NBCI loans made
on grounds other than project merits which would have a bearing on the portfolio quality of NBCI. What
was not adequately foreseen was the inability of NBCI's appraisal staff (even after receiving training
under the project) to carry out adequate in-depth appraisal/reappraisal of the sub-projects within the
context of rather difficult economic situation in the country. NBCI staff quite often failed to assess the
ability of subproject sponsors to invest their share of the subproject costs or to have adequate condngency
plans for raising resources to meet cost overruns resulting from slow project implementation, Naira
devaluation, and general inflation.



4.05     To meet the project objective of strngd_t   NBCI a a finanl nrmediary and to develop
its capacity to lend to SMEs, the project provided about 96 man-months of resources for a technical
assistance program. As a result, a twinning arrangement was set up between NBCI and IDBI in early
1985. The original program was for a period of two yean. A one year extension for an advisor was
given thereafter. Institutional assistance to NBCI was provided across a broad and diverse spectrum of
NBCI's operations and activities including project appraisal, aservision, treasury operations, financial
management, accounting, personnel policies and legal documentation.
4.06     Despite the technical assisance program, the institutional and operational inadequacies of
NBCI had escalated to such a point by 1989 that the FON launched an administrative enquiry and a
management audit of NBCI. The enquiry concluded that NBCI was insolvent, and that there had been
gross mismanagement of NBCI's resources. Following the submission of the report most of the NBCI
management and key staff were removed from their positions. A new Managing director was appointed
soon thereafter.
4.07     With the new management in place, the Bank e  nd  that tD assess the insdtudonal and
portfolio damages and to review NBCI's current state of affairs with a possible view to its restructuring,
a comprehensive review of NBCI's orpnizadon and operations should take place. Industrial Credit
Corporation of Ireland (ICC) was selected by NBCI In 1990 to conduct the study. The essential
conclusion of the study which was accepted by NBCI's new management and the FGN, was to confirm
that NBCI was insolvent and that more than 90% of its loa  disbursed prior to 1989 were in non-
performing status. Based on this report, the Government is currently contemplatng full restructuring of
NBCI.
4.08     Implementation of the other components of the project including training for industrial
extension workers and assistance to IDCs progrssed very slowly. Lack of proper equipment was
identified as a serious constraint to the delivery of extension services by the IDCs. It was, therefore,
agreed to reallocate approximately US$1.6 million from the training component to the purchase of training
equipment for four zonal IDCs. On recognizing that FMI lacked experdse in procurement procedures,
it was agreed to obtain the services of UNIDO for purchase of the IDC equipment. Most of the
equipment was acquired by the closing date of the loan.
4.09     Procument: Procurement of equipment and goods under the line of credit component was
not found to be suitable for ICB given the relatively small size of investments to be financed. Therefore,
the recommended course of action, which was followed, was for sponsors to obtain at least three
quotations from three suppliers.
5. f    Reu
5.01     Proiect Obiectives: Generally speaking, NBCI and FMI performance under the loan fell far
short of what can be described as satisfactory. The project objectives were, therefore, only partly met.
Most of NBCI's subprojects have had substantia cost overruns and delays in project completion. NBCI
is technically insolvent and is funcdoning on Government support. Its organizatonal and financial
restructuring is still under Government consideration. Training and studies components under FMI
implementation have also fallen far short of the set objecives.
5.02     The Line of Credit component financed a total of 111 subprojects as detailed in Annexes 1.
2 and 3. All of the subprojects' sponsors were Nigerian nadonals as required under the Loan condidons.
The subprojects covered a wide spectrum of Industries. More than 50% of dte NBCI assistance (64
subprojects) fell into agro-llied and m ctin sctors receiving about 62% of the loan financing.



- 6 -
The balance of the loan financed subprojects in a variety of other sectors ranging from chemical to fishing
and food processing. The loan also covered a wide spectrum of geographical locations (para. 5.06).
5.03      NBCI Capacity Buildinf: As mentioned earlier IDBI provided institutional assistance to
NBCI for over two years. While IDBI's presence inidally made some positive impact on the operations,
the twinning arrangement by and large failed to upgrade NBCI's institutdonal and technical capabilities.
Consolidation from earlier gains might have taken place had the program been extended further for
another term. The ICC Report indicated that the short-term gains obtained from technical assistance had
been more or less lost with in a few years.
5.04     Following the Government-instituted administrative enquiry into the affairs of NBCI, the top
management of NBCI was changed. The Government appointed a new Board with several members from
the private sector including the banking sector in 1989. A new Managing Director was also appointed
at the same time. In some areas the new management has been somewhat effective, particularly in
intensifying efforts towards interest and loan collections and achieving limited collections targets.
However, it would require a sustained effort over a longer period, together with organizadonal and
financial restructuring, for NBCI to make a turn around and to function more effectively as a DFI.
5.05     ICC consultants in their report had pointed out that the poor operational results of NBCI
resulted from (a) lack of pracdcal experience of NBCI staff in key areas of appraisal such as assessment
of the technical and managerial ability of sponsors, their loan repayment abilides, the gearing of a
subproject and the likely realizable value of the proposed security in a forced sale situation; (b) gross
inadequacy in the reporting system on activities within the appraisal and supervision departments;
(c) interest calculation done manually and as a result was both time consuming and error prone; (d) no
interest was charged on interest arrears and no interest surcharge was levied on principal arrears; (e) the
emphasis on approval/ disbursement of funds with little attention given to their ultimate recovery; (f)
frequent over-isbursement in Naira terms compared to the originally approved limit to the sub-borrowers;
(g) no systematic procedure for determining loan loss provisions; and (h) staff remuneration levels in
NBCI were considerably lower than those pertaining in other financial institutions in Nigeria. The
consultants further pointed out that unless concerted effort was made in improving in all these areas of
deficiency, even a restructured NBCI will not be in a position to function effectively over a sustained
period of time.
5.06      Geoeraphical Distribution  of NBCI Assistance:   Within the first year of project
implementatdon it was realized that the original scope of the project to include only five states had to be
expanded to include all states in Nigeria. The project scope was amended to reflect this. NBCI
succeeded well in obtaining broader geographical distribution of its assistance, in general, and under the
line of credit in particular. Subprojects in 18 states were financed under this line of credit (Annex 4!.
There were 63 subprojects (57%) in Anambra, Imo, Lagos and Ondo States. Fourteen other states
accounted for 48 subprojects (43%). This responded well to the Bank's long expressed concern over the
lack of geographical balance of subprojects in NBCI's portfolio (Annex 5 . NBCI needs to diversify
further and cover additional states (especially in light of the creation of more states in Nigeria) to attain
a full national profile.
5.07      NBCI's Development Role: NBCI has been one of the main FGN vehicles for the channelling
of development financing and related services to the SMEs. Because of the inherent risks associated with
lending to small scale enterprises, a higher than normal level of loan non-performance is to be expected.
However, the non-performance level of NBCI's portfolio is at an excessively high and unacceptable level
of about 90%. This level of non-performance cannot be solely attributable to the SMEs' financial
difficulties; it is equally due to serious deficiencies existing in the NBCI's management and operadons
systems.  Factors other than those listed in para. 5.05 that need urgent attention of NBCI's
management/FGN include: (a) excessive number of NBCI's branch offices which should be reduced; (b)



- 7 -
NBCI's involvement in promotional assets which cannot be justified on commercial grounds;I' and (c)
constraints imposed on NBCI to the interest margin that it may charge to sub-borrowers (interest income
of NBCI as a percentage of earning assets stood at 3.2% to 6.2% which is relatively low).
5.08     NBCI's Interest Rates and Fee Structure: The average interest rate charged by NBCI for
its Naira loans at the time of the appraisal was 12% per annum. The CBN guidelines required that
interest rates across sectors should be between 6-13% per annum. At these levels interest rates were
negative in real terms as the inflation was estimated at about 15%. Under the Bank's line of credit,
NBCI's rate for onlending to sub-borrowers was set at a minimum of 12% per annum. In addition, there
was to be a front-end fee of 1.5% and a commitment fee of 0.75%. Foreign exchange risk was assumed
by the FGN. The adequacy of NBCI's interest rate structure was to be reviewed annually by the FGN,
NBCI and the Bank. All through the project implementation period, NBCI was slow to adjust its interest
rates upwards in keeping with the changing market conditions. However, in 1987, NBCI adopted a
differential interest rate policy structured as follows: 12% per annum for graduates of Entrepreneurship
Development Program, 13% for small enterprises, 15% for other enterprises, and 17.5% for short-term
loans. These rates were still considerably below the market rates charged by commercial and merchant
banks which at the time ran at 19-22% per annum. The Bank recommended that NBCI charge market
based interest rates, and should start charging variable interest rates instead of fixed rates through the life
of the loan.
5.09     Effect of Devaluation: After a long period of almost constant exchange rates (1978 US$1 =
NO.65, 1983 US$1 = NO.71), a major devaluation took place as part of the Structural Adjustment
Program in September 1986 (US$1 = N4.12). The effect of this devaluation did not have any direct
impact on the finances of subproject sponsors since FGN had assumed the foreign exchange risk of the
Bank loan. However, indirectly it adversely affected the subprojects since cost of all imported goods rose
manifold and sub-project costs went up. These project cost escalation had several negative effects,
including delay in completion of projects, as the sponsors' had to identify and raise additional sources of
finance and thus reduced the sponsors' ability to service their loans resulting in mounting NBCI arrears.
NBCI's general operations were also negatively affected because it was exposed to foreign exchange risks
on some of its other external loans.
5.10     Subgroject Results: At the time of appraisal it was envisaged that US$35.0 million will be
needed for subprojects. The actual figures indicate that only US$18.6 million or 53% of the line of credit
has been disbursed. The loan financed a total of 111 subprojects (Annexes I and2. The esdmated total
cost of these subprojects at the time of appraisal was N 102.4 million as compared to the actual esimated
cost of N 176.7 million indicating an overrun of about 73%. NBCI at one point during implementation
had the entire line of credit committed for subprojects. However, the portfolio of Bank financed
subprojects were reviewed from time to time and those considered without implementation prospects were
canceled. As many as 149 subprojects were canceled during the life of the Bank loan which is a
reflecdon of weak project preparation and appraisal (Annex 6. The Bank financing accounted for about
77% of total estimated subprojects costs in Naira terms. The remaining 23% were provided either by
the sponsors or by NBCI. The actual average cost of subprojects financed through the Loan was N 1.6
million - although more than half of the subprojects cost less than N500,000. This was in line with the
project objectives which called for assistance to smaller enterprises (Annex 5).
v  In 1987 NBCI bought 20 mini flour mills as promotional assets of which only 6 have been sold so
far at below the cost prices.



- 8 -
5.11      Implementation Delays: Almost all subprojects faced implementation delays ranging from
eight months to about six years. Some of the subprojects are still under construcdon. The typical reasons
attributed to implementadon delays were: delays in obtaining import licenses for the plant and machinery;
promoters' inability to contribute their equity as and when required, and their inability to mobilize
resources to cover higher project costs resulting from inflation and devaluation; inability of contractors
to mobilize on time; delays in complying with legal formalities; and lack of working capital to procure
for material (Bank loan did not finance working capital) etc.
5.12      Capacity Utilization: The subprojects in operation are producing at levels ranging from about
5 to 45% of their capacities. The capacity utilization envisaged at the time of appraisal was 50-85%.
The actual data suggests that most of the subprojects are operating in the range of 10-30% of capacity
which, though unsatisfactory, is roughly consistent with the capacity utilization rate of most other
Nigerian-owned projects in the country. The main reasons for low capacity utilization are: industrial
credit squeeze; difficulties in obtaining import licenses for raw material; high cost of imported raw
material; and lack of availability of working capital financing from commercial banks.
5.13      Performance and Rates of Return: The ex-ante average economic rate of return (ERR)
based on NBCI's appraisal estimates was 22% ranging from a low of 13% (production of feed mill) to
a high of 29% (production of pharmaceuticals). Since adequate information has not been forthcoming
from the subprojects in operation, no ex-post ERR has been calculated. The ex-ante average internal rate
of return (IRR) was 32% ranging from a low of 12% (shoe and other leather products) to a high of 79%
(food processing). Again it was not possible to calculate ex-post IRR due to unavailability of data.
Annex 2 provides other performance data on subprojects.
5.14      SubDro_ect Arrears: NBCI has persistently suffered from gross subproject arrears. The debt
servicing record of the subprojects under the Loan 2376-UNI shows a similar trend. As of December
31, 1991, out of the 111 Bank financed subprojects only 7 were current. The remaining 104 subprojects
(94%) were in arrears of up to four or more years. The summary table below reflects the age analysis
of the subprojects arrears under the loan:
p~~~~~~ :::  ;;           - QE SWUpSgg=7-$:  
less:
Number dofs recSt,      7 T]             2      I 34i               11 i
Percent of total        6%    g30%  -29%         22%  10%     3         %
Under the project, the principal amount affected by arrears was N 133.7 million and the principal amount
in arrears was N50.8 million. The interest arrears amounted to N45.8 million. The principal and
interest arrears under the Bank project represented about 37% of NBCI's total portfolio arrears. The most
common reasons attributed for inability of sponsors to debt service on time include the very low capacity
udlization of the producdon facilities due to lack of funds for working capital, scarcity of raw material



-9 -
and spare parts for machinery and equipment. In many cases project implementation delays due to lack
of technical know how have also contributed to this.
5.15     The other major component of the project i.e., training of industrial extension workers also
achieved insignificant results. About 50 staff of SSID and IDCs received overseas training, but few
workshops were organized in which the trained staff designated the knowledge gained (in the area of
Work for Yourself) to the local entrepreneurs. Some training sessions that were held were conducted by
costly local consultants. Equipment for the IDCs was procured by the loan closing date and some
improvement in the operations of IDCs should take place as a result.
6. NBCI Oerations
6.01     An analysis of the NBCI loan portfolio indicates that as of June 30, 1991, there were 2,225
loans in its portfolio with a value of about N351 million (Annex 9). Just over a quarter of the portfolio
has been financed out of the World Bank line of credit.
6.02     Characteristics of Portfolio and Arrears: The condition of NBCI's portfolio (both under
the project and as a whole) has remained in very poor shape for the past several years. The general
economic difficulties (inflation and devaluation of Naira) affecting the country, together with NBCI's
institutional weakness in appraisal of subprojects and poor project execution capabilities of NBCI sub-
borrowers, has contributed to NBCI's poor portfolio performance. NBCI has, in recent years, increased
its efforts to collect arrears through offering bonus payments to its staff for achieving collections over the
predetermined targets. Despite some small successes, the age and size of arrears, both on principal and
on interest, continue to remain high.
6.03     Portfolio Arrears and Their Oualitv:   An analysis of NBCI loan portfolio (Annex 9!
indicates that of the aggregate gross principal and interest balances of N489.6 million, a total of N263.4
million (or 54%) were in arrears for six months or more. Aggregate principal overdue by six months
or more amounted to N144.1 million of which N85.5 million (or 59%) was overdue by 18 months or
more (Annex 7). The aggregate interest arrears as of June 30, 1990 amounted to N 119.3 million of
which N 75.6 million (or 63%) had been overdue by 18 months or more. Probability of collecting arrears
which are overdue for more than 18 months is in serious question. An analysis of NBCI's accounts as
of mid-1990 indicates that net loan balances represented about 59% of total assets (Annex 8 . This shows
that a substantial portion of NBCI assets are loans which have an extremely poor quality and are non-
performing.
6.04     On Bank's recommendations, NBCI's loan loss provisions have steadily grown from 5.0% of
the portfolio in 1983 to 30.0% in 1990. The table below summarizes the trend in the cumulative
provisions for the years 1983 to 1990. It also reflects a continuous growth in the level of provisions for
NBCI's equity investments. The substantial increase in provisions in 1989 and 1990 indicates a
recognition by NBCI's new  management that the portfolio had grave problems.   However,
notwithstanding this increase, the ICC report considers that the level of provisions is still substantially
lower than the true requirements. After a detailed analysis of the portfolio as of June 30, 1990, ICC had
suggested that a further provision of N 183 million or an additional 38 % of portfolio value was needed
as bad or doubtful debt provision. The proposed amount together with the existing figure would have
brought the total provisions to 67% of the portfolio value.



- 10-
Pz'ovl.ios Nm       9. 6   IZJ   14 4   s             ...........7.9  X3.7    3.4 .
P. :vi'i.  .                               2.3   2.9 --i  4    8.4    Si
! ril r . ,4   0.l.l..i Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
Total Invstment.  1.$.6 ~03.   2I~.7  27.6 l.~  .~ ......   4794 ...
.'''..M..."'' .''"''"":'"''' g"'"'''  '"''''''''""''"''""'"''"'"'"  "'<"""~~~~~~~........  ........
6.05      Flnancial Condition: A summary of NBCI's financial statements as well as kcey financial
ratios for the period 1985-1990 are provided in Annexes 11 and 12. Income from loans, which was a
major component of total income, grew in the accounts at a steady pace from 1985 to 1989 with a slight
drop in 1990. NBCI posted overall profits in its accounts from 1985-1988, followed by substantial losses
in 1989 and 1990 when sizeable provisions for loan losses were created. Bankc supervision missions
repeatedly pointed out in their aide-memoires and follow-up letters to NBCI that its accounting policies
in the area of interest accrual and provisions for non-performing loans were highly inadequate, and were
providing incorrect picture of NBCI's financial position. The net profits being shown in the financial
statements were fictitious and mis-leading since most of the interest income was not being received. (Only
about 10% of the loan interest included in the income for the period 1985-90 has been collected.) The
management finally began to pay heed to the accounting policies by the end of 1989.
6.06      Since 1988 NBCI has begun to shiow increased income from non-lending business, i.e.,
commissions from loan guarantees, drafting fees etc. This was indeed a posidive trend showing some
diversity in NBCI operations. Administrative expenses on the other hand grew substantially, due in part
to increases in the salary bills and other related costs.
6.07      Cash Flow Problemq: Internal resources have contributed little or no funds to the NBCI
operations since 1988, and it has not been able to meet its debt service obligations. The losses incurred
in 1989 and 1990, combined with the high level of non-performing loans, have led to current liabilities
far out-stripping available short-term liquid resources. NBCI faces pressing liquidity problems and as
stated earlier is technically insolvent. There has been a marked deterioration in NBCI's liquidity position:
cash and short term funds amounted to only 30% of its current liabilities as of mid-1990 as against a
figure of 86% in 1985. NBCI's continued existence is therefore, entirely dependent on the on-going
support of its shareholders (FGN and CBN).
6.08      An analysis of NBCI balance sheets (AnnexI2) indicates that its equity base has eroded
substantially since 1989. By 1990, NBCI's equity base was a negative N217.2 million. The reason for



- I1 -
this was the significant increase in the size of provisions for bad and doubtful debts made in the 1989 and
1990 accounts. Since 1986 the Current Ratio, has been less tban one and deteriorating: going down from
0.7 in 1986 to 0.4 in 1990. The Debt/Equiy ratio increased from 1985 (17%) to 1989 (73%) and then,
despite the debt level remaining the same, the ratio deteriorated sharply (3400%) due to negative equity.
All financial and operational ratios of NBCI indicate a continuing deteriorating position (Annexes 1
and II!
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.01     NBCI was established with a mandate to promote and assist SMEs in the areas of commerce
and industry. As a wholly owned Government institution, it received considerable support from it in the
form of equity and loans to enable it to carry out its role. During the early 1980s, NBCI received
assistance from a number of international and bilateral sources. NBCI managed to maintain a marginal
profitability until 1988; since 1989 as a result of increased provisions for loan losses it has been posting
large losses. It has been unable to improve its capabilides adequately in the areas of project appraisal,
supervision, loan collecdon, accounting and MIS. These institudonal weaknesses together with the
general economic down turn in the country have contributed to the accumulation of huge arrears of
principal and interest in NBCI's portfolio. Viability of NBCI as it stands today is highly doubtful. The
institution is insolvent and cannot meet its liabilities. Without Government's direct support it cannot
function.
7.02     However, since the commercial and merchant banks in Nigeria are reluctant to provide
medium and long-term finance, except to their well-established clients, a restructured NBCI under a well-
defined set of objectives could still play a significant role pardtularly in the financing of small and micro-
enterprises. NBCI could be provided an opportunity to establish for itself an important place in Nigeria's
financial market, through injection of further capital, cleaning up of the existing portfolio, strengthening
of its Board and management, and other appropriate staffing actions that are needed.
7.03     The Government has already taken two important steps indicating its desire to keep NBCI in
business and to give it a commercial orientation. Firstly, in May 1990, it reconstituted NBCI's Board
with a membership of 12, of whom several represent the private sector including the banking sector.
Secondly, the Government is considering to double NBCI's share capital. Another prerequisite to
recovery of NBCI would be for it to acquire a pool of competent and skilled staff. NBCI will have to
include in its immediate plans a comprehensive training program for its existing management and staff,
and a recruitment program to selectively hire competent candidates for key unfilled positions.
7.04     Since 1989 the new management has also tried to make some operational changes. Some of
these measures include: (a) introduction of a more vigilant collections policy which includes paying
bonuses to its officers; (b) liquidating non-performing loans even at substantial discounts; (c) introduction
of limited commercial banking activities and increased emphasis on guarantee and non-loan business; (d)
reduction in staff through non-recruitment of vacant positions and initiadon of further plans for significant
staffing cuts; and (e) acceptance in principle of the ICC study recommendations, and plans to implement
major components of it.
7.05     The project's training component was not able to achieve satisfactory results. No significant
progress was achieved by FMI on the original training program which was to benefit the state and federal
workers, and through them was expected to filter to local entrepreneurs. The Small Scale Industries
Department and IDCs continue to maintain an inward looking management philosophy whereby all
benefits of the project are expected to accrue to the Ministry and its units staff, while very little filters
to entrepreneurs.



- 12 -
8. Bak Performan
8.01     The Bank attempted to establish an improved operational and insdtutional capacity within NBCI
through the Loan under review. As discussed, only very limited achievements were made in this regard.
With Bank's continued pressure some improvements in loan/interest collection practices did take place,
albeit, only towards the end of the project implementation.  It was on Bank's insistence that a
comprehensive study of NBCI's operations was undertaken by ICC which has provided a foundadon for
future restructuring of the bank. However, given the project objectives, the Bank should have pressed
more vigorously at a much earlier stage of project implementadion for institutional restructuring.
Additionally, in light of NBCI's poor financial condition, the Bank should have insisted on NBCI to
charge higher interest rates for loans since the rates remained negadve in real terms throughout the life
of the project. On the positive side, many of the lessons learnt from this project (Section 10) were taken
into consideration at the time of designing another Bank operation (SME II Project). For example, the
project under review did not allow working capital loans which became one of the major reasons for
delayed operadons and shortfall in capacity udlization of constructed plants. SME II project allows
financing of working capital needs of the subprojects.
8.02     The Bank was even less effective in supervising the training component of the project. Several
supervision missions took place but possibly not enough follow-up was done.
8.03     Despite the unsadsfactory results, the Bank spent a substantial amount of time to supervise the
implementation of the project. A total of 331 staff-weeks were spent on the project of which 153 staff-
weeks were for supervision purposes. A total of 67 staff-weeks or 20% of the total were spent in the
field (Part m. Table.
9. Borrower Performance
9.01     Part m. Table 5 provides information on the status of covenants and reviews the performance
of the borrower. Except for some delays in submittdng audited accounts of NBCI, lack of compliance
with debt/equity ratio requirements (due to equity erosion), and NBCI's inability to provide adequate
protection against foreign exchange risks, the Borrower complied with the legal covenants. Conditions
of effectiveness were met in reasonable time, although, implementadon was delayed by about a year due
to the delay in finalizing IDBI contract.
9.02     The performance of NBCI, as the implementing agency for the line of credit component of the
project was unsatisfactory. Not only was it not able to commit and disburse the allocated amount of
US$35 million, it was also not able to strengthen and improve its institutional and financial condidon.
The limited gains obtained from the twinning partnership were lost soon thereafter, and in fact, NBCI's
performance deteriorated over much of the project implementation period. Only towards the end of the
project when the management changed, NBCI finally took stock of where things were, partly through the
ICC review, and seriously began deliberations to restructure its organization. As pointed out earlier, the
new management appears to be trying in earnest to see how the bank could be turned around and has
already taken some positive steps towards it.
9.03     Even though FMI's performance on the training component was not satisfactory, after it was
agreed to redirect some training funds to purchase IDC equipment, FMI managed, with UNIDO's help,
to procure machinery and equipment before the closing date of the project.



- 13 -
10. Findings and Lessons
10.01     The objectives of the loan clearly fell far short of levels that could be described as satisfactory.
In fact, it may even be fair to say that the objectives of the project under review were not met. NBCI
and FMI's performance was on the whole unsatisfactory. During the implementation of the project
Nigeria went through a series of economic difficulties which severely affected NBCI's clients, and as
result had a disastrous effect on NBCI's financial situation. It brought to fore NBCI's institutional
weaknesses and its almost total inability to cope with the changing economic environment in the country.
The overall impact of these problems was such that by mid-implementation period (1986-87) NBCI's
portfolio had badly deteriorated, its financial position had reached precarious levels, its staff was
disoriented, and its viability was threatened as a result of mounting arrears of principal and interest. It
has taken a lot of commitment and hard work on the part of NBCI's new management to carry the
institution through these difficult times.
10.02    Despite the above, the Bank has played a role in assisting NBCI to achieve some limited results
in its institutional strengthening.  On Bank's insistence, NBCI carried out with the help of ICC
consultants, a comprehensive study for the review of NBCI's organization and operations (para. 5.05).
The ICC Report has documented the inadequacies in NBCI's organization and has recommended
alternatives for its future. These alternatives are under the active consideration of NBCI's Board of
Directors and the Government.
10.03    A few lessons can be drawn from the experience of implementing this project, although these
lessons are neither particularly new nor unique to this operation. Firstly, one of the key reasons for
NBCI's failure has been the lack of experienced, skilled and motivated staff particularly in the areas of
appraisal and supervision. NBCI was overstaffed with inexperienced people, and those who were
provided training, once trained, left for better paying jobs. The bank lacked autonomy and was unable
to revise its pay scales to match the market rates. An institution cannot be built without a core of
motivated and experienced staff, and unless the management has a dedicated commitment to a
comprehensive staff training program on a continuous basis, it is not possible to achieve sustained success
in institution building. NBCI must reduce its redundant staff, as it has just begun to do, and recruit
appropriate number of new staff and managers skilled particularly in the areas of appraisal and
supervision.
10.04     Secondly, if the Government decides to revitalize NBCI through a radical restructuring
program, NBCI must immediately introduce sound banking practices and procedures to avoid, in future,
the situation that it found itself in by not following prudent operational and accounting policies: such as
charging a fixed interest rate to its clients, negative in real terms. Although NBCI did increase its interest
rates from time to time, but modifications made were: (a) not timely enough to respond to market
changes; and (b) not sufficient, in terms of magnitude, to compensate for inflation. NBCI should start
charging variable interest rates to its customers like almost all financial institutions are currently doing
in Nigeria. It should also structure its interest rates and fees such that they cover NBCI's expenses and
provide a level of profitability that sustains its operations. A strict policy of portfolio review and correct
classification of non-performing loans for accounting purposes must be immediately introduced. NBCI
may also need to shut down some of its less effective branch offices in order to cut administrative
expenditures.
10.05     Thirdly, NBCI's experience, as that of several other DFIs, emphasizes the importance of
taking a second-hard look at project appraisals when the economic situation is volatile and original
assumptions underlying projections may no longer remain valid. In other words, a very thorough
sensitivity analysis is essential.



- 14 -
10.06    Fourthly, NBCI has had a difficult time in liquidating mortgaged assets by foreclosing some
of its bad debts. The legal framework required for the smooth functioning of such transactions,
particularly in rural areas, did not exist. There is need for review of the legal framework in order to
make loan administration more effective. (This is expected to be undertaken in the context of
restructuring the financial system).
10.07    Lastly, NBCI perhaps with the encouragement of the Bank, was over-emphasizing its
developmental role at the expense of commercial considerations. Sound and prudent banking principles
became subservient to the 'developmental' role which simply became transfer of investment resources
to small business borrowers without ensuring that the funds would support commerciafly viable projects.
The subprojects concentrated in greenfield micro-enterprises with no track records. It would have been
advisable to maintain a better balance between investing in such greenfield projects and those for
expansion of existing plants.
11. Project Documentation and Data
11.01    The Loan and Project Agreements for Loan 2376-UNI were adequate and appropriate for
achieving project objectives in the key organizational and financial areas. The appraisal report of the
project provided a useful framework for both Bank and NBCI for review of project implementadon.
NBCI provided informadon and data for this Project Completion Report.
11.02    Most of the NBCI loan portfolio and financial data are prepared manually. There is an urgent
need for the design and implementation of a comprehensive and automated management information
system. Some initiatives have been taken by NBCI recently in this area, and a limited computerization
program is under implementadon.



- 15 -
PART II: PROJEC-T REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
SME I PROJECT (Loan 2376-UNI)
NBCI agrees essentially with the observations made by the World Bank in Part I of this report.
The myriad of problems facing NBCI - institutional, organizational and financial was a result of past mis-
management which contributed significantly to the poor performance in project implementation. To
effectively address these problems, the new Management of NBCI has accorded top priority to
implementing a radical and comprehensive reform programme. The elements of this programme include
organizational, institutional reforms and financial restructuring.
Efforts are being made to recruit competent and experienced staff at both Management and
staff levels. Projects appraisal and procedures have been reviewed. Project monitoring and collection
have improved substantially. Government has approved in principle, the financial restructuring of NBCI.
However, our views on some parts of the report are indicated below.
Proiect Implementation:
Other factors which hampered smooth implementation include:
1.   The Project Agreement did not provide for working capital. This led to completed projects
not going into commercial production several months after the fixed assets were in place. The
assumption at the stage of appraisal of sub-project that Commercial and Merchant Banks would
provide working capital did not materialize.
2.   Excessive cost overruns arising from high inflation rates experienced between 1985 and 1991.
The frequency and magnitude of economic changes were such that nobody could predict and
against which no protective measures existed.
3.   Contingency provisions made at appraisal stage to cover for possible cost measures were
grossly inadequate.
4.   Similarly optimistic project implementation schedules in appraisals led also to unexpected cost
increases, insufficient funding and further delays in project implementation as new bridging
funds were sought.
5.   The legal requirements for sanctions such as Certificate of Occupancy and Registration of
Mortgages on landed property could not be resolved quickly thereby contributing significantly
to the loan lead time between approval, commitment and disbursement.
6.   The sub-projects were concentrated in greenfield micro enterprises and start-ups with no track
records. NBCI required time to build up a comprehensive data base necessary for a more
realistic assessment of the characteristics of borrowers that offer the best changes of
succeeding in their businesses as well as distinguishing those enterprises that present the
highest credit risk. This necessitated constant reviews of the investment evaluation criteria and
procedures resulting in deletion of many approved sub-projects and substitution with new ones
that had met the financial and economic viability criteria.



- 16 -
7.   The sponsors had limited industrial experiences and capacity in the preparation of sub-project
studies of acceptable quality.
Measures To Improve ImRIementation:
The following measures were introduced to eliminate some of the above obstacles and facilitate
speedy implementation:
- Courses were organized for prospective investors, under the EDP/WFY and EMPRETEC
Programmes as an effective means for the identification, training and development of first
generation local entrepreneurs and assisting them in the establishment of small scale
enterprises;
- Review of procedures for procurement of imported plant, machinery and equipment. The
review addressed the problems associated with frequent changes in the choice of suppliers
of equipment, cancellations of LCs, inability on the part of project sponsors to identify
suppliers of technically proven and reliable equipment and provided guidelines for
streamlining all procurement procedures. The review improved the loan administration
and speeded up the pace of disbursements;
- The operations of NBCI are being computerized to improve information flow and projects
monitoring.
Portfolio Arrears and Their Ouality:
Concerted efforts were made to tackle the problem of chronic debt problem. Many projects
were foreclosed where necessary. However, experience has shown that the high expectation is terms of
cash generation was not met because of the attendant problems associated with litigation. Location of
some of the projects in rural areas as there may not be adequate value to cover the fixed assets.
Other Achievements:
In spite of the low performance of the line of credit, there were definite benefits to the
economy:
(a) Job Creation
- a total of 1,213 new jobs were created;
(b) through the training opportunities and exposures provided to the staff under the technical
assistance programme, NBCI provided a reservoir of experienced staff in the area of
project appraisal, supervision and management for the other Commercial and Merchant
Banks in the country;
(c) Raw Material
The use of local raw material has been greatly enhanced and this led to greater national
awareness of the entrepreneurs in project conception, preparation and managerial
capabilities;



- 17 -
(d) The lessons and experience in the implementation of the SME I programme facilitated the
take-off of subsequent programmes like the SME II, NERFUND (National Economic
Reconstruction Fund) and other rural based small scale enterprises projects.
Points to Note in Future Lending:
With the Bank's experience in implementing the SME I Line of Credit, we will like to suggest that
the underlisted issues be considered for future loans:
1.   That given the inherent risks in the SME sector, all future lines of credit to DFIs should be
domiciled in the Central Bank which will provide foreign exchange cover for all potential
importers of capital goods. The DFIs shall arrange for project promoters to obtain access to
special foreign exchange windows that will be created by CBN through the domiciliation of
foreign lines of credit.
2.   That if NBCI has to play its developmental role in the Nigerian economy, there should be two
aspects to its funding:
(a) DeveloDmental Loan:
- for projects which are considered viable in the medium to long term but which are not
fully bankable on commercial grounds. This aspect will have to be under-written by
the Government;
(b) Commercial Loans:
- which will be granted on the prevailing market rates with a very short life span.
3.   Working Capital:
Unlike SME I Line of Credit, future lines of credit should be negotiated with working capital
as part of a loan package to sub-projects in order to allow for easy take-off of such sub-
projects;
4.   Need for a review of the legal framework in line with the on-going restructuring of the
financial system in order to make it more effective on loan administration;
5.   For restructuring of NBCI to be meaningful, the various components of the recommendations
should be implemented as a package.



- 18 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan                  Purpose             Approval       Status           Comments
NIDB I             Meet the gap in NIDB's       1969          Closed           PCR completed;
(Ln 588-UNI)       foreign exchange resources;                                 Performance: satisfactory
strengthen NIDB's
institutional capabilities
NIDB II            Meet the gap in NIDB's       1970          Closed            PCR completed;
(Ln 705-UNI)       foreign exchange resources;                                 Performance: satisfactory
strengthen NIDB's
institutional capabilities
NIDB III           Provide NIDB with a          1978          Closed           PCR completed. Overall
(Ln 1597-UNI)      portion (about 20%) of its                                  Performance: mixed.
foreign exchange resources                                  While satisfactory
needed to finance industrial                                progress was made in
projects; facilitate NIDB's                                 certain areas,
external resource                                           considerable improve-
mobilization efforts from                                   ments were needed in
other sources; further                                      others
strengthen NIDB's
institutional capabilities
NIDB IV            Provide NIDB with a          1983          Closed           PCR completed. Overall
(Ln 2299-UNI)      portion of its foreign                                      performance: mixed.
exchange resources needed
to finance industrial
projects; strengthen NIDB's
institutional capabilities
Private SME II     Stimulate productive         1988          After a slow     Ongoing
Development (Ln   activity in line with                       start because
2995-UNI)          Nigeria's resource                         of interest rate
endowments, and generate                   issues, loan
a sustained supply response                has now been
in private, productive                     modified and
SMEs                                       committments
are rising.
Currently no
significant
problems



- 19 -
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                     Original Date               Actual Date
Identification                April 24, 1978               July 11, 1978
Preparation                       N/A                      June 27, 1980
Initiating Project Brief          N/A                      January 16, 1981
Appraisal Mission             March 13, 1981               July 27, 1983
Negotiations                  December 8, 1981             December 8, 1991
Board Approval                February 2, 1982             January 17, 1984
Loan Signature                February 26, 1982            February 16, 1984
Loan Effectiveness                 N/A                     June 29, 1984
Loan Closing                  June 30, 1991                December 31, 1991
Date of Last Disbursement     June 1988                    January 8, 1992



- 20 -
Table 3:  LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
CUMULATIVE ESTMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Estimated          Revised          Actual         Actual
Fiscal Year        Amount             Amount           Amount /    as % of
Il ---------Cumulative          --                Estimate
1984                 .16               .10              .10          62.5
1985                5.20               .19               19          3.65
1986               13.90               .44             .44           3.17
1987               22.80             5.85              5.85,        25.66
1988               30.006             8.83             8.83         29.43
1989         ~~35.30            14.43            14.78         41.63
1990               38.80            25.75             19.31         49.77
1991               41.00            37.07            21.44          52.29
1992                   -           :41.00            26.40              -
a/ As of March 3, 1992.
TWblO 3:0 Loin Dlsburssmemnt
flUltAIYZ 3IMNWID AND AMUA bIdVIANWIM
so.
:.3  .3     17  as  6 so0  M1  St
Eat AML  -$- Pv. Amt. '  '- AMt. Amt.
Comments
1.       ~~An extension of the Closing date to December 31, 1991 was granted mainly to
accommodate FMI procurement of equipment for IDCs and to allow full implementation of six
subprojects under execution by NBCI.



- 21 -
Table 4: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(NAIRA MILLION)
Appraisal EItimatat                   Acal
_Loca L  Forelgrt    Tota         Loc   -   eg      n ot
Total Project Requirement          18.4      26.7     45.1          66.9     136.6    203.5
Represented by:
(a) IBRD Loan                      0.3      26.7      27.0          3.1     136.6     139.7
(b) Line of Credit (NBCI)          6.3         -       6.3         40.1         -      40.1
(c) FGN (loans and equity)         4.5         -       4.5         12.5         _      12.5
(d) Sub-Project Sponsors           7.3         -       7.3         11.2         -      11.2
at Average Exchange Rate in 1982 was US$1 - Naira.66.
b/ As of January 8th, 1992
Comments:
At appraisal, total project costs were estimated to be US$68.4 million including US$5.1 million In taxes. The
foreign exchange component was to be US$40.5 million or 64% of the net project costs. The Bank loan of
US$41 million was to finance 65% of net costs, covering fully the foreign costs and US$ 0.5 million of local
costs of the training component. Local costs of the credit component were to be covered by owners'
contribution and NBCI. The balance of the local costs not financed by the Bank loan for the training
components were to be covered by the Government. NBCI was to fully cover the local costs of its technical
assistance program.
AF41E/TABLE4                                                                                   18-Jun-92



- 22 -
Section            I  Covo2Xnaf                           tas of Com2liance
3.01             NBCI to maintain adequate financiiialoacounts.     lit compliance
3.02             NBCI to have its aowunts audited and sent to,     De lye.  FY90 and 91 not
the Bank withi 6 months of closingt of eaczh       submitted.:
FY.
3.03            NBCI debt not to ejceed five tnime its equiy        No compliane 4in later years
due to it eqity erosion.
3.04             NBCI to protect its portfolio against foreign      Not' fully~ comple.
exchange risk losses.
4.01(a)          NBCI exhange views with the Bank from time         In compliance.
to time.
4.01(b)          NBCI to furnish to fte Bank information on         In compliance.
'expendtures. loan prced and SMEs.
4.01(c)          NBCI to prepare and, furisih to the Bank its       In compliance.
part Of the PCR.
4.02             NBCI to promptly inform the Bank on any
condition that is threatening or interfering with  In compliance.
its operations.



- 23 -
TABLE 6: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Pr.-Appraiaal  Jan 1978       2.8           2.0                                  OPR
Jul 1978          -           3.3                                  ECN
Oct 1978        1.0           3.2
Nov 1979        1.0           1.0                                  ECO, OT
Doc 1979       80.2           2.0                                  ECO, OPR. OT
Mar 1980        1.0           3.0                                  ECO
Jun 190         1.0           3.0
Dec 1980       21.8           3.0                                  OPR
Jan 1981        1.0             -                                  OPR, OT
Subtotnl           U            21          a              12
Appraisal     Jul 1981        1.0           1.0                                   ECO, OPR
Nov 1981       49.7           2.0                                  ECO, OP, FIN
Jan 1982        3.0           3.0                                  OPR
Mar1982         3.4           3.4
May 1982        2.0           2.0
Jul 1982        1.0           1.0
Subtotal         60.1          12.4         0              10
Negotiation   Doc 1982        9.1             -
Apr 1983        4.0           1.0                                  OPR
Jun 1983        8.9           3.0                                  FIN
May 1984       12.0           1.0                                  ECO,OPR,OT
Subtdal          34.0           1.0         4               8
Suporvision    Oct 194       11.0           2.0                                   ECO. EDU
Jun 1988        8.4           3.0                                  EDU, OT
Jun 1986        4.0           1.0
Nov 19G0       21.4           2.0                                  ECO, OPR, FIN, OT       2         M
Feb 1987          -           3.0
Mar1987         5.0           1.0                                  OPR
Sep 1987        7.0           1.0                                  ECN
Nov 1987       20.2           2.0                                  FIN
Jul 1988       20.0           2.4                                   FIN, EO. OPR. OT       2         M
Feb 1989        2.0           2.0                                   ECO, OPR               3         M
Jul 1989        3.4           3.0                                   FIN. OT                3         M
Dc 1989         4.4           2.0                                  OPR. FIN. OT            3         M&L
Sep 1990       16.3           2.0                                   ECO. OPR, FIN. OT      3         M. L, & F
May 1981       14.8           2.4                                   ECO, OPR. FIN, OT      3         M. L & F
Mar 1992        8.3                                                FIN. ECO                3
Subtotil        152.7          28.8        17              62
Grand Total     330.0          67.2        36              92
.....  ...  .
a/ Includos Consuftants; based on limited data.
bi Specialazatlon: FIN-Financial Analyst. ECN-Economlrg
OPR-Operatfon Offlce, EDU-Education Seciallt.
LOF-Lon Officer, OT-Otter
cl Status: 1-Problem-Fre or Minor Problbms; 2-Moderat Problms; 3-Major Problemc
di Type o Problems: M-Managral; L-gal: F-Financial
AF41EA8NKRESR                                                                                                            is-Jun-el



.. : : . - $ - ; tiSi iSig ~~~~~............ .... WE00-
:::    : ::   iE   E   i: .:.::i::.E:::E    E        :::E:  : E             o::          :........    ..::. .......
:~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ . .                                                         .... ............
, ~~~~~~~.... .......                                                                                                                   . .............. .  .
i.d TER i E ~~~~~~.................   .EiSER .i SEEDL.;. 0.f.f.ffiE.d D iLS i.A.:.:.: .X:S. i .;i iEiL.ST..i ;
St0000. 0 ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........                                                        ......... ........... .... ... .00000. 0.;. . l.;.  t.0.0.:lSS000.X.000. i 00.S.f.0
A f tS StE400 i 0 000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-.0t0. ;lf0. t.0.St00 t-iE.f0...                                                 ._0.0.0.0.0,000.00.. f ..g00
....0XlStl.'t.00 :.''.'..      t..0.'.0,-0iSttS4:ff00000'-S000-.0                                              ..      ...G.0t,0 000,000000000 ..... I.......00
4~ ~ ~ ~~~.     .......



THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUB-PROJECTS AND COSTS APPROVED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
N . -: .. : -:. :.  E. -:.: -: ...............                                    -N                                                          URS.:-S:.
NO.:        PROJE0T:           NUMERr: ,:SEIGTOR            PRDCSLOCATION                       SIAE ACTAL: Al VARIANCE;                                  ( U$  NAIRAJ
1 JuQon Umitod               I-A-003    Agro Allied     Vegetable OIl iMO                          820    1,234.9 aJ     414.9      60.6       352.9      1,234.9
2 Marks and Company          1-A-004    Agro Allied      Feedmill            ONDO                720.0      720.0           0.0      0.0       190.3       729.0
3 O.U.Bros. Shoe & Bag        1-A-00     Manufacture    Shoes & Bags         IMO               2,144.0    1,495.6  a/    (6048.4)    (30.2)   297.2      1,496.0
4 Arita Pharmaceutical       1-A-007    Chemical         Phanwacuticdc       ClRIVER               750   18,822.3      18,072.3   2409.0       597.1      2,003.2
6 G.I.C. & Asociates Ltd.    1-A-009    Agro Allied      Foed Mlil            NIGER             2,486.0   6,444.0       2,969.0    119.1       375.7      3,248.3
O Integrated Marble Ind.     1-A-010    Manufacture    Cultured Marble        AKWA/IBOM          850.0    1.168.7         318.7     37.5       857.4      3,986.7
7 Kayode Ojo & Sons          1-A-011    Food             Bakery              ONDO                570.0      967.0         397.0     69.0       147.5       928.0
8 Union Oak Farms/nd.        1-A-013    Agro Allied      Grain Processing     ANAMBRA           1,563.0    4,362.0      2,799.0    179.1       995.4      4,340.9
9 Rowlandeon Veg/Ol        | 1-A-015    Agro Allied      Vegetable Oil       IMO                2,215.0    2,215.0          0.0      0.0       333.7      3,685.6
10 Growell Foods Nightd       1-A-010    Agro Allied     Gard Procesing       ONDO                340.0      430.0          90.0     20.5        43.0       19f.5
11 Daho Foeds Nig Ltd.        1-A-019    Agro Allied      Feed Mille           PLATEAU           2,892.0    1,902.0       (990.0)    (34.2)     332.2       091.4
12 Garden Foods Nig Eng Co    1-A-020    Agro Allied     Tomatoc Paste Puree   PLATEAU           4,100.0    5,282.0      1,182.0     28.8        85.4      4,515.0
13 Bright Future Jt Ind.      1-A-021     Manufacture    Soap                  IMO               1,1S0.0   3,913.8 a/    2,763.6    240.3       475.7      3,913.8
14 Standard Nig Eng Co.       1-A-022    Other           Auto.Service W/shop   ONDO                 0.0       47.1  a/      47.1        -         3.8        47.1             tn
16 Indigenous Tech Dev        1-A-023    Chemical         Kadin Refining       IMO                  0.0   3,889.5  a/   3,889.6         -       632.0      3,889.5
1l Nig Polyproplene Bag       1-A-020    Manufacture    Polyproplene Sacks    IMO                2,487.0   3,628.2 a/    1,041.2     41.9       395.2      3,628.2
17 Express Pub & Stat         1-A-028    Chemical        Color Separation     IMO               10,109.0   13.121.0      3,012.0     29.8       127.8      1,147.8
18 Ollan Mills Nigeria Ltd.   1-A-029    Agro Allied     Meat Processing       LAGOS             1,019.0    1,114.0         95.0      9.3       189.2      1,417.1
19 Sparks War Ud.             1-A-030     Textie          Garments            iMO                1,135.0     965.7 a*    (179.3)    (16.8)      181.5       955.7
20 Home and Office Ind. NIg    1-A-032     Manufacture    Vinyl Asbestos Tiles    ONDO           3.331.0    3,024.2  a/    (300.8)    (9.2)     520.3      3,024.2
21 Mezu lntemational Ud.       1-A-034    Manufacture    Plastic Jars         IMO                2,485.0    3.202.6  a/    717.6     28.9       379.2      3.202.6
22 Al John Enterprises        1-A-037    Agro Allied      Grain Processing     AKWA-IBOM         1,661.0    1.661.0          0.0      0.0       328.0      2,337.0
23 Arita Industdries Ld.       1-A-040    Textile         Garments             PLATEAU           3,837.0   11.615.0      7,778.0    202.7       735.8      5,500.7
24 Nurabash EnterpriseLsUmited  1-A-042    Manufacture    Candlesicks          OGUN              1,057.0    1.057.0          0.0      0.0       159.5       806.7            s
25 Concriss Paper Indus.       1-A-043                                         ANAMBRA              0.0    3.933.5 c/    3,933.5        -       435.7      3,933.5
20 Skako Nigoera Ltd.          1-A-044    Chemical        Pharmacutical        OGUN              1,928.0   3,152.1  a/    1,224.1    63.5       359.2      3,152.1
27 Niger Meat & Allied         1-A-C40     Agro Allied    Meat Procesing       OYO               3,105.0   6,819.0       3,714.0    119.6       494.6    10,214.1
28 Bahir(Nigeria) Ltd.         1-A-047                            _            PLATEAU           1,300.0    4,641.4  s/   3,341.4    257.0      757.0      4,641.4
29 First Farm Nig. Ltd.        1-A-048     Agro Allied    Paddy Rice Milling   NIGER              976.0      950.0         (26.0)     (2.7)      116.0      649.2
30 Petadel Nigrai Ud.          1-A-050    Manufacture    Soap                  ONDO              2,423.0   2,613.0         190.0      7.8       342.1      3,863.9



THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUB-PROJECTS AND COSTS APPROVED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
h~~R~                                   S.                                   .-                     X                                    W A N-8 -flt-h  SS!fp;00Zh;
..-....-... -....'S..-.-.-''.-...'.'.t'''  '"'''"''""'''' .S -   - -.. ,..~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............
NO.  P~~~~J~~T          NUM13ER!:  SETRPOUT                               LCTO           SIAE   A-UL  1VAINC                  n j         4S$
31 Bemec Foods Ng. Ltd.        t-A-064     Food            Fruit Juic           ONDO              2,339.0    2,256.2 Al      (82.8)     (3.6)     310.7      2,256.2
32 Una-Ama Niger Ltd.          1-A-066     Manufacture    Paper Conversion      AKWA/IBOM         1,845.0    2,411 .6       566.6      30.7       286.6      1,744.0
33 Agro Marig Ltd.             1-A-067     Food            Food Snacks          ANAMBRA               0.0    2,264.4 at   2,254.4         _       377.3      2,264.4
34 UTC Nigeri Ltd.             t-A-06S     Agro Alied      Paddy Rice Milling   NIGER             1,405.0    3,500.0       2,096.0    149.1       233.9       612.2
35 Continentl TyrelRbr         1-A-002    Others           Tir Retrading       lILO               1,111.0    1,607.4 ae     386.4      35.7        156.8     1,607.4
36 Runimex Holding             1-A-003     Fishing         Fish TrawNing        LAGOS             4,926.0    6,674.5 at      748.6     16.2       829.5      6,674.6
37 Git Fat Ni*ria Ltd.         1-A-064    Steel            Bolts and Nuts       ONDO                  0.0    2.165.8 at    2,166.8        -       253.4      2,165.8
38 Unit One Organiz.           1-A-05      Manufacture    Vegetable Oil         IMO               2.736.0    2,590.0        (140.0)     (5.3)     390.0      1,747.3
39 Prestressed Concrete        1-A-0OS     Manufacture    Concrete Poles        OYO               1,448.0    1,675.0         227.0     15.7        139.5       738.5
40 Sincefe Nigeria Umited      1-A-067    Manufacture    Polythene Bags         ONDO              1,621.0    1,751.0         130.0       8.0       186.6     1,634.0
41 Alpha Educational Services    1-A-070   Manuacture    Paper Conversion       ONDO                  0.0    2,441.7 a/   2,441.7         -        305.9     2,441.7
42 Green Products Nig. Ltd.    1-A-072     Agro Allied     Meat Processing      OGUN              3,568.0    3,575.0 a/       17.0      0.5        455.3     3,676.0
43 Kadico Rubber               1-A-073    Other            Inne Tubes           KWARA                 0.0    3,438.1  a/   3,438.1        -        400.3     3,438.1
44 Memms W. Arica Ltd.         1-A-074    Other            Paper Recycling      ANAMBRA             402.7      402.7           0.0      0.0        3g7.9     3,073.7              0%
45 Enylbroa Foods Proc.        1-A-077    Agro Allied      Paddy Rice           ANAMBRA           2,144.0    3,138.0         984.0     46.4        308.5     3,004.7
46 Keltic Enterprises          2-A-02      Other           Gas Station          AKWAMIBOM           822.0      713.5 at    (108.6)    (13.2)       135.5       713.5
47 Lvestock Planning Cons.Ud.  2-A-004     Agro Allied     Uvestock Foeds       PLATEAU               0.0      603.0 al      603.0        -         73.7       603.0
48 Meteor-Slogn Ind.Nig.Ltd.    2-A-006    Chemical        Photochemicals       IMO               1,205.0    1,709.5 al      504.5     41.9        166.5     1,709.6
49 J. Y. Wushihl & Sons        2-B-001     Manufacture    Soap                  NIGER               524.0    1,180.0         656.0    125.2         12.4       484.0
50 Grato Nigera Ltd.           2-B-004    Manufacture    Furniture              BENDEL              925.0      371.3 at     (53.7)    (59.9)        57.3       371.3
61 Soul Scissor Inti.          2-B-005     Textile         Garments             LAGOS               242.0      287.0          46.0     18.6         37.5       123.5
62 Smaritt Dress indus.        2-B-oo0     Textile         Dress indusry        LAGOS               496.0      496.0           0.0      0.0         64.7       232.0
63 Benton Farms Nig.           2-B-007    Agro Allied      Paddy Rice Milling   ANAMBRA             260.0      260.0           0.0      0.0         34.2       159.0
64 Agro Processing Ltd.        2-B-008                                         -ANAMBRA             502.0      512.0          10.0      2.0         21.3       220.5            b >
65 Sumaim Construction Engr UL. 2-B-009    Steel           Metal Fabrication    IMO                 50.0       560.0           0.0      0.0         39.2       353.5           O 
60 Nelson Okoro Kalu           2-8-011     Other           Sawmilling           IMO                 578.0      641.0          63.0     10.9         90.8       396.6               A
67 Rasheeda TokosdSons         2-8-013     Food            Potato Chips         LAGOS               313.0      600.0         287.0     91.7         23.8       2U.7o
68 Anco Inved                  2-8-017    Manufacture    Bar Soap               KANO                705.0      705.0           0.0      0.0         94.6       484.6
69 Usmanba Vehicles & Parts    2-B-018     Steel           Crankshaft Grinding       _              433.0      650.0         217.0     60.1         55.6       453.6
60 Falco Dry Cleaning          2-8-019                                          ONDO                473.0      694.0         221.0     48.7         62.4       251.0



THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUB-PROJECTS AND COSTS APPROVED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
PROJECT                                                                 INVESTMENT COST (NWoO)                    LOAN DISBURS.(000)
NO.         PROJECT:            NUMBER    SECTOR -:    PRODUCTS                    LOCATION    ESTIMATE   ACTUAL at VARIANCE             U%)       USS)      (NAIRA
61 Kenzo & Sons Entpris        2-8-020     Agro Allied     Paddy Rice Milling   ANAMBRA             180.0      190.0          30.0     18.8        24.9        110.1
62 Afoco Trading Co. Ud.       2-8-021     Agro Allied     Poultry Farming      ANAMBRA             198.0      239.0          41.0     20.7         21.5       216.8
63 Berofoam Nigoria Ltd.       2-023       Chemical        P.K.O. Extraction    IMO                   0.0      139.6  a/     139.6        -         30.0       139.6
64 Oten Invesdment Nig         2-026       Agro Allied     Grain Milling        IMO                 260.0      115.9  a/    (144.1)    (58.4)       11.7       115.9
65 Duppy Fashion House         2-8-027     Textbl          Garments             OYO                   0.0       22.0  a/      22.0        _          6.8        22.0
66 Kwasalah Enterprw Nig. Ltd. 2-029       Agro Allied     Grain Processing                          73.0       36.7  a/     (36.3)    (49.7)        4.8        36.7
67 BakoSawmillsLUd.            2-B-032     Other           Logging              KATSINA             147.0      116.0  a/     (31.0)    (21.1)        9.0       116.0
68 Ndaba Nigeria Ltd.          2-034       Mhnufacture    Soap                  KWARA               318.0      182.0  at    (136.0)    (42.8)       21.2       182.0
9 St Judec Ventures            2-035       Manufacture    Soap                  AKWA-IBOM           413.0      413.0           0.0      0.0         36.2       195.5
70 Feli Okhwelu Indust         2-B-036     Agro Allied     Garri Processing     BENDEL                0.0     292.4  a/      292.4        -          7.7       292.4
71 Gonks Ud.                   2-B-037     FIshing         Fish Farming         ANAMBRA             378.0     390.0           12.0      3.2         43.3       234.4
72 Nzejag Indust Nig.          2-8-038     Agro Allied     Fish Farming         ANAMBRA             393.0      381.0         (12.0)     (3.1)       70.7       366.8
73 Falsa Co. Nig. Ld.          2-Et039    Other            Marble Crushing      NIGER               458.0      492.0          34.0      7.4         61.8       214.1
74 Servers Food Nig. Ud.       2-8-046     Agro Allied     Processng Spices     LAGOS               118.0      125.0           7.0      5.9          9.0        65.6
75 Sunad & Co. Ltd.            2-8-047    Other            Motor W/shop         LAGOS               202.0      519.0         317.0    1 56.9        19.9       143.3
76 lsah Binukon                2-8-048     Manufacture    Saw Milling           KWARA               500.0      500.0           0.0      0.0         51.8       320.6
77 Sanya Olu and Sons          2-B-l049    Manufacture    Candle Manufacturing   LAGOS              236.0     256.0           20.0      8.6        27.1        134.3
78 Tunj Home of Fashlon        2-B-051     Textile         Garments             OYO                 244.0     244.0            0.0      0.0        31.2        134.3
79 Zim-Pam African Publishers   2-B-052    Paper           Textbook Publishers   IMO                503.0     503.0            0.0      0.0        26.6        145.1
80 Alpha Chemial               2-8-063     Manufacture    Cosmetics             ANAMBRA               0.0       87.9 a/       87.9        -         14.6        87.9
81 Gadrach Industdre Ltd.      2-8-054     Manufacture     Saddle & Clips       ANAMBRA             396.0      147.4  al    (248.6)    (62.8)       29.8       147.4
82 Edomat Nigoea Ltd.          2-8-056     Manufature    Soap                   BENUE               336.0     336.0            0.0      0.0        26.1        120.4
83 Be Op Trading Co.          2-8-05                                           BENUE               394.0      24.9 at    (369.1)    (93.7)        24.8         24.9
84 fTjahbolt Resources         2-8-058     Agro Alied      Ganl Procesing       CIRIVER               0.0      114.0  a/     114.0        _         0.8        114.0              :
85 Habco Nigeria Ud.           2-8-02      Agro Alied      Rke Milling          PLATEAU               0.0      119.7 at      119.7        -         8.7        119.7
U  Siyak Industries Niger      2-8-09      Manufacture    Polytwhe BSag         KANO                312.0     312.0            0.0      0.0        30.0        144.0t
87 Springhvbw Garments         2-8-079    Textile          Garments             ONDO                603.0     835.0          232.0     38.5        80.6        645.7           O
88 Arewa Leatherworks          2-8-080     Manufactur      Shoe                 KANO                336.0     322.0          (13.0)     (3.9)      37.2        290.3
89 G.M.C. Nigeria Ld.          2-8-081    Agro Allied      Vegeta  Oil          GONGOLA             591.0     000.0            9.0      1.6         40.7       380.2
90 Electroshed Engineering Co.   2-8-085    Other          DredgIng of Sand     IMO                   0.0     815.4  a/      815.4        -        110.1       816.4



THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUB-PROJECTS AND COSTS APPROVED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
INVESTMENT COS.-~ is- -E (N00                                                                                     WAN  I O-Is S. 000
NO.  PROJECT           ~~~~NUMBE    SETOR::          PFRODUCTS:.           LOCATION    ESTIMATE   ACTUAL: aI VARIANCE            (U)      (US        (NRA
91 Chrls Nigerba Ud.           2-8-08    Agro Allied      Vegetable Oli        RIVERS              198.0      198.0           0.0       0.0        11.4       108.5
92 Yemtay Investments          2-8-100     Manufacturo    Ceramic Products      KWARA               140.0      112.3         (33.7)    (23.1)        8.7       114.3
93 LIvhel Chemist              2-8-103     Chemical        Pharmaceutical       LAGOS               215.0      144.6  al     (70.4)    (32.7)       26.2       144.0
94 Philgood Ud.                2-8-105    Chemical         P.K.O. Extraction    BENDEL              329.0      484.0         155.0     47.1         31.8       181.7
95 Sim Orowo Konltanmbe        2-B-111    Other            Coldroom Storage     OGUN                721.0      750.0 a/       29.0      4.0         56.6      750.0
96 De-Sandax NIgeria           2-B-113     Chemic          Color Separation     ANAMBRA             227.0      145.5 a*      (81.5)    (35.9)       29.2       145.5
97 Gmor Health & Hygiene       2-8-114     Chemas          Health Products      ANAMBRA             200.0      144.1  a1     (55.9)    (27.9)       24.5       144.1
98 Dlmstevw Enterprises        2-B-115     Chemical        P.K.O. Extraction    ANAMBRA             200.0       85.5  a/    (114.5)    (57.3)       17.0        85.6
99 Yorkess Intl                2-8-116    Textile          Fabdric Products     ANAMBRA             210.0      219.1 a*        9.1       4.3        42.7       219.1
100 Slngh Pharmaceutial         2-8-119    Chemica          Pharmaceuticals      IMO                 187.0      110.5 */      (76.5)    (40.9)      21.7        110.5
101 Uniol Ventures              2-8-122    Agro Allied      Vegetabl Oil         LAGOS                90.0       48.8  aI     (51.3)    (52.3)       7.6         46.8
102 Bat Serv8                   2-8-123     Agro Allied     Cassav Starch        LAGOS               306.0      300.0           0.0      0.0         22.8       216.4
103 Gaybel Nigeria Ld.          2-8-124    Chemicals        Polythen Bags        LAGOS               348.0      468.8  a/     120.8     34.7         60.0       468.8
104 Alrape Indusres             2-8-126     Manufature    Block Making           LAGOS               310.0       91.1 a*    (218.9)    (70.6)        17.6        91.1              Go
105 Olubukola Indud.            2-8-127     Agro Allied     Animal Feeds         LAGOS               204.0      171.7 a/      (32.3)    (15.8)       20.9       171.7
106 Paragon Bistro Nig. Ud.     2-8-131     Food            RstwurantlCaterng    LAGOS               126.0      126.0           0.0      0.0         18.4       100.1
107 Aunwa Garment Indutres      2-B-139                                                                 0       182.5 . a/    182.5        -         52.2       182.5
108 NIWr FumIture               2--140      Manufacture    Fumiture              SOKOTO            1.311.0    1 364.0          53.0      4.0         58.2       754.3
100 Usnan Memori En.            2-B-147     Other           Ptrol Station        SOKOTO              306.0      315.0           9.0       2.9        10.9       141.5
110 Cassamarl Farm. & Procen    2-8-158     Agro Allied     Starch               NIGER               161.0      210.0          49.0     30.4         21.8       121.8
111 Perect PceNe Nrw            2-8-171                                                                0.0      141.1  a/     141.1        -         11.1       141.1
---~~~      ~~~ .t  .     . . . . .y .= .r:                                      . . .. . . .
*t  LUn disrsemt In assumed to be Oe Actual Project Cost.
4,% 



THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
PERFORMANCE OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
.........                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~CAIPACrfTY
FINANCIAL ECONOMIC                                                              COTPR              UTIUZATIONW
::  ;.                                                                                                           ......  .'..,.:.,.:...'           '  ::::.  . .    :"  ..-  :   ' ,::.'.    .     ''-. '' '" ':: '    ;   ',.
-- :-_________________ -4              ~  :ST.  --T,  -:T~ -:.   EST.  :          .    ET DE  -E S  -ST.   A. V                 STO    A :  -C .         ACT' .-
I Julpw Lkn mitd                t-A-OS       28      -   20      -      8o      1.235    9    _      0        40       - (40    20.5       _       85        -
2  ___ Company_          _         A 1-A004  20      -    IS     -       720      720    8   30    22          17     10 (7    42.4   72.0         70       10
3 O.I.I.Brom. Shoo & Sag         1-A-0       12      -    -      -     2.144    1,496   12   18       a       32      32   0    67.0   67.0        70       30
4 AF_a__h ____          _        1___  -A-007  42    62   29     _       750   18.822   12   18       a       33      36      2 22.7   52.0        70       10
6 G.I.C. & UncfsLd.        1      -A000  _           -    -      -     2,4us    6,444     -    -  o        _        _        _         _     _  
6 ItegrgatdMahMs hid.            1-A-010     31      -   20      -       880    1.160     9   13      4       43      36  (8)   19.8   33.4        70       12
7 Kaods Op &  ms                 1-AIl       27      -   22      -       670      067    12   24    12        23       - (23)   25.0       -       *0        -
_I  _      _n Oak F_rmd.    _   1-A-013      20      -   22    _       1.863    4.362    6   12       6       40      40   0    30.0  109.0        70       36
a     ________ V    __           1-A-016     23      -   27    _       2.215    2.216   12   60    38         40      40   0    27.0   27.0        80       27
10  _r l Foods N                  1-A-016     49      _    _      _       340      430   10   16       5       20      10 1I)   17.0   43.0         70       10
II D    _ho Foods N_ g Lid.       1--019       _-           - _         2.802    1,902   12   48    3           -      36  35      -       0.0      s0        -
12 Gardn Foods Nlg Eng Co         1-A-020    21       _   24      _     4.100    6,282   10   48    38         45       -   -    91.1       -       70        -
13  _f_h_ Fu_  Jt Ind.            1-A-021     20      _    17    _      1.150    3,914    -    -       0       41       -   -    28.0       -       70        5
14  __d N_ Eng Co.                1-A-=022     _     -         -           0        47     -    -      0        -       -   _      _        _        _        _
16  __ _ _ __ous Tech Dev         1-A-023      _      _    _      _        0    3,889    -    -        0        _       _   _      _        _        _        _
18 N_ _lg      _ _o_ne 8cgI -A-02            25      -    _      -     2.U7    3,528      -    -      0        _       -   -      -        -       70       17
17 Expirom Pub & Stat             1-A-028     48      _    _      _    10,109   13.121    15   34    19        25      25   0   404.0  524.8        70       10
18 Olan illa Nler, aLd.           1-A-02      36      _    _      _     1,019    1.114    6   22    16         30      30   0    34.0   37.0        70        -
19 Spairke Wow   .                1-A-030     27      -     -     -     1.135      9506    12    -     0       32       -   -    35.0       -       S0        -
20 Home ud Offko Ind. Nig         1-A-032     23      _    _      -     3.331    3,024     6    -      0        85      -   -    39.0       -       g0        -
21 M.zu Internmatjon  Ud.         1-A-034     21      _    _      _     2,485    3,203    12    -      0        So      -   -    60.0       -        70       -
22 Al John Enterp_es        _     1-A-037    20       _    _      -     1.881    1.661   12   18       6        36     32  (3)   47.4   75.5        70       35
23 Ail tndustb Ltd.               1-A-040     42            _     _     3.837   11M615    9            0        -       -   -        -      -        -        -
24 Nurabah Enteprlme Umited       1-A-042     29      -    _      _     1,067    1.057   12   17       6        20     20   0    52.9       -       75       22
25 Concrisa Papoe Indus.           -A-043      _      _                     0    3,934     -    -      0        -       -   -      -                 _        _ -
20 Skako Nlgla Ud.                1-A-044     21      _    _      -     1.928    3,162   10    _       0       26       _   -    76.0      _        70       12
27 Ne Moat & A*d                  1-A-046     32      -    _      _     3,105    6,819   10    -       0       So                 8 -    62.0  -    70        -
28 Bahir (Ngerla) Ud.             1-A-047     29      _    14     -     1.300    4,641    16    -      0       25       -   -    30.0      -        70        _
2Firt Farm Nig. Ld.               1-A-048     44      _     -    -        976      950     8   20    12        20      20   0    48.0   48.0        70        6
30 Petadel Nigera Ltd.            1-A-050     24      _     -    -      2.423    2,613   12   40    28          29     29   0    84.0    0.0        80        5
31 Bemc Foods Nlg.Ud.             1-A-04      40      _     -     -     2.339    2,256 . 10    -       0        40      _ -    58.0        -        70



THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
PERFORMANCE OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
-.. -                                                - gI -                  -   -       -        -         -        -
Na~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                             PER., 'U0  S, AT  s  '. EV  T  s    ~A6ETj~~M imi~L.
W ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ,. ...             . . ..   .. .. ..   . .   . ...                 ...   .... ...
32 Un.-Ama NI         L  ..d.      1-A-05       26      _     _      -      1        2.412     7   12      5         36      36   0    52.7    68.0        70       45
33 AWoeMad  Ltd.          1         -A-07        -                             0     2.254     -    -      0                -    -         -  _    _ _
34 MTC Nkg .Ud.                    1-A-058      42      _      _     _      1.405    3,500    10   24    14          22      35  13    64.0   100.0        70        _
35 Condnt T)yIroRbt                1-A-02       27      _      _     _      1.111    1.507    122    -     0         35       -   -    32.0      -         75        _
36 R0Mi. Holdn                     1-A-06       26                          4.928    5.676    12    -      0         41         -  _  120.0 1              70
37 Gl4 Fat Nigeda Ltd.             1-A-064       -                             0     2.166     -    -      0                                        _   _ 
38 UnIt On. Organlz.               1-A-065       --           _            2,738     2.500     7    a      1         30      36   0    70.0    71.0        75        15
39 Preaeed Concruts                1 1-A-C      27      _      _     _      1.448     1.675    a   12      4         29      29   0    60.0    68.0        60         5
40 Sinoer Nigeda Lmited            1-A-6        21      _      _            1,621     1.761    15   24     9         32      32   0    60.0    55.0        75        30
41 Aia Educaiona SwMo.s            1-070         -      -      -     -         0     2.442     -    -      0          -       -   -      -       - 
42 Grnen Product Nig. Ltd.         1-Ao72       36                   _      3,668    3.575    15    -       0        40       _-        89.0     -         70         _
43 KadlRubber                      1-A-073       -      -      -3-                     ,438    -    -       0         -             -            -          -         -
44 UMimu W.AIda Ud.                1-074        32 W           _             403       403    15   24       9        20      2    0    20.1    20.1        70        16
46 Enybo  Foods Proc.              1-077        22      _      _            2.144    3,138    12   18       6        32      32   0    06.0    98.0        75        35
46 Keg Eutepde                     2-A-002      22                           8 _   822  713    15    -      0        20       -   -    41.0      -         70         -              w
47 Lkwdork Plannig Cons.1d.        2-ArO04       _         -                   0       603     -    -       0         -       -   -      -       -          - _
48 MelmSorlegn Ind.Nig.Ltd.        2-A-0OO      20                          l _   1,205  1.709    14    -   0        06       -   -    18.0      -         70         -
49 J. Y. Wuhimd  & sons            2-8-001      35      _    23      -       624      1.180    6   34    28          20      20   0    26.0    60.0        70        35
50 GnidoNigma Ltd.                 2-B-004      21                   - _     925       371     9    -       0        33       -   -    28.0      -         a6         -
Si soul Scl""rs  l.                2-8-006       -      _            _       242       287     6   12       a        15      15  0    16.1    19.1         85        35
62 Smnat Drew Indus.               2-8-000      24             _     _       4906      4906          6      0        23      26   0    18.0    18.0        70         5
53 BentonFannmNig.                 2-8-007      25      _    29      _       200       200    12    A    -4          13      13   0    21.0    21.0        70        20
64 AgroProc engLtd.                2-8-008      26      _         -          502       512     9   25    16          23      18  (8    22.0    28.4        70         -
55 Sumidm Conabunoon Engr Ud.    2-8-009        24      _         -          560       560     9   30    21          36      32  (3)   16.0    17.5         76       46
56 Neeon Okoro Kuu                 2-8-011      39      _    16      -       578       641    12   18       6        42      42   0    13.7    16.3        70        25
67 Rash.daToko USonc               2-8-013      40      _      -     -       313       60o     9   12       3        4       48   0      7.      12.0      70        35
U  Ano Invest                      2-8-017      23      _      -     -       705       705    12   15       3        30      30   0    24.0    24.0          -        _f
50 Uwnani Vehkcs & Parts           2-8-018      36      _      -     -       433       650    12   28    16          15      15   0    29.0    43.0         70        5          O
W  Faco Dry Cleaning               2-8-019      21      _      _     _       473       694     9   40    31          15      150        31.5    46.2        6o       30          4>
01 Kenzo & Sons Entprls            2-B-020       _      _                    160       190     7   12       5        19      190          8.4    10.0       SO       25
2 A/oco Trading Co. Ltd.           2-B-021       -      _      _     _       198       239     6   18    12           9          - -    22.0    27.0        76        _



THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
PERFORMANCE OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
:CAPACITY
FINANCIAL   ECONOMIC                                                                                       UTIIOST PER  :, UZTON
-:-P,    , - O-- J,., ECT ,-,Oi () ,, R R(%)   INEST. COST(O0) COMPEiTION MONTHS  -JOB  CRAA       JOB :3  ,N)
No,   PROJECT             ~~~~NUMOWR  FS, AT    s.AT                S.     AT       EST. ACT. DELAYB  EST, M.:      T,   A                       MS~ AT  S.  aC4T.
63 Derofoem NIgria Ud.             2-B-023       _      -     -                0       140     _     -     0          - _     _       _     _    _
64 Oten investentNlg               2-8-025      64      -     _      _       260       l1i    12    -      0         31       _   _      8.0     _         85
65 Duppy Fashion House             2-8-027       -      -     _      _         0        22     -    -      0          -       _-                 -          - _
66 Kwasalah Enterprise Nig. Ud.    2-8-029       -      -     _      _        73        37     9    -      0         12       _   _      8.0     -         70        -
07 Eako Sawmls Ud.                 2-8-032      60      -     _              147       116     9   17      8         18      12  (6)    8.2      -         70        17
68 Ndaba Nler LUd.                 2-8-034       -      _     _      _       318       182    12    -      0         20       -   -    15.0      -         70
9 StJudes Ventures                 2-B-035      28      -     _      -       413       413    12    6    -.         11       11   0    38.0    38.0        80
70 Fell Oklwelu Indust             2-B-038                 -                   0       292     -    -      0          _       -   _      _       -          _
71 Gonks Ud.                       2-8-037      21      _     _      _       378       390     9    -      0         1a           -    22.0      _         70        _
72 Nzag Indust Ng.                2-8-038      25      -     _      _       393       381     9    9      0         15      15   0    26.0      -         70        -
73 Fais Co. Nig. Ltd.              2-8-039      50      -     _      _       468       492     a    3    -3          20      15  (5)   23.0    33.0        75        5
74 Svers Food Nig. Ud.             2-8-04e      79      -                    l _  118  125     9   18      9         10      10   0    11.8    12.5        60        15
75 Sunad & Co. Ltd.                2-8-047      48      -     _      _       202       619     6   24    18          10      10   0    20.0       0.0      70        -
76 Isah Blnukon                    2-8-048      36      -     _      _       500       500     9   13      4         19      15  (4)   26.3    33.3        70       26
77 SanyaOu and Sons                2-8-049      35      _     _      -       236       256     a   10      4         12      12   0    20.0    21.0        80        10
78 Tunji Homeof Fashion            2-B-051      20      -     _      _       244       244     9   20    11          12       -   -    20.0      -         75        -
79 ZIm-Pam AfIkan Publishers       2-8-052       _      -      -             503       503     7    8       1        22      22   0    22.8    22.8        70       21
80 Alpha Chemical                  2-8-053       -      -      -     _         0        88     -    -      0          -       -   -      -       -          -         -
81 Gadrach Indutries Ud.           2-8-054      38      -      -     _       396       147    12    -       0        36       -   -    11.0      -         75
82 Edomat Nigerb Ud.               2-8-055       -      -      -     _       335       335     a    9.  3            12       8   (4)   27.9    41.9       70        18
83 Be Ojo Trading Co.              2-8-056       _      _     _      _       394        26     6   17    11          21       -   -    18.7      -         85       21
84 Tljahbolt Reource               2-08                        _     _         0      114     _0                   - O  _    _   _      _       _
8'5 Habco Nlgoda Ltd.              2-B-062       _0                                    120     _0                   -         -   -      -       -         70         -
86 Siyak lndud-es Nigorba          2-8-069       _      _     _      -       312       312     9   10       1        13      10  (3)   24.0    31.2        70        20
87 SpringMbw Garments              2-B-079      22      -                    8 -  e03  835    14   18       4        32      32   0    18.8    26.0        80        20
W  Arewa Laatheworkl               2-B-080      32      -            _       335       322     6   14       8        13      13   0    25.7    24.7        50        15
89 G.M.C. Nigeria Ltd.             2-8-081      38       -     _     _       591       600    24   30       6        23       -   -    26.0       -        80 s                  oo1j
90 Electroshed Engineering Co.     2-8-085       _0                                    815     -    -       0       - _       _        _    _    _          _
91 Chril Nig.  Ud.                 2-8-0U       _-      -                    198       198     9   18       9        16      160         12.0    12.0      70         5
92 YemtnayInwvnhenms               2-8-100      54       -     _             146       112     9   15       6        23      16  (8)    6.3       7.5      80         -
93 LvswellChmrnst                  2-8-103      37      _ -  I               216       145     9    -       0        22       -   -    10.0      -         70



THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
PERFORMANCE OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
FINANCIAL   ECONOMI                                                                      OT"R              JIZT
PflJB   RR(%   Rfi(~8   RVEr.O5TM00 COMPLEflO  MONTHS JO   W T                           O5 00)4%
No:            ,,,.J,,, - - Mf    ISV    -CT,  .Et  A.                        T.    AC.    ,$1  ~.T. D...  EST    .''.  .''' _.                 ACT;   _T         A  --
94 Phoood Lid.                     2-8-105      31      -      -     -       329       484    10   12      2         16      160     21.0    30.0          70 
f6 U     eOrawo Konkanmb.          2-6-111      43      -      -     -       721       750     6   16    10          15       -   -    48.0      -         so       26
90  De-SandaxHlgeil                2-B-113      67      -      -     -       227       146     9    -      0         16       -   -    15.0      -         30        _
97   amorI H.alih & Hygien         2-8-114      85      -      -     -       200       144     9    -      0         13       -   -    16.0      -         *0  I
90  Dbng4owErntmqpis               2-8-116                     _     _       200        85     3    -       0        20       -   -    10.0      -         sO         _
99 rYorkeehi                       2-B-116      38      _      _     _       210       219     6    -       0        14       -   -    16.0      -         70         _
100 Sk* PhwmauUcal                  2-6-119       -      _     _      _       137       110     9    -      0         13       -   -    16.0      -         70        _
101  JnhKdo Ivnuts                  2-8-122      32                            a _  _    47     a    -      0         10       -   -    10.0      -         40        _
102  Sa  mbvioe                     2-B-123      37      -      -     -       306       300     9    -      0         33       -   -      9.0     -          0o
103 G.6b. Nige. Lid.                2-8-124      40      -      -     -       84        409     a    -      0         29       -   -    12.0      _         00         _
104 Aerp. ktduWhnb                  2-8-126      26      -      -     -       310        91     6    -       0        22       -   -    14.0      -         70         _
106 C*lbukda hmuaL                  2-8-127      26      -      _     _       204       172     9    -       0        12       -   -    17.0      -         s0 o
100 Pwmgon iao NMo BLd.             2-8-131      20      -      _     _       120       126     0    -       0        12      12   0    10.6    10.6         6o
107 Aunwm Gamni ndusrbe             2-8-1J9       _      _      _     _         -       132     -    -       0       -         -   -      -       -          _ 
106  Niew  Fumnoa                   2-8-140      31       -     -     -      1.311    1.304     6   10       4        22      S2   0    46.0    43.0        30         _
109 Uu , M$Wmel Ent                 2-8-147       -      -      -     -       306       816     6   28    22          12      12   0    26.0    26.0        70 
110 CoCe    M u Fa .&P  Pma         2-8-16   3 0          -     -     -       101       210    12   26    16          1t      16   0      9.0    12.0       70 
111 P.        c NP o=ed. Mge        2-6-171       -      -      -     -         0       141     _-           0      _         _        _    _    _          _
at  Low d ss d b    _ to be 1               Ad    Po CML



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
Total                                          IBRD
Project         Total        Total              Financing
Cost         % By          % By         Amount       % IBRD
SECTOR               No.       (N'000)        Numb.          Cost          (N'000)     Amount
1.   Agro Allied           32        46,356            29            26          43,692         32
2.   Chemical               13       42,417             12           24          13,382         10
3.   Fishing                 2        6,065             2             3           6,065          4
4.   Food                    6        6,386             5             4           5,970          4
5.   Manufacture            32       42,932            29            24          41,119         30
6.   Miscellaneous          14       10,592             13            6          11,749          9
7.   Steel                   3        3,376             3             2           2,818          2
8.   Textile                 9       18,607             8            11          11,767          9
Total:               111       176,732           100          100         136,561        100
=mm      =,=,,,             ,,,          ,,,         ====mm         =mm



- 34 -
ANNEX4
THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECTS ASSISTED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
NO         % OF         INVEST.       % OF          IBRD       % OF
OF        TOTAL         ACTUAL        TOTAL        LOAN        IBRD
STATE             PROJECT   NUMBER           (N'000)       AMOUNT        (US$)    AMOUNT
1    AKWA-IBOM              9          8.1%          7,378         4.2%       1,768        9.5%
2    ANAMBRA               17         15.3%         16892          9.6%       2,888       15.5%
3    BENDEL                 3          2.7%          1,148         0.6%          97        0.5%
4    BENUE                  2          1.8%           360          0.2%          50        0.3%
5    C/RIVER                2          1.8%         18,936        10.7%         598        3.2%
6    GONGOLA                1          0.9%          600.0         0.3%          41        0.2%
7    IMO                   19         17.1%         42,248        23.9%       4,119       22.1%
8    KANO                   3          2.7%          1.339         0.8%         162        0.9%
9    KATSINA                1          0.9%          116.0         0.1%           9        0.0%
10    KWARA                 4           3.6%          4,232         2.4%         482        2.6%
11    LAGOS                 15         13.5%         10,426         5.9%       1,374        7.4%
12    NIGER                  6          5.4%         11,776         6.7%         822        4.4%
13    OGUN                  4           3.6%          8,534         4.8%       1,031        5.5%
14    ONDO                  12         10.8%         17,945        10.2%       2,453       13.2%
15    OYO                   4           3.6%          8,760         5.0%         672        3.6%
16    PLATEAU               6           5.4%         24,163        13.7%       1,993       10.7%
17    RIVERS                 1          0.9%          198.0         0.1%          11        0.1%
18    SOKOTO                2           1.8%          1679          1.0%          69        0.4%
TOTAL               111         100.0%       176,731        100.0%      18,638      100.0%
=mm        ----. . .... ==MM==.. . ......  .               ..-----  mm ---



- 35-
ANNEX5
THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
INVESTMENT COST DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
Total                               IBRD
(N'000)                             Financing
Total                                   Project       % by        % by       (N'000)     % by
Cost Distribution                     No.       Cost    Number        Amount    Amount   Amount
1.   Less than 500,000                       50        11,094     45.0        6.3       10,770       7.9
2.   500.001 - 1,000,000                     20        13,794     18.0        7.8        10,1.87     7.5
3.   1,000,001 - 5,000,000                   34        85,066     30.6       48.1       83,242      61.0
4.   5,000,001 - 10,000,000                   4        23,220      3.6        13.1      23,650      17.3
5.   Above 10,000,000                         3        43,558      2.7       24.6         8,712      6.4
111      176,732    100.0       100.0      136,560    100.0
---- ____ .....____   -=MM    ........  ==mm. ... ..
SIZE DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-LOANS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
Total                                IBRD
(N'000)                              Flnancing
IBRD Loan                                 Project        % by        % by      (N'000)     % by
Size Distribution                     No.   Cost         Number       Amount    Amount   Amount
1.   Less than 200,000                       40         7,736     36.0        4.4        4,855       3.6
2.   200,001 - 500,000                       21        10,619     18.9        6.0         6,723      4.9
3.   500,001 - 1,000,000                     14        16,808     12.6        9.5        10,453      7.7
4.   1,000,001 - 5,000,000                   33       117,460     29.7       66.5        93,141     68.2
5.   5,000,001 - 10,000,000                   2        17,290      1.8        9.8        11,175      8.2
4.   Above 10,000,000                         1         6,819      0.9         3.9       10,214      7.5
111      176,732    100.0       100.0      136,560    100.0
__ -----.. ____ , ....... =.... ......---.. ...........



ANNEX 6
-36-                             Page 1 of 4
THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
UiST OF CANCEI    SUB-PROJECTS UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
Sub-                                                Amount
ProJect                        Economic            Cancelled
No.    Sub-Project Name                Number         Location        Act"t                  (USS)
1    Dayo-Olako Integrated          2-B-176         AbuJa          Other                  22,115
2    Healthways Ltd.                1 -A-035        Abula          Chemical               217,500
3    Oriya Nigeria Ltd.             1 -A-033        AbuJa          Stee                  500,000
4    Bakona Farms                   2-B-174         Abuja          Other                   16,200
5    Integrated Gas Ltd.            1-A-012         Akwa-lbom      Manufacture           542,000
6    Mossat Nigeria Ltd.            1 -A-061        Akwa-lbom      Manufacture           639.999
7    Summerset Industries Tech.     2-A-001         Akwa-lbom      Manufacture            161,000
8    Crossedo Industries            2-B-135         Akwa-lbom      Chemical                21.700
9    Ika Multipurpose Tailoring     2-B-022         Akwa-lbom      Manufacture             32,000
10    A.M. Zault Industries          1-A-056         Anambra        Chemical               315,000
11    Teston Serv. International     2-B-168         Anambra        Food                    20.000
12    D.S.O. lbeh Enterprises        2-B-118         Anambra        Food                   36,000
13    Otago Nigeria Ltd.             2-0-010         Anambra        Other                  75,000
14    Jugl Mann                      2-B-082         Anambra        Food                   100,681
15    Benhov Nigeria Ltd.            2-B-117         Anambra        Chemical               44.000
16    Eureka Enterprises             2-8-167         Anambra        Agro-Allied            40,000
17    Ugochors Agric. Develop. Co.   2-8-110         Anambra        Fishing                  6,000
18    TMX Nigeria Ltd.               2-8-169         Anambra        Agro-Allied            37,866
1 9    lgwejlofor Farms              2-8-090         Anambra        Manufacture            20,240
20    Rossal Rice Mill Co.           2-B-112         Anambra        Food                    19.000
21    Ecoma Industries Ltd.          2-8-109         Anambra        Agro-Allied             31,000
22    Vantage Serv.                  2-B-16          Anambra       Agro-AIlied             38,133
23    SamJanos Nigeria               2-B-175         Bauchi         Other                   18,170
24    Azare Soap Industries          2-B-059         Bauchi         Other                   20,260
25    Dake Industries                2-B-060         Bauchi         Food                    34,940
26    Seyo Enterprises               2-8-107         Bauchi         Chemcal                 19,000
27    Verobam Ventures Ltd.          2-6-173         Bauchi         Other                   16,620
28    Romatocher Nigeria             2-8-095         Bendel          Stee                   36,540
29    Daniola Agro Industries        2-B-137         Bendel          Steel                  43,500
30    John Aghedo                    2-B-042         Bendel         Manufacture            105,880
31    Nusbra Nigeria                 2-B-094         Bendel         Textile                 32,340
32    Fred Freeman Invest.           2-8-134         Benue          Agro-Allied             20,500
33    Jalcon Ltd.                    2-B-057         Benue          Other                   34,010
34    Eunnyland Nlgeria              2-6-093         Benue          Other                   33,580
35    Cholison Org. Nigeria          2-8-148         Benue          Textile                 15,475
36    Royal Garments Ind.            2-8-150         Benue          Food                    16,579
37    Telvina Int. Ltd.              2-B-149         Benue          Food                    19.606
38    Ewa Pharmaceuticals            1-A-076         Cross River    Food                   366,000
39    Jase International             2-B-136         Cross Rivr     Textile                 14.500
40    Graham Enterprises             2-5-024         Cross River    Textile                 37,500
41    Usman Kozo Enterprise          2-B-061         Gangola         Fishing                24,450
42    Ida Juide Rice                 2-B-155         Gongola         Agro-Allied            11,842
43    Herollnk Limited               2-B-170         Gongola         Other                  16,900
44    Urea Feeds                     2-B-041         Gongola         Food                   35,960



- 37 -                            ANNEX6
Page 2 of 4
THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
LIST OF CANCELLED SUB-PROJECTS UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
Sub-                                                Amount
Project                        Economic            Cancelled
No.    Sub-Project Name                Number         Location        Activity               (USS)
45    Kaiser Paper Mlil              1 -A-078        Imo             Manufacture           406,119
46    Ohaji Farms Ltd.                1-A-039        Imo             Other                 477,900
47    Andobekge Gen.Ent              2-B-138         Imo             Steel                  97,826
48    Zion Foam                      2-B-050         Imo             Manufacture            35,290
49    Nationwide                     2-B-045         Imo             Chemical
50    Bonikke Nlgeria Ltd.           2-6-120         Imo             Food                   36,000
51    Everest Nigeria Ltd.            1-A-060        Imo             Other                 278,000
52    Erimma Foods Proc.             2-8-121         Imo             Other                  36,000
53    Eagle Superpack                 1-A-025        Imo             Other                 810.000
54    Agro Leads Glue                2-B-016         Imo            Chemical               125,000
55    Ro-Mon                         2-B-043         Imo            Manufacture            117,650
56    Northern Garments Industries   2-B-086         Kaduna         Steel                  114,560
57    Usman Lado Furniture           2-B-033         Kaduna         Agro-Allied             28,250
58    Village Pride Poultry          2-B-070         Kano           Manufacture             15.840
59    Halilu Enterprises             2-B-067         Kano           Food                    34,240
60    Adonal Chemical Ind.           2-8-165         Kano           Food                    40.000
61    Mess 25 Organization           2-B-068         Kano           Agro-Allied             13,980
62    Nasima Nigeria Ltd.            2-8-030         Kano           Manufacture             18,350
63    Alheri Tailoring Company       2-8-065         Katsina        Manufacture              9,500
64    Jabbama Company Ltd.           2-8-066         Katsina         Food                    7,900
65    Labb Nigeria Ltd.              2-B-064         Katsina        Agro-Allied             16,300
66    Ni'lma Restaurant Ltd.         2-8-063         Katsina        Textile                 17,240
67    Omosalako                      2-B-141         Kwara          Other                   15.835
68    Churchill International        2-B-172         Kwara          Other                   20,280
69    Odode Saw Mills                1-A-079         Kwara          Manufacture           694,390
70    Fashion Masters                2-B-099         Kwara          Manufacture             25,920
71    Andersen and Company Ud.       2-B-077         Lagos          Manufacture             21,040
72    Beepom Nigeria                 I -A-059        Lagos          Other                  259,000
73    Lakados Agro & Com.            2-B-125         Lagos           Food                   58,000
74    First Chemkials Nigeria        2-8-087         Lagos           Food                  111,000
75    Nisson Ltd.                    2-B-128         Lagos          Manufacture             18,000
76    Systemax                       2-B-044         Lagos          Other                  117,650
77    Abiodun Olaleye Syntheti Co.    2-8-083        Lagos          Textile                 98.760
78    Uliken & Bros. Ltd.            2-A-005         Lagos          Manufacture            160,000
79    Rena Educatlonal Products      2-8-130         Lagos           Manufacture            62,000
80    Angex Exclusive Design         2-0-078         Lagos           Chemical               41,460
81    Shetty Restaurant              2-B-129         Lagos           Food                   24,000
82    Morbiz International           2-B-132         Lagos           Manufacture            50,000
83    Samtonla Garments              2-B-015         Lagos          Textile                 82.000
84    Jaiye & Murphy Co.             2-B-012         Lagos          Textile                 75,000
85    Fountain Farms Ltd.            2-8-106         Lagos           Other                  39,000
86    ImH Nigeria Ltd.               2-B-084         Lagos           Manufacture            84,680



- 38                               ANNEX6
Page 3 of 4
THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
LIST OF CANCELLED SUB-PROJECTS UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
Sub-                                                Amount
Project                       Economic             Cancelled
No.    Sub-Project Name               Number          Location       Activity              (US$)
87    Aveg Oil Ltd.                  2-B-164        Niger           Agro-Allied           20,000
88    Obadaki Industries Ltd.        2-B-073        Niger           Agro-Allied             9,320
89    Adsons Board Mill Nigeria Ltd.    2-B-163     Niger           Agro-Allied           33,600
90    Al-Kyap Nigerla Ltd.           2-B-159        Niger           Agro-Allied            9,733
91    Zaguru Co. Nigeria Ltd.        1-A-014        Niger           Agro-Allied          680,000
92    Crisma Nigeria Ltd.            1-A-071        Niger           Other                324,262
93    Enuworo Farms Ltd.             2-B-075        Niger           Manufacture           22,130
94    Akoky Feedmill Ltd.            2-B-074        Niger           Other                  10,250
95    Rak Investments Ltd            2-B-072        Niger           Agro-Aliied            20,970
96    Nigpak Enterprises             2-B-003        Niger           Food                  100,000
97    Inga Oil Enterprises           2-B-146        Niger           Fishing                12,780
98    Musbab Enterprises             2-B-162        Niger           Agro-Allied            21,200
99    Solo Oyowale and Sons          2-8-076        Niger           Textile                31,680
100    Kad Engineering                2-B-161        Niger           Manufacture           12,000
101    Nnawo Rice Mill                2-B-160        Niger          Manufacture            20,266
102    Al-Amin Construction           2-B-156        Niger           Manufacture           11,842
103    Rudnev Nigeria Ltd.            1 -A-068       Niger          Agro-Aliled           307,060
104    New Tech. Dev. Co.             2-B-157        Niger          Agro-Allied            28,000
105    MKI Enterprises Ltd            1-A-024        Niger           Agro-Allied          425,000
106    Kogi United Co. Ltd.           1 -A-008       Niger           Agro-Allied          704,600
107    Manuty Agro Allied             2-B-002        Nlger           Manufacture           75,000
108    Sharu & Co. Ltd.               1 -A-045       Niger           Agro-Allied          300,000
109    Dakalo Enterprises             2-B-145        Niger           Agro-Allied            13,325
110    Adamu & Sons Ltd.              1 -A-036       Niger          Agro-Allied           300,500
111    Tailaag Ind. Ltd.              2-B-097        Ogun            Agro-Allied           36,540
112    Osunijolu Obijosun             2-B-133        Ogun            Chemical              72,500
113    Pamaque Kaolin                 2-B-014        Ogun           Manufacture           100,000
114    Oobas Nigeria Ltd.             2-B-098        Ogun           Textile                37,000
115    Unique Paints Ltd.             2-B-144        Ogun           Agro-Allied             19,393
116    Nuracon Motors                 2-B-096        Ogun            Food                  34,000
117    Underwood Industries Ltd.      1-A-038        Ondo           Chemical              425,000
118    Fellai Agro Industries         1-A-031        Ondo            Steel                500,000
119    Nita Farms Eng. Ltd.           1 -A-069       Ondo            Other                385,530
120    Jab Industries Nigeria Ltd.    1 -A-051       Ondo            Agro-Allied          354,000
121    Fardocks Farming Products      1-A-041        Ondo            Agro-Allied          268,300
122    Philip & Samson                2-B-104        Ondo            Manufacture           32,590
123    Olaf Nigeria Ltd.              2-A-003        Ondo            Agro-Allied          162,500
124    Amos Enterprises Nigeria       2-B-026        Ondo            Manufacture           29,350
125    Bafalco Fin Serv Ltd.          1-A-018        Ondo            Steel                950,000
126    Peldeg Nigeria Co.             1-A-049        Ondo            Chemical             587,200
127    Fostock Fisheries              1 -A-052       Ondo            Fishing              485,000
128    Dipmo Nigeria Ltd.             1 -A-053       Ondo            Agro-Allied          300,000
129    Fellylove Ind/lnvest.          1-A-027        Ondo            Manufacture          650,000



- 39 -                         ANNX6
Page 4 of 4
THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
LIST OF CANCEI I    SUB-PROJECTS UNDER LOAN 2376-UNI
Sub-                                              Amount
Project                      Econornic           Canceled
No.    Sub-Project Name              Number         Location      ActMy                 (US)
130    Makco Nigerla Ltd.           2-8-102        Oyo            Textile               36,780
131    Bimaco Steel Products        2-B-089        Oyo            Manufacture           98.760
132    Remakad Ind.                 1 -A-075       Oyo            Manufacture          118,000
133    Junkol and Co.               2-B-143        Oyo            Agro-AlIled           15.040
134    Abitos Tech Service          2-0-142        Oyo            Chenical              24,934
135    Oyeniyl Ind. Ltd.            2-B-101        Oyo            Steel                 13,100
136    Chill International          2-B-108        Plateau        Food                  33,000
137    Dankpa Enterprises           2-B-154        Plateau        Food                  19,737
136    Orlya (Nigeria) Ltd.         1-A-001        Plateau        Agro-Allied          800,500
139    Bahir Nigeria Ltd.           1-A-005        Plateau        Steel                870,000
140    Highland Ventures            2-B-040        Plateau        Agro-Allied           31,170
141    Jadld Ltd.                   1 -A-002       Plateau        Agro-Allied          977,500
142    Continental Polish           2-8-153        Plateau        Agro-AIlied           12,631
143    Delta Palm Ltd.              2-8-151        Rivers         Manufacture           19.737
144    Sakinns Nigeria Ltd.         2-B-031        Rivers         Other                 37,500
145    Edinumu Nigeria Ltd.         2-8-152        Rives          Agro-Allied           14.079
146    Jonnac Food Industries       2-B-091        PJRws          Manufacture           13,330
147    Dilomat Ventures             2-8-092        Ries           Food                  20,000
148    Galandi Bado Enterprises     2-8-071        Sokoto         Agro-AllIed            8,390
149    Jenaco Nigeria Ltd.          2-B-028        Sokoto         Manufacture           2,00
8.007.445
No. of States Represented:          21
No. of Sectors Represented:          8
No. of Total Sub-Projects          149



1. 1. , , I...'','', ''I''. 1.1111,I.. . .1 III . .I
.. -I.. .11 I .1 .11. ..I1... ..1. ..I I .. I .1
....-.1 ...... -.1 ... I 1-11'..'''.1111'', -11I,I . . . .,IIII . -. I
II . -.-....... - - 111-1 - -..... 1. .- II1.11,I. ...''ll.I.II. II
.I. I.-I.- -,. . ... ......... . ... .I, ,- I.......II. I'' ''
.... - ... ....I..'' I-- - .1 - 11 ... 11 I II.I IIII1.11,I
.. - I - , ,. -, -11 I...... .. I'll ... 11, . I,..1 ... .1 11I. I....
... I---.,I... - 11 I...... ''.  . ..IIII..-.... 1.11
.1, , , ,.- -.... I'll.''..'' ... --- ... I 11 'I'', , , . . I I, ,..I, II I'' . . I - ''
.II  - .. .- I-- 1. -1. .  I--, .IIIII'll, - . 11 11
.... . .I. 1- . - .. .-.1. .1 .. .... . .......... 1.1-1- -'. , -... - -,..,., '' , -
I  . .I . . .  -- ... I .11--- .1- -.11 .I --....-- .I11 11 .
...-I - ---... ... . .. ......  . . -1 .. ..... , .-  . , . .....  .,-I,.,. ---- I...  I-- ..... 1.1- .... .... - .- . .. ...-.1.1.11.I.1.I.-11
..- .... .- -... ". . . .... ...  . -.... .I..'' ...... ''.   .11, 11.1. "I.  11, I ''..,I-''I'll'' I .11I
II- -1.1 .....-....... 11.1. - ... --.''. I . . I I'll .II 11 .11,I-
..II- --l-1--l- ... - ....... - .. - ... ..-.. .....I....... , ''I . ... .....I.1 I ''I-, , '' I'll
. .. .... I- -.1 ....... - --- .......... -  ---.1 ..III.
.. I'. -...-. . ... ........ ...-. . . . . . . .. .......... .- . .  -- ..... - -1- . - -,-- ''
.,. -.- . . ...  .''... ..... 1. ''. . 1.1-1- ...  I.- 1. I ....I .  - -.
I,. --- .........-..... -.. ..' .  - . . . . 1. I 1. I..... ....... .- ... ,  -- ... , - - , , 1. .. -- . .. .
.1.1 .-.- ..... .........I......... ....... ....' ... I-- 11 - I-- . -- - ''..-I II..  -.
'' - I .. -... . .... .......... ..-I-1-1-1. .... -.......  - ...-. ....-.-.. ... .. --  - - ''  I --  
.... . .. .. . I. I I ... I. - -  . - ... .. ... .. ........I........ - I . -... I - - . I... -l''... I I.III
III -- -........ .. ..................-.. .... .... ..... . .. ................ .I. . . ........... . .. . . . .......I.. . . ........ . . ,1. ---  .1 11
.. -- 1-1-1.1-1- ...........I...... --..... I....... ... ... .... .. ..'' ...I... 1.1-1- ..... 11.1.1.11 11I..'',
.... --- ........ .1.1-1 ......... ---- ......  - --- ............... . -......... - ", ,. '' , '' '' ....-... ..... -'-.
..".".1-1-i : : :...".::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!::::::!::::::::: - - -  -- - --::':_:::::j:
-1 . .................. . ............................ -....-I ...I.. .......I...-... -....... . .......... ... .1--l' 1.11.1.......,.....,.....,.....,...,.......,........'I .... ............. -: :::- :!-::::::::- ..... 1.1-11.1 ... I---
-- I", ,.".".....,.,........,.,.......,. I.....,...,.......... ..................... . ..  . I I I ...... .... -.................4... I I ... .. . ... I. .-"..'......".q.' - I .: ' ]:4i. : I 'Wjnaqz ]:  
..................... . :::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::!::!:::
-.1.1-1.11.1 .......... ....,,:,, ..... I....... ..... ... .... 1.11-1- .. .........I... -'. OWTbol. ':X::!:::::W.::::::
1''.....,.".,."..,.....,..",,....,.....,..,...I ........ .. .......I...... ...... . .. . ........ -::::Xm::r 1rXX::: ::m -1-I...
-. ....-..... --.. .. ............ ... --%, ... ..... ..... ............ ...................... I-- . ... ..... . 11''.. '"' - '' I ... ... I
.I.....-....I.. ........ .... ......I.... - - -...... . ... ..........-..... .. ....... ... -.1.11-1.1.1-.... .. ..I.- I--
1-1.1-1 ........... .... --- ............................................ ...-.................... .. ..-...... I.- , , , '' ,. . I.... I.-I.. .. ..-
I.. .11.1. - ......'' .......................... ...... ... .......... ........... ..... .. ........ .... ... . - - . .... .. , -,. I.''. I--
-- -.11-1 ........ I.-I ........................... -- ................... ............................ I......... . .. ...----- 1. 1. - 11- -
11 .11 ...I. .............. ..... .......I.-I ...I................ .111-- .....I..... --- ... . . . ... ............ --- -...I. .... . ... -..-
. I I ''. ''. ... . -.. .- ... ............................... ............. .. ........... 11- -..'.. - - - .''. . I ..
''I'll., ...........I.......I........ . .................... ........ ..I...I.... ...- .... -.1-I.I.I.I.- . -  .I-- ---.  1. .-.-
... . . . .. . .. ..... .11.11 ...-... 1-1. ................................. ..........  ... ...1-1- --' - -.1 II ..... . .
-.--.- ...-. .-.... 1-1- .. .. . ...... ...... 1.11- - I.........
''.''I'l, ''..,.,.,''.",..,.....,....,...............; :: X: - ..l..... .:::::::::: :: . . .. ....
1. '' 11.1'..,.....,...,.,.."."........ ".'' . .... q ..::: ::::::::: --- ...  :: ::
.1.1 " I , -  ---'..,.......:::.::::::::;:,:: ........ .. . .....I...... - -.....-.... 111.1 1. .. I-
.1- .... ....... .. . ... ... . ... ............. .-- ''. 1''. ''''I'll ,-
................ .......... I... - -..... 11 .... 1-1. -.1-1. I- 1. I-- 1-1.
....... . .. ............I.... .. .... 1-1- ......-.... .-, ''''I .. .
-... ---, I......''.-, . . ....-- -II   I.... . .
,. , --...''... ---..l-::X:::X::q: ...... ....' .. ....... -..l..'..-. 1. I... I... '.-..'-.- .- .  1. 1-1.1.'. I 1. ,..... ..  , I I I  - I - . -1 I
1.11 -I.---.... .. ...-.......... .. .... .11
''-.. .. .... ....
...-. 1-1-1-.I.  . I I ...
. ,. ......
1.  II - I --- ....... ' :'.
. I-.1 ..... .. ..... ---q.".-...Vi . ....", ,,-,-I . .."
..1.1. ...... .'...
' '
.111, 111. -- . .....I.::: : : :: ... .. -.1......
'' I ''. 111. ". . ... ..' ..... ::::::::::::::::: .  I  I.,  1.  . ..- . . -.- "I I I I ''.  ,
1. I.. ..'...'....'  . -. ....... - - .1. - I.. I I'll II
-.... I  ''... .... ...I.....I..... ---- -,''''I.- ......... .. - 11  . I 1.11 .....
- - ..... -..... .................... ---  -11''I'll'' 11'',
II
''.I
-.... 11.1.1- .
1, - ... . .. ..... ...... . ..... .... 11 ......I........-. ..........I.. ... . F-:::4:: ..; 114-1'.I..'' .. .....
... ..... ... ...'---...-- ....... -.1-I...
I . .. ........... .. .. . ...................  . :::  : :::::::::::: :
..............
.. ... .................... ......
I.1. -I.-I.I.... ......."..,..,...."......... ..,.,.,.''..............,..............'.. . .. ...::::::M,61.. JOIA I!MlkI. .1
- 1-1-4-1- - .......................... ..s........ .."..,..,..........."...... -..... '. %'.- - 1.  . .  .4 .1 .11.
....,--... -.,....,. ..- .071T.Il A dI "--...
I         ..I...             ..              ...I I
,-.-.- ... . .... ... . --l'.....-I .... ''..... .....- .. . . I.-
-. I-- . .. .. .... ... .... ........... ..- ... --: - : - :: : : .-'. . -... -1---l'. ...-
1, -1-111 ..''.I.I.I.I....... ....1 I'll, ..I-
...-I -1 I....., .... ....-... -1-1-1.1.1-I....  11 .1 I 1. -,
 1, -, '....... I:..
.I:: I:]]
'
--  - - ....... -'-'.':.:::x x:.  X '.'...'.-.'... -.11-I..,..,..,..,.,.......",..,...'"'.,.,.'II
I. I '' ''''' :
....I. ,1.11,
 .. ''.- .1 I I-.. .... ...........-I- ...I
.,..... ................
1-1-1.1- - ...,':.I:-.. . .,..................,.,.,...,....I .....  -1-1.1''." I .- . I... .mx,
. .. . --.. ., I.....  . .I.: :.:;* .
--I-...-'----,--. 0* "." I........ --l'.......... .l.- .1,..."..'...::...StlE/zil.](4
1, I I.., . I.''. 1. --. -, ': - S.  I " -, .- ...'".1-1.-.-I,
-.11. -..'.... ...-I. 1. .. .... ..I-:::::
''I'. .......- ....I........-.......I.... ..... ....... -...."......''.''.-.... .1.1 ... 1. ....- . .. ...I... 11.1- :p:x : .
I. .1. - .- . .. .. .... .. ............. ..-....I..... I....... I ---- ..... ... - -1 ... I-- . -  .  1. -1-1-1.
.. -.... .- .. .....-. . ................ .......-... . I...- .. -- - I 
.. - .. ... .. ........ .... 1-1 .....I..... .1.1-1- .. ......... I... II
...........1.1-1-::: .........-.1-1.1-1-I.I... - .-::::::::-:: -1 .... .- -......-....... ......'...'. ..,'. 1. ..
.. -- .. '. :.:i: .. "....',.. I.......
11 .K.. . :.:.:X:.::W:lr -:-;:'X-... ...-......... 14F.....q......, F-'... ',,'l.....'.'.-.'..", ..: . I.. .-P I . "  F-F
-.:..."-...:W                                    F':v:  :;  .....,   -                                                               :                   ::.  -  11.1.111,111, 1. I.  .'.'l".".'..'                                                                                                                                              -'                  "-      , I... I."..  ., .S atIV U -1-4 4"                             1-1-11''
I. .......'..-: ....-..1- .1 ........... ..I... - 1, ".-- .I.-.
-.'.'. .. ,,.,.,...,.,.....,...,.,..,..................'::-:.:::::::::::--- ... ::::.::::::.:::::.:::.:::.::::::::: ..... ..... I.- .... .. .....,..,..........,."::.:.::...,...,.,.,.,..,....''..,.........,.'......'.,.,.""....,.,.............................,.",..",.".,.,.
.1-111 . 1. . I......... .......... .. .... -- ......I.... .... ..I..... ... ... ...-. ............... .. ... -.1 ....... .... ... ..1.1
.. 1.  .. ... ::  .::.: :1:: :. .'' ''1.1-1.11 ,........  I... -. . -- -,...
.1 .....I.-- . ... ..... .-:..:-'..........' .... ..... .......--..I.m V:: ii  : : ".
.. . 1. -I..".".............,.......... .1 -.1- . .....  -.1 F,,.1
'' I . .111.1.11.1 ..... , -.... 111.11--.
............. .I I.... ''. .I.
.. .. ..I.-.
--  . ,, -- . ....l. "I.... '9011 EIZI .. - 1. . I . .1
-1-1 - - I.F.. 1.1"....1.1.1-b -F.F.:
11-1-1-1 11 : .b. ::::i'% i:ti: .m
I-I.- . ..... .1 -... ... .. ,.
.l.,..,.l'.1..,......"...: V, '. '. ... -.4-.-.-..I
I.I ....'.......- . ..... ::::- ::-:':::::::-: .:... ::7 ::. ,.. .. .................I.- ......I.--- ... 1. - I . ... ..  41 - I I... . . .I
... . ..........  .- .............. ... .1-1.11. 11 .........-I , -- -,.-- - ,..  - -  1.
-1 - -........................ -.1 .. .... - . . . .... . .......... .-1. - .1 -. .1-1-1-1  .
,     1.1- 111    .11.1 .....    .......                                                                               .         .        .                       '.                     -             '.'...'.---                                                                                       .         .-           ..    ..    ..  -                  1.. -                    I
.............-.. - .1-1 ...I....... 1......
-.......... ...-...-.. ---.-I-.. ....... . 1. .  .
.....- I.-I. .1 - : i: : .:X:X:X::::::::::::::::X 1".
........-.... . .. .-,qASUMT. m -MAL. - ..
..   .  I . .. I . I .... - -.... .. ... ... ...1-1- 1. ... -..
...-.... ..-....-::::::::::::::::':.
- -. ...... ''....
'' '
.........'........'...,...,.,......... -: .. ]]
11-,.. . ...:-1
:::, - ....Ot. , ."'. .........,.........,.,........"I -I",
-........ I--,9'.I  I-- -- . I.... -
..-..................-., . .. . .... I... 1-1.11.
........ I..'' . .... .-:;:-'.X.:.-.X- ...... :::::  :X:  ...,.,.,.",'..,.,.....,..,..'.1.1".""..,.",.,.I I 1-1-  --
..-:........ .."...zot I .1 .11.1 .- . .-1- 11 11 I
--- :- i  : :, i p !  i: , : im: -:::: XF... ......--'..'. ... I-- ....... -,''..",. . I. . . ..... .. I I'l-l"'.I
... . ....... -- ... -1 . .. .... 1.11 1''.. I - I.I
1. ...... ... -- - -- I-- -. I.... .I-- ...I
.--,.--- .... . .I... . 11-1- I......  - ''.II
.1, .... '' .1 - - - -.- . .. '..... '.I..
.........-.11, ... .-- 1. ... .11.1 ....... . . 1..... .1.I. ..
....... ....I... ..  I.....  ....... - ...
.                  1-       1-    ...        I... -           1.1'           .     ...         ...                           .......                                              ,                -     ... -                       -        .           . -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
. I ........'. - . ...
..
.-.1.I. -----. .-....-.....: :::: q.. .....-.- ... ..... -- ... - 1-1. '-- : 88/TEIZI.....O.".=.-X
I-. I.. I . -.....,....-..--... '....%.:F: ::
...l. : ..s
....- .... - . :: -.... '.".'. .-.-' . -11.11-'.11 ...I
...... -.1 .... ..........-I...'' .1.1 ..........-.........I.... - ...... . . ...   . I'll- .I... I . . 1.I
.- -.... ..... ...I.........I.. . ................. ..-...I...I..... .--- . . ..... . .. .-... ---.- . . . ....' .... .. . . .11 I....
--- ......-............................................................. ..-.......-'' '-
-  ..'', .... .. . . ...... --.:..-.::.--::.-...-..'' '-.. .: '&'b .  1". .. I
11 ...-........ .. . -. .... I'll, .......11
.'.......'...I.I.'.." ":: .". .....'..I.....,..,.....I........ . .-
.l.. 1. I I., .......'..".. 1. I.. 1.1-.1. X.,.- . .:q .. .. .. ;J'..: ............-... - ... -. -..:::::.:..:::.:. :'.
... ..-... ::::::::::::::::::;::.'..'..................,....,.m: :---
. . .... - . . ..- ...''
''...'....'........... Wsl'/DV90, .WM9 ". ". I.-.
. .. .. .  .         .        .        ..         - ....... I..                                                     I         I               I.                                                                                                                     ..1        .11 .... 1. ...                       -                            .. I..   . .   .   ..............:: : .:::::    :::'   .."   I ..,.....".,...,.,..,..............   ..'.....   -.::   : : :  &J O.-                      
'' ,. ....'-..- .. .....I.... 1. . ..... . ... . .. ..... I... --.--
I----- .. .... ..........I... ...''. ..... .---..'..'-- ... . ...''.11-11.I-1111 - - I.''...
-11---- .... ''....''. ...I... .... ....... 11.1 .............-...... .. .. ... I. -....I.. . .. . ......... .I'll,  .  I'll, ... 1-1 .1.1-
.11 ..........'.. .. "I"....''... ..' ... - . .'.....'.'. , I 1. I  , '' , , . -
-... 1-11 ....  . .- - .x... . ...........
"I I".-., .'... 1.  ........',..'.'... :.. : p:::::::::-::X:::::::: .... ''. ''...........F".''. . : a-
''    I.. 1.  -.... ..-... .. --:. .':: p: 8.. ............... . .'c I'll -- I .
. .-  - -.... .'..'I 1-1.
-... . . ........I...... :: ........'.'...'..4'.'41'.. I I.. .-0]:c "I'l-11.
I.  ...                   I-                                                                                                                                 .. .              .-. :: -                     :        :.         `:::            .: .                                                                                                                                                       1,             I  --...-                                  1,  1. . .  .. ...-.....  -.1
-.1-1- . . .... ..".."....'.,...':::::::::.:::.::::: .1 ... ITEIZI T.qyom
... 1.    :.: : :  : 4: P::r-'....., '..:':X::': .1%:...."..'.."...''..,.,...l,''.. - I'll, -.-
I.. , .... -:::::::::::X ....... I -.. .: ".'..'.'..-...-v-- ......... I. I I 1-1.1 ,  '11..-.. I... ,
........ . ....-................-............ .... ::X: ..... 1. . --.. --- I'll. ...- -
... --.- .......I..... I.- ... ...........I....... ..I... ... .. .- . . I.. ...........-..... ..... .. .. .. - --1-1-1-I...........,...,...,..,.......,..,..,.............,..,..,....'... -:::-' :::::.::., . ...
.''I'll-I.-I ............ -:::::::: - -X..'....".......'...." ............. '... - -. .'..' II
.. -,.,-- .I......................:
.....I... - -......... -.:' .:' .x, ' : j:j .:L.'tt.':j: '.  :: - --.II I I-. -, . ..
...........-............. .--... . -. .... .- I.11-
I..... ..... ..  ... ..'..................... :.. .... ........ . ............... %- ...........-II
. ..'........'... ..'.'.".'..l'.:.rix ............'......... .  i::i::ii.".:...'.:ii:li::..,:::0610 . 1. .1
............... %::Z. .... .. ..................... ........,., . . .............. CM09WIM.9.1-1-111  -111
.'... -:::X:X::' .................. :-'-::!:':::-!- :ip: ......... .............. .'".'...''.'....-
-: ,.X.:.:. - - - .. .... .............. ........................ .. ...
.1. .1. . -- .... ---....'.,,',- ... ...... ..  -- :.:.:: .. -.'.'.l"l'- .-'.'-.-- ,  ----
-..... .  -::: -:: :::::::::::::::::-. -''. ............... --.- -.1-1 I.- --.-...---. 1. I-- I. .-
...I...-....... .......'' .... ''. -- . - .::::: --,."
.....I... I...... .....I.... I-- .......... ..... ..... ..-, .1.
I. . . . ..................... -'- .... .. I.-...I.....I... -- ...... . .....-..........- .1 11 I.- .1. - - 1. - 
..... --- .... .- ............... - . ...'.'. I. ...... ................. .. I..... - ...............-,  '' - '' ... .. .. . - --   ,
1.111. -- ........-......................................... - -''
.... ... I.. ..... ::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-...-.-.,-.",.. .1.1.'..''...........,......,.,...,.... I  .1 ,.I....., . .. ...,....
I-.-.,:::ii:i]]i]]]]II]i]i]]]i]::.:.:.;.:.... ..1. I. . I
.. . . .:..::.:.,:.:: -:- '.....  - -'.. " ......."... . . '' ....... . ... ' . ........ ... .......  . '' -'-- ....
.1 :x: '...:.:.:.:.:..:::::::::::::::::!::::::::.:::::::::::..............,....,. ...... ........ -'. .... . ''................................ --..'. , '' .,.....,......,..''.....,., -'...."'....".'....... "....' . . . . . .' . ,.
.....' ....  x. ........ . ..................... ' '' ' '"'' ' '
.11 .... .......I.... -..... ' '' '' ........ I.... ... .I.- ...........I..1.- -.
. .- - I .. .............
I... . -...-..-.-...'......-."'-:':: .......... - ... ..--..-.-- ...I
. 11 ... I .11.11.1
.. ,..'... ::'-:- :.::::.:::: ................,....,...,."... -.'-'. .,.,.....,....,.......,.......,.,........"'... I... I. - 1. . 1. 1.11.1....,....,.,..,.,......... -
..... .:.:...::.................,.:..,ii.,i..;: ..-... ..'.. -   - - .
.JU ::-::'.::::: ."".".-..".'.....,........,......,......... .......,'..".'...........,........
Im.:X:1 ...I...... .,..,...,......................! 11...III ...............,......,...,...I .... ...  ... .............. .. --4.1"....I. . 1.
ii I mpa :: '' . - - - ,'...'..-q..'lq.."4'... ..... .....-F.."... .-I... ..'..'.'.'..'-...
-- .- ............... ....... .................-. . . .......-... I   I'',-..
.. ..  1. - - ..... . .................................. .. .. - --- ...-..... .. . I..- .....-......... .. .. ....................................... . ... .I.........I........... . :::::::::::::::::::]:::::::::  . 
--- .......................................... -- .........-..........-.
1. ::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::7::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: -.::::-:::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::.,.,...,...,...".." ..,.........'...,....".,.".........,.,.,.,., ... 11 .... .I1,
.... .,..,......',",',".."::::::..,::::::::::::::::!:::::::.m ..i;:l.....''.,...,.,....,.....".I ... ...--- .... . ..
-.--....'4'.'.'.., .............. ., QL . ..... ... ...................... . ........,....''.,..................,..,......,.....................,.".,..,.....,.....".'"',",''1.11,11I 1.11
I............".......,...".,.,....,.................. '' ......... " '."......,.::::::::::::::.:::::::::::.,-
.11, ... I-- .......... .-................I....... I...,...,... '.- ,.
... ...... . .- . . . ..................... -... ....::
'',::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::;::::::;:::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::!::::::;:::::::;:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::-::-::::-:::::::::: ..... IFF, I - - -.-.. 1. I.-4
.11I.I......::::::::::::::::.:.:::::.:::::.::;.: .-:.:.:...:.: .................,....",.....I.I. -:- " - -. .... I... I.''...."....,.,......'''"'. -1.
........... 11.1-1. ....... .... -: -::::::': 'l'::'!::::::::::::::::: : :  ::::::::::- .....'...'........ ................ -.-.- ... -- ...
:-                          ' :: :.:.:,:.:.:.:.:::;::::::]::::;::::                                                              :;:::                                                             ...'..                                                                                                     .........   -.                                                  .....  ........,...- -                                  -, ..... -                - - -                - , -1-1   -         I
1.111.11, - --..... -- .... ........... .. . ..... ....... .............. .. .--..- ...... 111-- .... .'..'... -I
.. .... -- .....................................-......... , , '"' ""  -.1 1.1.1111.
-. ...... ..-....... ... -- .. . ......... -- ... -.. - -... .. - -- -- I.- '' ''
.... I....... .................... ..... -.1 ................. :... .................. .. 1-1-1-'.-
... ...I....... .... .... ................. ,. . .. .. ...  ..
.. .... .1, ....I.....I.....I......-.-
I...., ................ ...... ..... ..,- I.. . .....
.-I..................,:a: Xi : :::.- -.
I-Il.b.-I . ... . ..... ........ :'.'.-'., .1. -l'..''I'', I'll, .
'.....-- I.... ....'.. ....,..........-.u.m.Mu.m..,M,. 7PI.M.1-19V - I 1.
--. -. ....................:i... 3....Z....qI.M.i:,ot;ounr:i,.:i:i : :
-I.- ... .. ........... - -.-. :::: ::.: : :: k::::::::::::::: .4--1--l-
-, ,- -.......- ......... ................ ..... ..... ...I.... "..''-... ... --..-
.. ---- ............ 1- ..... . .......'.1 -'
.... ..-......... ... -- ... . ........ .. ....
. ............. ... : :'. . -'..-......-
V pq &:10 : ..
-.1111 ........ ........... -1-
... ... .. .... .--.
.......'-.'W -:.j am.:: OS ... :.a,. . .- .11' "-'. -
- .......... :: V,i:i:.l:i]]]]  1-1-
. --..... ...... .. .......... . .:::: , ''
----- ... -.. '" ' "" ' a
I.- '. 1. .. . ...... S " ", , " ,,,,,, "",:d ' 'a'' ' ''
.... .... '....'. lv':: !! --.---
,..........................', . I It
---.. I-- ....... .... ............1 ... 
.....I.... ..........-... .1 I, - . ..-.-F.
''F.--- .. ..............  I..;.x.!,::7::::::
-          -        .1.1.1-                   1 ...-              ....  ............. ..... .... ......                                                                ..                                                                              .         .......                .. .%.,."...." ......................,  -     -  1 .   X .   -    ::'-::--:.:::::-:::-::X -!   ........... ...                                   ..              -               ,      -    -        ......        I
-........ . .. ... . ......................... .......-....... - -:...-.... ..''....' ..... 1-1-1. ........I.....I... .. ..... . .. .. . ......................... .--......--- ... -.1 .........  . 1.11-- I
..,...,....,.,,11.11.1'..........."......."......,......,........,...................I :: ,:.,:::::::::::.:::::::!::::::...""...,%.,....'...............,........,.,.,.........,."l.,....,.".,............''....,.,...".".",..,.".I
..... ....... .......I..... .I.. . .....I........ . ....-.....-... .. ..I. . ........... .I...........
::::::....1.11.1l.l.l..............",'.....,.,.,...........,....,....".....".... ...........'.F.''. ''.......I., ... ...................................,". - -. .- . - ..''..........1-1.1- - I... - . .-I...-I I 
...' ....... .I.... I. ......I............ .. ... - I - 11.1.11
.... - - I  -   -
........-X :-   : -::X::-' . . - ' - -
... ... ::::: : :::::::::: ::::::::::X ::- -'
.: : :: ..... .............................. ..... -...... -.......''. """'."...'.".....',... -:: :: ': .. ...... -- ..  - ...'' I-- - -'
.1 ......... ''....'' .... ....... ....'', .......... .--- . ..... -.-I...--.1-1.1-.1-1 ....... I-. -11 ............... _-- -... -- ........-....
. .......                      .    ....                 ...... Y '.., .......                             .       ................                                ...             ...............                                 ....          ...... ::X             ::::: :                                                                                                                                       -                         -                 ...   "                                -
...-...-..-,.,...,.'..'..."......,.::::::::.. ..::::]::::::::::::::::]:::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::; - ....:..:::::;::::!::::::::::::::::::.,.....".,..,..,.,.,................-.'..,.......-: '--- 1.1-111-1.1-11F.- ........ -.''.. ., ""
..,.....,.,.",,.,............'...... I ..;.::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ......"...'-  .. . . I I .. I I.... .I I I ''. '. I I , I-. ''. , .-.1''.......-F....-
- - -'..'.,...."'.... ......'.' ........... . I.... 1.11- ... .I . . I.... .' ...............,.,.,.,.,.,.,.''..,..'........,....,....".,....",.,.. .... I....,...,.......,...,.,...,.,I."...'',,.'"''',.,.,",,'I.I., 4- ".1.4b",...."I'l,"....
............"...",."".".".'....,,.- ... ... I . ...... I-I.- ........... ::: -:' " - :::-:: - -- .. - - - -- . ... . . . .. ....... ........ . . ........ ... .'-'.F'.'..'..-"'.-
................... ......  ,'. .'.....,.......".......'.."... - :; . ::.::o'::. ".::. .'' ''
...... ..... -I''..''. ... 11.1 ..... .. .......
:::-- . .. ... ::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::,."-........ . ... ..... - ..'l'--..'l'--- ''I'll''- -1 - ..
.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::]::::::::::::::::::::: .::::,::::::!::::::::.:,:::::::,:::::.:::::::::::::::::::.::: I..,b'-,.,, ............... ..........-.......... I.".
................................. ..... --.--.1.1 .............. ...'' -.1-1-1-1 ...... 1-1- I.. 1-1.1.11.11-1
-........ -.1-1 .....-..... ..... ." "' '' ' ' '"'-........... .... -..... -----, - '-, I. ... ...... ..-
.....I........ .. .... ... ... .... ......... ........ ....-.......I... .... ...... .. ... .................-. . .............. ...... .I11.11: . --- .......
'"'' '''
-.......... ..................... ...".... .................................. -.' - ..".........,....,................'..,.......,........I -,''....'.'....... ........'.,'....'.... --.' -' - " ,.'......'.. .. . .  .. , . - . I .1 . I.... ...
......... - - -'. ... ......  . . .11.1-11.1 II I. . ..............
................. . ......,.."..........,.....,..,..,.,%.,.,.,......."..,.,.......,.:.:.:.::.:.:::::.::::::.::: :: ::::'::-::: - ' - ..........'%,."..'. .'.."-'. . . I .,.".,."....,.'.....".....,.......... .  I. . ..... 111.-.'  ' " "....F.'..''d.
,.....,.,..........,.,.,.,..,...,...,.......,........,...,......, ':: .::. '.:.'.X.'.'.: .: : ::::: .:..,..::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::;:::::::""...,...,.,...,......,......,.,....".....,.''. .- .1. , . . ..... 1.1,
.... , ,"....'... ......... -...' - , " :: ': : :: :: X. .. ...... .. II-.... 1. .. . I - . I I  ''... I I - ..
.................-.1.1, --.'-........... 1- - , , .. ..: -,.:::::.:::::: ::: ......'-'...... ....."...,.......,........'........................,.........,......... -.'..... I........ ..-.. ,.. . . ... . ... .. ..... ...'....'....  . .....''..'' ... --.,.,....- .1.11,11.11. . ...... - ..
... -" -.. .... ... ... I ... ..  .. .... I......I..... .. 11 . . . . ....... .. .-. . .. ...... ..I
..... .' ....-..' . ..... . . ..................... - .-. .. ....... ... .. .". I,. 1''. 1, -  - - , II  -....'.-I "I"'...,
,.. .. ............ :-.'.::- :::::w: ::::::::::: ....... I-- . .,
:::.:::::::!:::::::::::::::::::4 ..................... ...... :.. ..:. .::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.''.
-... .......... ............................ - -:-::-!-::-:-:-:-:::-X: ::::: :  :X "....-."' ". .1, ".-I..11 ..... .........
.................... - - ....................................:.....I....... .- -  . 1.....I........
1. -. ..... ..... .- .......................... .I.................. ........................................I..... . .. ..... .. I I....... . ... .. I'll ... I-, -
......... I-- . ..............I.......I........... .. ......................... -- ............................. .. - . I.......... 11 I..., ... ..,
...................... ............................... I ..........I........... ........ ... I ........... ..11 . ........... .. . - '' - I-
............ ........... ........................... - -1- 1-11.
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::,..,....".,............'...............,.....,........,................I .....I...... .'' -...-................ .I.....,.,..".........''.."..".. -- 11 : v ODU;"=n
...... ................ . .: ." ":::::.---:: . ..... .. ...... .... ....... ., , ..'  , mi:.x
1-d-F.'.......'...... - --.--::--:.:.:.:.:.::.:::::::;:.:.::.:.::.::.::.:.:,:.:.::.:::::::::.:::.::::::::::.::::::::::::.:.,:,:.:":.::.:.:.:,:.;:.:.:.: .".....,.,.",.,..,...........,......"''''.......',..,...'.,.,:,:.,:: I . -. .... ..     I  -:-X:
.....................',,.,..,...........,.........,............,.,........,.'............................................. ........ , - :.;:': '---.- ...I.I... .........I..... .I. . .... ...... - I -...... -.1
.............. .................... .... ........ ...-........ .... ....... ..... ... - - II--- --.
..' .... .... ........ .... ..... ...... ......... ........................................ ::::....:::::::::::::::::::!::...,.,......",.,.,,...,.,.,..". .......-... ...,.,,.'...,.......I..... I..,..,..........,......",."" - - .'--.'.'l'--.'-'l' ....'',-.1-1
- -......-............ ............. . .. .....  -...............I...........  .. 1.1-
''. - - - ...'........ ... ..... ... ....I..................................I..... --- - -- . ... ..... I....... . - 11,11.1 I-- .... -11
............. .....- ....... ........... -1- ..... -'.... - -.1-1 ..... ......................' ... ......... -- .... - . . . .. . ......... 1.11., --11.1-I..'' ''
I.......... 1-1 . .. . .......I.....I... .. . ... 1-1-1 ................................ ,- - -:::,:X:::X:'-:.:, .......... ... ........... .'......'...... - 11 .'....'.' ... .. .. .---,.....,...''
..... .......... I... ...I.................... . ...... .. - 1- .....-................. ... .: -:::b:::
.............. --- - -.- ... ................. ........................ . " -" "'-
I.... ... -- .......... ... .... . ...........I.... ..''.1-1 ..... -- ............ :-' -- ...... .-- ......... . ..... .  - -..... .: ......... . . . .... ......... .. ......... -- ..".
-...........................I....I......... .. .................... %'.- ............... ,-......._ . . .. ......... %..
.. ...................... I.- ....I...........I....I:xr:-...................'. .. -.''..''......"'. 11-111- ,... .......  '' .....,,.,.,.,".."",.....,......1%.
.......- ... ..."."..,.,....,......,...,...........,................,....."..,.".1,1......::::::::::;::.::: ....: ....................... - ... 1.11 ...... .. --l . . ........--.-  --l.-'.l----'-'.. ...1.1
-----."..'...... I..,.,.,...................."...,.,.....,..'........,........,................:.:.:.::::::.....,.............................,.,.,.,",.""..I ... -..4..-".4.'...--- ".1'...'', ..... I..,..",..ll,......'..IllI.''.'"'.,. --...-'-.---4-
I...I. . ......I........ 1-1-11--............- ......I...-............... ' '' '''''
,.,.".,...,.,..'......,...''................,..,....,.....................",",......".....".,..,...' ....... ..... ..- -.. . -.1 I I.. ''I.I.."".",,..,.I.'''.1.1  '--,,'' - I.- I .........-...'
'- ..... .. .......-..... :... ......,.........................................,.. - . -.1-1. ......-1-    1.
'' . . . . ...... 1.:.... ........--.. .''''- '' ,1-4-1-- ---.-.'--
.1.1.1..........,....,.,.,..:..::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.......,...,....,....,..'I ....I..... ..'..'......", ...................... .. .  ''..
..11.1 ............ ...'' .... ...... ....I........ I.... '::X::::::::: : ::: I -1. -1--.11.1-1.1- -- --- ....
...... .. ... I.... .......- ... ...'' .... ................ ... ..... ............. ... ......... ....... 1-111 I-- ......... -- - ... ''.....-.- ... ... . .I.''..,.". --  11 ............
:::.:X:X: .. ........--::'::.::' .  - ::...l%jsl9T.'.'.'l.. . 1. 1-111"'I'l-'I
:::: .....Swl.::..-:...:..:.:..:.::.::.:,.:., %-:::::':::.:-..'....  I. -.. -.... --- ...... : -'.-
.. - ,.. sr. ::.: :iiJsq.l ].,::::i]..]% 1-1.1
.--.-..'.,..' .: --I.. 1.  - 1. I 1-11
......-P --'-'..''..'.'...'.. ,. :X:.:::::::::-..... .Li " Z.,. - i- ...-.-......- I I 'I',",,
... ---.- .... . ..-zj.....,....l--
...'.....--..,,....'.." .. ....... 11 ......... - - . ,'..,'14 , I "-- 1. I . I.. 1-1.1-11-1-  -". I'll-' IW%:jo-%'.-
,..'.......................'.,..'.."..,.,.,....... .... .. ..... .. ....''.1-1-1 ... -1 ... .. ::i: . .... --"....- ... ----...-'-....l..- ..... . . .I....-.. . ... -",---""-- I... .....
-................ ..... I... ......................I...... .. .:..- .: ...... --: I......I.. ......... " ".....'..,".".",
.:..-.:.'-...-.vW ...... --- .. .......I......' ' ''I.. ..... ''I'll-1.1- ...,...''
..  ..... -.l...--'.-..-..-. - .1 ... '''. a I-..
-.-:I11.11.11. -1- I I I MW
-....,.''.-I
'' - '' '' 1.-.
,....... . P.: . :: ,$....:::.l'..I...I..:.:.:.:::::.:i:Wt 1:i]ooz '- -  wm - -
.....' .1-1- .. ... --.- ..I-.-.,.
I:::ii-.:.':: 6 ;: ::::p::;-:: :X::.:::':.. .. . .H4.
..........I....... ... .... ... ..:.:..: ...:.........-.... ...': ... .:::...: ............. ::.: - - .. -, ....'..I., .tfD; :-:10 4 . ...... ...... 11 ....... .. . ...IF'.4 "... - I I I . .. ....
... 11 ...... -.1 .....I..........:. . .......... .. ...... .. .'..:.::::::X:.: ... ,-.. . . .. ........... ... %---.- ....  ..... - ...... .....
..........,............,..",..".,...............................................,..,............"................,......:.:::::.::.:::.:.:.:.,.,....,.,...'.'."."'..............,... ..................'',.I...., .... . ....... . - ............ .... ........ ..-...... -.1.
-.......... ..... .. . .............................. .. ... . ... .. .. . ... .. ' .:::.::::I :::--: ..,......,"........,...',.,.''.,'I ... 11 . .. . . ....... ..  1-11 ... ..-    -. ...... ........ 1.
I.......... .... ...... -- . ............I....I...I. .. ........... .. ... ....... .... "'-..' ........ .. .. .. --  .1-1 ... ........ . . I . - ". 1. .'
''.''. ..1 ............ ...... 1''.... ..1-1-1-1.1 '.
,.."'.."...............',.,..,.,...''.,..".,...,....."....",."....",".".....,. ............-......... .::::':. ...... ---. .......... 1-1. . I ----....
........"..,..........,............................".....,..."....,........:::.:::.::.::::::.::::::.::...............,:.'',.::.:::.:, ' '- .I . I I - -  .,'... ..
- ................"",",...,.,..''..-...,........I ........... --1-- ...... .:  -:-'-:-X- :::.,.,.,..........,..,.'',,,.I........ ...'-1-1--d" ....... 11.11,11.11II - . 1.... --......- .... ..... .....-I.... ....... :.:.:.::.,:!:::::::::::.:::::::.I..--.
.. ..... .. .. -.....-... ...... ..... 1.1-1 ...I..... .'' ............ - - I'll., ......... ..  1. - I -.. .... I..... 1.1111, - I'll I. 1. I...... . .
"::::::::::::::::::::::...:::::::atc6g.,I.:i::::::::::::::::::::]li::::::..4L,.r'I :-:;:::-::-:-::-::':-I... ... -",.':' ,: ..I
- .-.- 1. ....' % ....,..,.,...",,,.11,.
.......... .. .. : .1.1 -l..--.'. I.''.... jdljl]
:X-'-. ool,.::!:::::i:::::::::::.:::::..:,-,.,. *l:::
:'..!XM% :::I.  .q%V#'.'. :1  I I - 1:1-F 116114.- .. 4"O.UP"..'I"..
I.. .. .. ::::::::::::.::::.:.::::::,W!k:: ... _::::::::::X::::.. -11 . 11 I-- ...  1-1-11-1. I '.- -....
.....- . . . ..... .. .............. .. -.1. I.. ......... ................. .......... . . -........ -1- - .-  - .... - ., I ..11 ... . I-- . . .... ."'...
.. . ...... ..,.;.....'- .................. ...... 1---.- ... ..... ...I'l.'..,"...
,. . . ..i..: X:. .: .::.:.::l:.;.X. I, cot. --,-. 4 -.
::X' 4 -... 11 ....- ...........-.- . .j:]:::X::::]::::] :: :j::  . .....
:::::::x:9:'..'..'...'.'... "' 'F.,,....-..::]:::::::::::]:i:::::::i:::::]:iOT.I...,.
.-  1. . I ...... ......,.....'..'-.".I
:-'.4'.:.'.  117", .. -I.... .....'...'-.' ........ , ....I..... ..I.. ...I111141 '...-
...I. ...:,d 1. ::::: : :  : Xv::: '..'-.."'
: .. . % ,.:.":::..,:::..:::":::".:::,.Oto.,::99.: :::::.:::::::;:.:::::.$o.."., -'...'--.'.-F.-. .4% ',.. - .I..  virst: :X::::::::::. :: :::::::::.::;:  ! ou, Rd.........'.......... ..... - --' . ........................... 1-1-1.1--.- ...... 1. - . ..,.,..,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,,.,...", --4--l-l- . -.1- ... -'.'....-.
.,..,.,...,....'''.......'...,.,............,.,.....,..........,.......'.....,....,..........,............'........'............... .....::  : : :: i. I  I I  I I.. ''..' ...- ..... I--  1. -.1- I.-
.......... 1. .. .. . .. .............. ......--- . ..................... :::X.:.:.'::.:.-X:i: ...... .:-:::::::-  ...- -.1 ....I-
-. .....-....I.. ... .-..........-... 1. ::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::: ...... ''"..::::::::,::::]:::..::.:::::::....I ..... .,..,."..,.,.,.."..'...,....".,I.""..",.'',.."...,,l'..,,,I.'I -.1, ".-I-11.1"
,. ::- X:X X  X::::::::;:::-:::::::-::-:- ........... .:,..,...."...........,....... ... ... I . -
...I.......... ..                                      ....    -            11.1-                -        -          i              -         -       .....                                        ..                                 ':::::::::::           :                                  ...............'.......... .    ...                                           ....           ....  :::::::::::::;::.:.:.:.;.:.                                         -                               ...
I:.: .:-.'%.:...'.. ... .... -t-' .I.I...".....'...... j::::]:::]:!!:::::]:::]:!:]!::-........'.........I ..... -.-..'.....'.'.'.,'.'l
............ xv:.': ...... -.- ... t. -,.
.. ... ::::::: .. ... -1-1- .....b....... .. ..o...;.......it ... ... . ........  ..... 11 .. . .... .. 14'.....
-'.....' tt ...........t'..-:--l%-'--- I.. ' :
...... . ...... 1.  I  I I  I I -., .,
." ......'..... ::.:.:;::j:l:]:]]li]i]- 49 ...,"....,...,  .'- -':i: ]]]]
... ............ .::-I ... - ... 1.
M
.....".'...'..... -i -II.. ..... .l.'.-.'...'..'.'''. ,""I.I,,,'ll'.,.I.I.:.,...::::::..:::
:.............iP                           .W          J .,];.'.....                                                                                              ..:..: ....:.....                           ....              .           'i    k               il     ....-..'--                   -                                                                         . ......'....".,..,.,..,......,.,.,.,"..........   ... :9                                         .
:: :: : '''-' ' ' - ' - ' ".......... - - ... - .. - - -- .. ' ' - ", ::... :.......,.....,.............,.-...-,..-..-........ . . .. ... .... I.I..........'.I.,.,.,,,'..... ...-I-14-14
:::::::::::::::::7".,..,.....,.......,.,.,.........."...."...........,...."...,.,............,....,.....................'',..,.::::::.::.::....:.:..:,:,::::::::::::::::: .......I.............. -'.-'.'.--.' .- 4-- ...... --',.- .... -...,.........-.
........ .................. I....'' .... ..-.. ............ .......I...... %... - ,-......' .....'', --- --- ...,.."".,..".,..'..".,.
....I. .....I......... .'....'.''.- ........ '. :, ..,..." .....-.:::::: ::::::::' UV
. .. I... I.. I I . 1. I  - I....-...'-.'.'...'d...'. .-',:,.: .. ..... ........_..'',.UN.I.I.Q.11i;iii:ii, ....-.-..'....-'.......
....    , :::::w::: w::::w-                         -::e                                                                                  ...,.,........................                                                                                                                        ..- .    I  1,     .1 I               I   '     ,      I   -    ,       I , .     ..   .   . ..
..'....,...''.."..,.,,.,.''.,'I'l .. --- ... .....,.".,..""....,....,...".....,.................,.... I I.::.........',.",.,.,.,...,. .... ....,..... ............. -"'' .... .... -----....-..-' I., - ---. ....I.I.I....l."..".
............I... .... .'. '- ............... -...- .... .. ''' ' ''.1. .......
:..,...".,...,..."...,.'....I ................. %.,............................,........,."...: .I. . ...... ....-I.- ......'.'.. I.... I 1- . . ... ....1.1''
................. ............. -:::::;::::-' .: ....... :::::::::: :: ' ' ' - . . ..
.. 1- .....-...... -.-'---'l..'.',.-- ::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::: -.. -. -......'..''.'-..... '..-..'..'..
I. I.... - ....... 1.1.11 ................... ....- -.- ..... .'' ''. 11 1.11 -... .. ..
"..........,.,.".,.,,.,".,.,1.1. ,.,.,.,.,....,....,...,..,.,.,....,....,:....::...:.:..:,..:.:,.::::,:.:::.::::::::::::::.::::::.-'. - ....''.4'.'...
.................... .. . -.... -.. .,................................. -:X:::X:::., .................,.........."...,..,...."......,.,.111.1l.l...'' "..-I-1.1-1 I.... ...'..
....... ''...'' ... ......- .............. ::::::::X::::::::: .........,........,.,..,:.:.::.:.:::.:::::::::::::::: : :::.:::: .............. I  . I . I....,....,....,.,.....,.,."",., - I ". -I..,....,......,..,..,.",...................
I.I.....I.I.F.......... ..4-4.1-.... .. ...... . . ................ "' ,- I.- ................. - -11 ... - I. . ............. 1. 1. I.. I..  I.... - I.. - I
...             .           ..............                                     -          - -              -         -        -       - -       -            ::::::::::::::::::::.:.:.:.:.:.:.-                                                    -           -          .                                      .............                                .     .-                       .         -                 -     -       -        -             I.                ..    .    ..........    ....
....................."...,...,..........".. .............' ......:................. ....''....... .............,......:.:,:.:.::.:.::::::::::::::.:........'.'.'.. . ... . .. ... ...... .-.. - ......... ..................".......................:.::.,.. .:..:::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.........,... ................................... ............ ---l-.....,- .-..-..----.. .....
.I.Ill'........."........"................ .:.: p . : X.: .... 1. -................................ '' ,....... .......,...........,......'I . ... .. ....."..'.14"...'.......". ....I......"....,.,..".",......,..,.......,.
...................................... .. ....... : : ': - - - - - .... - """ - ...".." -""''''' .- .... I - I 'I.,.. I I I .. - -.-



.. .. al
...... :. ..                                                                    ::            :
. Jr:                                                   -::
...... ..::.:
.:  ...... ... ..  ox ,                                       ..   ......... 
::. - , , ~~~~~~~~~~.........    ..              ..., ,,, ... _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .                            : " 2 , ,        .   . .   ,  .  ,,
S':':',.".'',.t ..,.,,,.,,..,.,..'i " "'    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
.,: , ' -.'"' ' ' ''''' ''' '' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............''X''l'' ""'..,,:''
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
..Iiiii..Iij a~~~~~~~~........
2 I J I I I t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......... ...J ..
0Ui~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ~       X



- 42 -
ANNEX 9
. . . .   . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .   . .   . .   . . .   . .   .   . . . . .   . .         .. . R  . 0. S    . . .   .   j    .
......~~:]:.~.:.:,ANALYSTS ~OF NEi O~LOAN:PORTFOLIO ]AS ~~AT JUNE 30.~ 199
'  -  ......- -.-..-.--. ....... ......  ... .. .--.  -..... .-                                                                     TotiL   .-.      S   Efii   fSSiif   -      .........................-i      yd   fii:Xi00.:40   :0   000iS   .EE:.:
Balance
.  .  .'...:. ..'t,,E,.S00..''' g'44"0'4X'4g'44'S00000000400000000;0000-000t'ias     O f                                            
......o ,,o                                             n      alInterest                                T Total             of loan
~~~~~~~~.       .   . . .   . . . -  neS--:-.g.   g ggt184--. -0.gi-tt;---841j-:X
World Ban                   - F--E ::111 -   1  Eff 15,421 i      4g  19,930   tiL  0itf135,351   X:d027.6%4S 
.. . ........      - :i;j0----4jjj iijjjXE0: ...  . .. ...   Lkaa 4:0 ,:tS glafi cef                    Baai                Pbrtfo lio'y    u  , j-Ej S:t
....M... .... Or fe18                                    1                       1                      3464                    7.1%
.ho          m                       90  .21,42308 40,025                                               31 448                  64% 3
Wor..........  Cap... ta.   .....  ..a .. .I2Q
Sbotr l                          434 3.3,571                              :119344                   4627915                 94.6%
EDP-      WFYP -23                                         26                         20-i t::00000000  t i-44B4404000062.31-  7 4  2,8546965  026%
.M..... .                       1, 6 3.100                                       131.. I4 87             16 ,4853
St.                                 .s.'J............T.2.1.                          :: 10.5802           231 448% 4
......... .  ourMp fliSivu                             .21 424t                                         21|  4  ;: : t-tal124     .4 0: 09       
....Souce;..   : IC C.R-. ..         - 1                   j;                                              15906
.. As part of these lan agreements no interest had been charged asat une 30, 1990 on teseQ
i-iiRRiS.i.i.         ..... :y:. . .: :-::  :i::j:::::  i:-j. ::::43  71         11:4                                            94::::::::
an :0-;d. principal 4on stf loas and cosqentl these igres: have been esiatd
i-X  ,,,$-~~~~~~.    .--04.j.0Sl,00i-f......X0 Stt S 4:X;   



- 43 -
ANNEX 10
NBCI'S PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF GROSS INCOME::
.; - i - .' - ,, - ......................... 'V"'i --:.i'': :"""" ' ::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. ........
As At                          6 Mont
December   % of    December  .% of:    t ...e                  % o
-31,1988    T i    31. 1989j j              9- I
Loan Interest                    31.8      58.6%        36.9       tl.7%       :16.6 ..7%
Gains on Foreign Currency
Translation                      16.5       30.4%        0.3        0.6%           1. -:-4
Incore fromLetersof Credit    1.7            3.1%        1.1        2 1%           1.1   . .    .6.
Bank Deposit Interest       :      1.4       2.6% :   6.6          12.8%. 4.2  14.  
Loan Fees kt                       1.3       2.4%        2.9       12.8%:   --  1
Other Income QI                  .% v                              2         -    -
Gross Income            - -00.0% -                                                          1Q2oQi
Source. ICC Rt
The figures for 1988 restated to reflect the grouping of income categoies l   D s s.s
I       >Loan Fees, i,e. front-end fees, are grouped with loan interest income in t  publishe   g
g       XOther Income includes dividends receivable, guaratee fees receivable   d da ftig
recovery of legal fees.
. f E .- , - -. -: : .................................................. :::., : ,. j :  :~~ .........
.---...... . . .. .   . .  . ,  .   ,-j-.....  . -,... ... ,



ANNEX 1 1
-44 -
THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
PROFIT & LOSS ACCOUNT
(N'000)
1985      1986      1987       1988      1989       1990
Loan Interest                        16.008    16,153      22.662    20.506     30.,u8    306837
Investment Income                      360        360       360        360       671      2.605
Income on Bills Discounted             230        228       337        313        (56)    -
Bank Deposit Interest                 2.331     4,191      3,195     1,403      6,588    21,358
Income From U/C Operations            2,867     3,749      2,959     1,659      1,106     6,478
Other Income                          2,696     3,346      4.647     4,567      3,049     7,810
Income From Banking Operation        24,491    28,027     34,180    37,807    51,223    78.068
Gains on Translation of
Foreign Currency                        0      4,659     18,991    16,542       310      5,385
GROSS INCOME                         24,491    32,686    53,171     54,349    51,533     83,473
EXPENSES:
Interest Payable to Banks
& Other Lenders                      4,369      5.413    13,682     13,142    24.290     43,396
Provisions for:
Loans                                 2,384     2.917     11,797    11,806    57,840    247,586
Unquoted Investments                    0       309        632       512      4,992      -
UC's & Short-Term Loans               382       729        516      1,734       878      -
GuaranteestProm.Assets/Exch LossuOt     0         0          0         0     90,253   297,241
Sub-Total                            7,135     9,368    26,627    27,194    178,253    340,637
Dlrectors'and Board's Emoluments        91        134       249        389       187        442
Depreciation                          1,437     1,287      1,704     2,592      2,416     5,073
Administration Expenses              10,271     9,060     13,188     17,389    24,452    34,541
Sub-Total                           11,799    10,481    15,141     20,370    27,055    40,056
Total Expenses                       18,934    19,849    41,768     47,564    205,308    380,693
Net Profit (Loss)                     5,557    12.837     11,403     6,785   (153,775)  (297,220)
Transfer to Statutory Reserves            0     3,204      2,851     1,697         0          0
Retained Profit (Loss)                5,557     9,633      8,552     5,088   (153,775)  (297.220)
RATIOS
Net Profit as %s of
Average Total Assets                   2.0        3.9       3.0        1.5     -28.4      -53.6
Net Profit as s of Avg. Equity          3.2       6.9        5.5       3.0     -98.0      433.6 a/
Financial Expenses as %s of
Average Total Assets                   2.5        2.9       7.0        5.9      32.9       61.5
Administrative Expensms as %
of Average Total Assets                3.6        2.8       3.5        3.8       4.5        6.2
Source: NBCI Annual Report
a/ The ratio Is Inadequate due to the losses and negative total equity In the year.



- 45 -
ANNEX 12
THE NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
BALANCE SHEET
(N'000)
1985      1986      1987       1988      1989       1990
Quoted Investments                 6,009     6,009      6,009     6,009         8         15
Unquoted Invest. & Debenture Cost  16,978    19,047    19,034    19,009     18,530    63,713
Less: Provisions                      0      (2,266)    (2.898)    (3.410)    (8,402)   (13,699)
16,978    16,781    16,136     15,599    10,128     50,029
Loans:                           172,003   211,615   265,447   333.823   491.720    671,861
Less Provisions                  (14,507)   (17,733)   (31,560)   (77,964)  (135,700)  (402,775)
157,496   193,882   233,887    255,859    356,020    269,086
Net Promotional Assets                0      1,169    13,507    79,021      31,500     9,425
Other Current Assets              21.196    36,766    30,738    44,648      46,049    185,124
Risk Assets                      201,679   254,607   300,277   401,136    442,723      -
Cash & Short-Term Funds           64,311    94,589    53,943    108,437     66,346    15,921
Other Assets                       2,988     5,719      9,380     9,402      4,057    12,073
67,299   100,308    63,323    117,839    70,403     27,994
Total Fixed Assets                14,445    18,049     19,623    23,469     27,696    25,674
Total Assets                     283,423   372,964   383,223   542,444    540.822    567,332
EQUrTY AND UABILMES
Shareholders EauRv
Share Capital                 170,000    185,000   190,000    200,000    200,000    200,000
Building Grant                    750       750       750        750       750        750
Statutory Reserve                 667      3,871     6,722     8,419      8,419     8,419
Capital Reserve                 4,599     4,599      4,599     4,599      4,599     4,599
Revenue Reserve                 (3,196)    6,437    14,989    20,077   (133,698)  (430,918)
Total Equity                 172,820   200,657   217.060    233,845     80,070   (217,150)
Lono-Term Loans
FGN                            26,853    34,379    30.813      19,371    13,650     12,847
CBN                                 0         0         0      17,500    25,000    25.000
IBRD                                0      1,993     8,486    19,356    47,895     29,531
Morgan Grenfell                 9.312    20,074     10,519    10,519         0          0
Hungarian Trade Credit              0         0         0    53,757      68,644    58,401
ADB                                 0         0         0          0     62,562    97,953
Total Debt                    36,165    56,446    49,818    120,503    217,751    223,732
Current UabilRites:               74,438    115,861    116,345    188,096    243,001    560,750
Total Equity & Liabilities:      283,423   372,964   383.223    542,444    540,822    567,332
Contingent Uabilities
Acceptances, guarantees and
other obligations on behalf
of customers                   29,210   109,800    137,740    148,189    132,273    152,000
RATiOS
Current Ratio (times)                1.0       0.7        0.4       0.5        0.3       0.4
Debt/Equlty Ratio (%)                 17        22        19       34.0       73.0    3400.0
Source: NBCI Annual Reports



