Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3597 A-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
SMALL- AND MEDIUM - SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
November 15) 1983
Industrial Development and FinTance Divislon
Western Afri- ca Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit   =    Naira
US$1             =    N.66
Ni               =    US$1.51
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31 (until March 31, 1980)
April 1 - December 31 (1980 interim)
January 1 - December 31 (from January 1, 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
CBN       Central Bank of Nigeria
CMD       Centre for Management Development
FGN       Federal Government of Nigeria
FMI       Federal Ministry of Industries
IDC       Industrial Development Centre
ILO       International Labour Organization
NACB      Nigerian Agriculture and Cooperative Bank
NACSSI    National Advisory Committee on Small-Scale Industry
NBCI      Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry
NIDB      Nigerian Industrial Development Bank
SME       Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
SSID      Small-Scale Industries Division
SSIC      Small-Scale Industry Scheme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- ii. -
NIGERIA: SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.      INTRODUCTION .............................................                    1
II.      THE SETTING .............................................                     1
A.  The Economy .....................................                  1
B.  The Industrial Sector ..........................                   2
C.   Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises  ....            ........     4
D.  The Institutional Framework ....................                   6
E.   The Financial Sector  ...........................                 8
III.       NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY ..................    10
A.  The institution .................................    10
B.  Operations and finance ..........................    12
C.   Prospects  ......................................                17
IV.      THE PROJECT         ......................     .......................       18
A.  Project Background and Objectives  ....              ..........    18
B.  Project Description ............................    19
C.  Project Costs, Financing and Onlending
Arrangements  ................................               22
D.  Project Implementation .........................                  24
E.  Benefits and Risks .............................                 25
V.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                ..............  26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Nigeria in
March 1981 by Messrs. Hindle, Saleeby and Noel (Bank) and Spiro and
Cruickshank (consultants), followed by subsequent post-appraisal missions in
April and July 1983 by Mr. Jetha.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iii -
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1     NBCI - List of Members of Board of Directors as of
July 31, 1983
Annex II    NBCI - Organization Chart
Annex III   NBCI - Sectoral Distribution of Approved Projects
Annex IV    NBCI - Regional Distribution of Approved Projects
Annex V     NBCI - Comparative Income Statement Summary
Annex VI    NBCI - Comparative Balance Sheet
Annex VII   NBCI - Resource Position as of December 31, 1982
Annex VIII  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex IX    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report recommends a Bank loan of US$41 million to the Federal
Government of Nigeria in support of a program of financial and technical
assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) in five of the nineteen
States of the Nigerian Federation. The main objective of the project is to
develop in ANigeria a core of trained manpower and an efficient institutional
structure capable of providing technical services and credit to sound SMEs.
To meet this objective, the project would:
(i)    provide a line of credit (US$35 million) and a comprehensive
program of technical assistance (US$ 1 million) to the
National Bank for Commerce and Industry, the financial
intermediary, to strengthen its effectiveness in financial
intermediation and to develop its capacity to lend to SMEs;
(ii)   assist the Federal MKinistry of Industries (FMI) in
establishing an effective training program for Federal
officers, staff of the Industrial Development Centers (IDCs)
and state-level extension workers, thereby developing a local
capability for technical assistance to SMEs (US$4.3 million);
and
(iv)   finance further sector studies to identify potential areas for
SME development, including small Nigerian contractors and
building material producers (US$0.6 million).
II. THE SETTING
A. The Economy
2.01      Recent Developments.  Although the Nigerian economy grew rapidly in
the years immediately following the quadrupling of oil prices in 1973-74, it
is now suffering from effects of the oil syndrome, the current international
oil glut, and persistent widespread poverty. Real GDP (at factor cost)
increased by 6.5% per annum during 1974-77, but experienced an aggregate net
decline of nearly 5% during the succeeding four-year period ending in 1981.
Annual domestic price increases soared to nearly 35% in 1975, then moderated
to 12-15% by 1980. The high rate of inflation coupled with an artificially
high value for the Naira had a depressing effect on agriculture and domestic
resource-based industries. As a result, the structure of the economy shifted
dramatically in favor of construction, trade, and services, as well as oil
production. Non-oil exports declined in absolute terms and now represent less
than 5% of total exports. The country's large oil revenues facilitated heavy
investment and current expenditures. These in turn drove up consumer demand
for imports. As a result, Nigeria has had a surplus on the current account of
its balance of payments in only one year out of the last seven. As world oil
markets softened in the second half of 1981, the public finances (both federal
and state) and the balance of payments were heavily strained and foreign
exchange reserves had declined to less than two months of imports by early
1983. As the resource constraints heightened, structural inbalances and the
vulnerability of the economy became apparent. In the face of the
deteriorating balance-of-payments situation and increasing foreign exchange
shortages, in April 1982, the Government adopted a package of policy measures



-2-
including inter alia increased import duties and quantitative restrictions,
cutbacks in public expenditures, increases in interest rates and gasoline
prices, ceilings on state governments' external debt and restrictions on
capital transfers abroad. These actions, however, were not adequate in terras
of stabilizing the balance of payments in face of further softening of oil
markets. In January 1983, additional restrictions were introduced to further
reduce imports.
B. The Industrial Sector
2.02     Background.  Despite a rapid growth rate of about 11% per annum in
both value added and employment during the 1970s, the manufacturing sector
still represents only about 7% of Nigeria's GDP and 10% of total eraployment.
Manufactured exports have fallen to an insignificant level, while imported
goods have taken an increasing share of booming domestic markets in such
important products as cement and vegetable oils. The performance of the
industrial sector has been constrained by technical and managerial problems,
shortages of domestic raw materials, inadequate infrastructure, competition
from smuggled imports, and the greater attractiveness of investment
opportunities other than in manufacturing, as well as the economic recession
and deficiencies in the government policy framework.
2.03     According to the limited data available, gross investment in
manufacturing (in 1975 prices) rose dramatically from about NO.5 billion over
the period 1971-74 to N3.6 billion over 1975-78, of which private investment
accounted for about N358 million and N2.0 billion respectively. Since then,
however, new private investment does not seem to have grown as fast, and may
have stagnated due in part to the diversion of funds into acquisitions of
existing assets under the government's indigenization program, as well as a
general decline in the investment climate. During this period, public sector
investment has significantly outpaced the private sector.
2.04     The structure of Nigerian industry remains heavily dominated by
consumer goods (e.g. food and beverages, textiles) which by the late 1970s
accounted for 66% of value added and 72% of employment in the industrial
sector. Intermediate goods (e.g. metal working, building materials,
chemicals) accounted for 26% and 23%, and capital goods, (mostly vehicle
assembly) for 8% and 5% of industriLal value added and employment,
respectively. There is little reliable data available on the informal
manufacturing sector, but it still predominates in terms of industrial
employment, though its contribution to total output and value added is less
important. Consumer goods (particularly food, beverages and textiles)
represent two-thirds or more of the value-added, employment and gross private
investment in the modern manufacturing sector, with chemicals, metal working
and building materials being the largest intermediate goods industries.
Substantial investments in machinery and transportation equipment (mainly
vehicle assembly) have permitted the capital goods subsector to increase its
share of industrial value added from about 1% to 8.5% during the 1970s. The
large public sector investments undertaken in iron and steel, pulp and paper,
sugar refining, have yet to go into full commercial operation.



- 3 -
2.05     Manufacturing activity is concentrated in the Lagos area (56% of
investment, 43% of employment and 63% of value added in 1976), and to a lesser
extent in the Kano-Kaduna region (7% of investment, 21% of employment, and 17%
of value added). Mainly as a result of the government's indigenization
policies (Decrees of 1972 and 1977), the major share of paid-in share capital
in private sector manufacturing is now held by Nigerians.
2.06     Government Policy.  Although the general business environment in
Nigeria has always been strongly private sector oriented, Government has
greatly influenced industrial development, both directly and indirectly.
Directly, as in many other oil economies, Government has undertaken most of
the country's investment in large industries of national importance for which
local private capital was not available or where ownership was considered
undesirable. Indirectly, private sector investment decisions have been
affected by a host of government decrees and regulations aimed at promoting
and regulating industrial development. This, however, was achieved to a
larger extent through increased recourse to tariff and quantitative protection
measures, resulting in large distortions in the domestic price structure and
in the pattern of industrial investment. Mainly as a result of government
policy, modern industrial development has been biased towards large scale
public investments in basic industries and private investments in light
consumer goods and assembly industries, which depend on imported inputs, and
rely upon excessive protection and budgetary support. Efficiency,
particularly that of public enterprises, is generally low.
2.07     The Government's industrial policy and strategy, as reflected in its
Fourth National Development Plan (1981-85), reconfirm the Government's
commitment to industrial development as one of the main pillars of Nigeria's
long-term development. The Government's aim is to develop industries using
local raw materials (especially agro-related), strengthen intrasectoral
linkages, emphasize manpower and technological development, disperse
investment regionally, promote export-oriented industries, and stimulate
small-scale industries. Priority is being given to food processing, textiles,
building materials, engineering, chemicals, electrical equipment, and
household durables. Labor intensive industries are also being encouraged. A
more vital role is to be assigned to the private sector, with the role of
Government focussed on infrastructure investment, establishment of an
appropriate legal and regulatory climate, and investment in heavy projects
such as steel, fertilizer, LNG, petrochemicals, and cement. Greater
industrial efficiency and competitiveness is to be promoted through increased
competition and improved product quality.
2.08     Bank Group Strategy.  On the whole, the Government's broad sectoral
objectives point in the right direction but their realization will require a
major and time-consuming effort on the part of the Government, particularly in
formulating and implementing the specific policy changes that are needed and
establishing the appropriate administrative mechanisms. The Government has
asked the Bank to assist in this regard. Accordingly, the Bank is undertaking
a major program of economic and sector work with the objective of providing a
basis for a continuing policy dialogue with the Government on issues affecting
the industrial sector. More specifically, this program aims at making inputs
into current Government efforts at translating its broad industrial
development strategy, described in the preceding paragraph, into concrete
policy changes designed to improve industrial efficiency and encourage greater



- 4 -
private initiative. An Industrial Incentives Report has been comnlet-ed, which
proposes a medium-term program of measures (including adjustmert of exchaange
rate and reform of the incentives and protective system) to restructure the
incentives system, improve its administration and to streamline the regulatory
framework.  This report was discussied with the Government at an
interministerial committee meeting in April, 1983 the outcome of w1hich was
generally positive.  The Government has already indicated its intention to
implement certain of the report's recommendations (e.g. phasing out of duty
concessions on imported inputs) and an Industry Technical Assistance Program
is under preparation to support these efforts. It is also expected that
necessary policy changes in relation to trade protection incentives will be
addressed in a possible EFF program currently under discussion between the IMF
and the Government, and also a possible SAL envisaged by the Bank. A
preliminary study on Financial Intermediation has been completed, with follow-
up work to be undertaken in order, among other things, to (a) identify or
develop further mechanisms for financial intermediation; and (b) help
formulate mechanisms for the Government to productively invest its oil
revenues. Our sector work program also includes studies (at various stages of
preparation) on several key subsectors, such as Construction Materials, Agro-
Industries, Basic Metals and Engineerings, Petrochemical Industries and
Industrial Infrastructure.  These subsector studies also aim at identifying
promising investment opportunities for Nigeria and developing suitable
projects for Bank Group financing. An in-depth review of the Public
Investment Program in Manufacturing has recently been prepared and will
shortly be discussed with the Government. The recently approved fourth Bank
loan to NIDB will reinforce ongoing and future sector policy dialogue between
the Government and the Bank while supporting the main objectives of Nigeria's
industrial strategy by focussing on priority subsectors (e.g. agro-industries,
intermediate goods). The proposed Small and Medium Industries loan will
complement this approach by encouraging employment creation, efficient
regional dispersal and strengthening and deepening the financial institutions
and SMI extension service systems.
2.09     Prospects.  Nigeria has substantial potential for industrial
development based upon its large domestic market, high per capita income by
African standards, substantial agricultural and mineral resources and its
sizeable pool of private entrepreneurs. Currently, manufacturing output and
investment are affected by depressed economic conditions and shortages of
foreign exchange for inputs and spares. However, substantial market demand
exists for manufactured goods. While stabilization measures are needed in the
economy in the short-term, these will also need to set in motion necessary
structural changes through increasing incentives to industry and
agriculture. Subject to the adoption and implementation of appropriate policy
measures which are the subject of ongoing discussions between the Government
and the Bank (see para 2.08), significant medium-term prospects exist for
industrial growth.
C. Small- and-Medium-Scale Enterprises
2.10     Background.  Despite some survey work carried out in the early 1970s
by Nigerian universities and subsequent work by the Bank, knowledge of the SME
subsector is limited. In 1972 the FGN's official definition of small-scale
enterprises included all firms with machinery and equipment valued at less
than N150,000 (about US$ 230,000), a definition which has proven too



- 5 -
restrictive in the current Nigerian context especially in view of
infrastructure constraints and inflation. 1/ Accordingly, small scale
enterprises in recent times are understood to include all those with capital
costs (excluding land and building) not exceeding N250,000 (US$ 380,000).
Likewise, enterprises with capital assets not exceeding N1-1.5 million
(US$1.5-2.3 million), though not formally defined as such, are considered
medium scale enterprises. Attempts made at gaining a better knowledge of SME
in Nigeria have proven elusive, as the sheer size of the country and diversity
of small and medium firms has made it difficult to design adequate survey
programs. Political and social factors have had an important impact on small
business development in Nigeria. First, policy responsibility for small scale
business support is shared between federal and state governments, leading
simultaneously to competition for responsibility and in other cases to mutual
neglect. Second, potential entrepreneurs in different geographic areas seem
more or less willing to begin specific businesses, which means that different
states have different needs and entrepreneurial potential. Certainly the
needs of small businesses are not uniform across Nigeria and vary by
location. Third, insofar as extension work is an important part of assistance
to small businesses, language constraints apply and virtually necessitate
state directed extension efforts. To deal with such a diverse population of
ultimate clients, the project described in this report is a pilot program
designed to serve primarily five selected States of the Federation. The five
chosen States, selected by FGN, (Cross Rivers, Imo, Niger, Ondo and Plateau)
themselves are extraordinarily diverse, but would provide practical experience
in the problems of providing and managing credit and advice to SMlEs in
Nigeria.
2.11     Profile of Nigerian SMEs.  In 1972 the number of modern sector SMEs
(defined at that time as those employing fewer than 10 workers) was estimated
at about  90,000.  Extrapolating from surveys carried out in the Project's
five target States, the Bank estimates the number of such firms to be about
125,000 now. Regional growth rates both in terms of numbers of firms and
sales indicate that numbers of firms may have increased slightly less than
population growth. Clearer evidence is available on the main features of
small scale businesses in Nigeria than on their numbers. Tailoring, furniture
making and baking remain the predominant small enterprises. Automobile repair
and metal working are also important. (A recent study by Michigan State
University indicates that in Nigeria, rates of return on tailoring are
virtually nil, but quite high on furniture making, baking and automobile
repairs). Almost 90 percent of small businesses in Nigeria employ two to five
persons, are highly concentrated in urban areas, are almost exclusively sole
proprietorships, depend on their own or relatives' capital, and are promoted
by the marginally educated (primary school or below). SMEs in Nigeria are
exclusively Nigerian-owned and managed. Little quantitative information is
available on competition among small, medium and large firms, although
1/   Assuming an annual inflation rate of only 10%, the 1972 figure of
N150,000 would be approximately N350,000 in today's value.



-6-
informal sector firms appear to prcduce for slightly different clienteles.
SMEs, although much better distributed throughout the Federation than large
industries typically have been, seem to be proportionally more numerous in the
south.
2412     Constraints on SME.  Constraints to SME development appear to fall in
five categories: i) insufficient properly trained manpower; ii) insufficient
SME-oriented capital coupled with inadequate financial intermediation;
iii) poor infrastructure support; iv) constrained markets; v) Government
inertia in providing necessary support. Concerning human skills, there does
not appear to be a lack of entrepreneurial drive or initiative, as much as
there is a lack of trained technical skills necessary to manage business
growth and expansion. Capital insufficiency for small businesses is less a
question of absolute availability than one of inadequate financial
intermediation and the need for priming the pump of domestic liquidity to
induce greater flows to this sector. Infrastructure inadequacy is a pervasive
problem, but in the case of smaller businesses with limited access to capital
it is especially troublesome, as SHEs are less able to finance their own
captive water or power supplies. Markets are affected by poor transport
facilities, by uncontrolled imports, or by the parachuting of large scale
enterprises which suddenly absorb the sources of raw materials and flood the
markets of existing SMEs. In contrast to these constraints, the potential for
small- and medium-scale businesses is sizeable, consumer demand is rising and
industrial growth is seen by government as a cornerstone of future
development.
2.13     Prospects for SME.  Although public stress has been laid on the
promotion of SMEs, practical efforts by the Federal Government have so far
been limited to designating one federal bank, Nigerian Bank for Commerce and
Industry (NBCI), as lender to SMEs and establishing Industrial Development
Centers (IDCs) to service them (See para 2.15). At the state level, Small
Scale Industry Credit Schemes (SSIC; see para 2.23) have had some success in
establishing a core (though insufficient) of trained industrial extension
officers and a pipeline of projects. These developments, linked to Nigeria's
rapid growth and generally dynamic industrial sector, result in fairly bright
prospects for SMEs. As an example, in the five target states surveyed for
this project, about 300 small firms with projects totaling about N60 million
appear feasible over the next three years. Of these projects, about 80% have
already reached some advanced stage of preparation. For the longer term, the
prospects for Nigerian firms are good as linkages between existing large
enterprises are established and the economy is restructured to emphasize
manufactured goods.
D. The Institutional Framework
2.14     Agencies Assisting SMEs.  At the federal level, the focal point for
all policies affecting SMEs is the Small-Scale Industries Division (SSID) of
the Federal Ministry of Industries. As organized, SSID has three divisions:
one is the liaison channel with NBCI, one oversees the IDCs, and one handles
administrative matters. The IDCs are federal agencies, staffed by federal
civil servants. It is Government's intention to establish one in each of the
states. There are also two industrial estates for SMEs, one near Lagos and
one in Anambra State. At the state level, within state ministries of Trade,
Industry and Cooperatives, each state has its own Small-Scale Industry



-7-
Division. In a purely advisory role, the National Advisory Committee on
Small-Scale Industry (NACSSI) provides advice to state and federal agencies on
SME promotion. Finally, outside government the University of Ife's Industrial
Development and Research Unit has established its own small industries
consultancy service and the ILO supported Centre for Management Development
(CMD), is actively engaged in working with SMEs.
2.15     Industrial Development Centers.  In 1962, external consultants
financed by USAID proposed to Nigeria the establishment of three industrial
development centers (IDCs) in the northern, eastern and western regions. The
objective of the IDCs is to render on the spot assistance and guidance to
small industries on process techniques, selection of machinery, training and
management. The centers did this through the establishment of common
workshops, provision of specialized machines, service and testing equipment,
libraries and training courses and extension work. In line with the
objectives of the Fourth National Development Plan to provide a center for
each state of the Federation, ten more IDCs have been set up in the recent
past. The remaining six are planned to be established within the next year.
The total staff of the IDC system in 1982 was 97 professionals and slightly
over 150 support staff.
2.16     State Ministries of Industries.  Although IDCs are the core agencies
responsible for providing managerial, technical and other assistance to SMEs,
the Small Scale industries divisions of the State Ministries also render
significant extension services to local enterprises. Through their various
area offices, the state ministries are often more accessible and better
attuned to local conditions than IDCs and thus, are generally in a better
position to deal with the problems of smaller entrepreneurs. Areas of
assistance include both pre and post investment activity as well as
counselling on accountancy and management.
2.17     The delivery of assistance to SME has suffered from a number of
problems. First, because IDCs are perceived as an extension of the Federal
Ministry of Industries into the state environment, there is frequently a lack
of coordination and cooperation between the IDC and the state ministries.
Second, the centers are staffed with federal employees, who often do not speak
the local language and who are inadequately paid. Third, federal financial
support for operations has been an on again off again proposition depending on
the level of federal resources. Fourth, the current expansion of the IDC
system from three centers to a nationwide system is putting severe strains on
the existing staff. Despite these problems, the basic concept underlying the
IDCs is still sound. Given adequate funding and staffing, carefully detailed
operating procedures, as well as external technical assistance, they should be
able to operate as centralized training points for staff from state ministries
in the appraisal, promotion and supervision of small scale businesses.
Moreover, they are well placed to act as referral centers for difficult
technical and managerial problems encountered by state extension officers in
the course of working with small businesses.



-8-
E. The Financial Sector
2.18     Financial Institutions.  Nigeria has a relatively well developed
financial system. In addition to a number of merchant banks, state and
federal development banks, savings banks, mortgage banks and other financial
institutions, there is an extensive commercial banking network that is
increasingly spreading to smaller cities throughout the 19 states. In 1970,
at the end of the civil war, the Central Bank had six branches, while today it
has eleven branches and five currency centers, as well as plans to reach the
objective of one branch in each of the 19 states of the Federation. In 1970,
Nigeria had only 14 commercial banks with 273 offices, compared with over 20
commercial banks with more than 800 offices at the end of 1982. In the same
interval, merchant banks have multiplied from one in 1970 to six today.
2.19     Central Bank Policy.  The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has been at
the forefront of this growth, emphasizing its developmental role. In the past
decade, it has had increasing recourse to a wide array of policy instruments
to foster and direct the growth of the financial sector in Nigeria. After
actively participating in the promotion of the domestic money and capital
markets, the CBN sustained the development of the most important financial
institutions, among which the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB),
Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI) and Nigerian Agriculture and
Cooperative Bank (NACB). Through the Agricultural Credit Guarantee Fund, it
provides a guarantee to commercial and merchant banks on agricultural credits
up to 75%; and through the Rural Banking Scheme, it requires Nigerian
commercial banks to open 260 new branches throughout the country by the end of
1985.
2.20     The CBN regulates the financial sector.  It sets ceilings on overall
credit expansion by commercial and merchant banks (currently 30% per annum).
It determines minimum shares for preferred sectors in total loans and advances
from commercial banks and maximum shares for non-priority sectors. It
requires a minimum portion (currently 40%) of total loans and advances by
merchant banks to be medium to long-term with maturities of not less than
three years. It expects banks to maintain a minimum credit allocation of 70%
to indigenous borrowers, including 16% to be reserved entirely for small-scale
enterprise. It also monitors the banks' financial position by requiring them
to respect certain cash reserve and liquidity ratios.
2.21     Interest Rates.  Interest rate guidelines for various financial
institutions are likewise established by the CBN, subject to periodic
revision. Since the most recent revision in November 1982, these guidelines
provide for interest rates across sectors ranging from 6 to 13% with a maximum
lending rate to industry of 11-1/2% for loans maturing within three years and
of 13% for those with longer maturities. Lending rate guidelines for NBCI and
NIDB range from 10-1/2% to 13%. NBCI and NIDB, however, are not subject to
the credit ceiling applied on commercial and merchant banks and NBCI has set
its rate at 12%, up from between 6-10% previously. Although interest rates in
Nigeria are still below the rate of inflation, projected at 15% for the
medium-term, rates have moved up considerably over the past few years.



-9-
2.22     Lending to SMEs.  Despite the existence of a large number of
financial institutions and CBN's guidelines for the banks to allocate a
minimum share of their loans to small scale enterprises, adequate
institutional credit has not been available to SMEs. Although the Banks
generally meet or sometimes exceed the CBN stipulated 70% allocation to
indigenous borrowers, they have consistently failed to reach the targets in
respect of loans to Nigerian owned small scale enterprises. The industrial
development banks and the state investment companies have mainly lent to
medium- and large-scale enterprises and commercial banks have preferred the
established and well-known corporate borrowers. As a result, the only
organized form of credit to SSEs has been the SSIC Scheme (see para 2.23).
Very little information is available on non-institutional sources of finance,
but a survey of nearly 22,000 SSEs, conducted in the early 1970's by the
Industrial Research and Development Unit of the University of Ife indicated
that the main sources of finance were owner savings and those from relatives
or friends. Similarly, little is known about suppliers' credit. In spite of
government efforts to finance SSEs through the SSIC scheme, the general
picture is still as in many other developing countries: inaccessibility of
institutional sources of funds for SSEs which consequently become largely
confined to sources whose methods are relatively simple; these, however,
provide mostly short-term financing only, are unreliable and - in the case of
moneylenders - extremely expensive.
2.23     Small Scale Industry Credit Schemes.  With a view to providing
technical and financial assistance for the development of Small Scale Nigerian
enterprises in manufacturing, processing and service activities, the Small
Scale Industries Credit Scheme (SSIC) was established by the Federal
Government in the mid-1960's. Relying on matching funds from the states and
the Federal Government, SSICs have been established in all 19 states and are
generally managed by the State Ministries of Industry, Trade and
Cooperatives. A loan management committee consisting of state civil servants,
representatives of the IDCs and branch managers of local disbursing banks
direct the credit activities of the SSIC. Delivery of technical assistance to
the borrowers, evaluation of their project proposals and collections of the
loans are services that IDCs are normally required to provide under the
scheme, but, due to IDC staff and resource constraints, these tasks have, in
practice, been increasingly carried out by the State Ministry officials.
2.24     The performance of the scheme has varied considerably from state to
state, although a number of difficulties are common.  Despite the fact that
most of the schemes have screened and approved a large number of loan
applications, actual disbursement of funds has been minimal owing to the fact
that both federal and state governments have not been able to meet their
funding commitments. Moreover, many of the projects ultimately financed have
been assisted for reasons other than financial or technical viability.
Arrears have been extensive and, contrary to original expectations, very
little, if any, roll over has taken place. In virtually every state, there
have been extensive overcommitments as well as numerous projects on the shelf
awaiting approval. The technical capacity of the state civil servants who
carry out the program also varies considerably, although the general level is
satisfactory and can be improved with proper training. Finally, the problem
of coordinating the state work with IDCs has never really been overcome.
Insufficient mobility on the part of both IDC staff and state people,
shortages of experienced staff and communication problems have been very



- 10 -
difficult. Despite these inadequacies, the concept of state based
organizations for SME promotion is fundamentally sound. What is needed,
however, is a consistently available source of credit, training for extension
workers and acceptable standards of project appraisal. Although credit
allocation by the SSICs has been negatively affected by political
considerations and the lack of funds, the industrial officers in the state
ministries are frequently the best placed persons to know the needs and
environment of small local borrowers. The ministries could well therefore,
move out of direct financing of projects and focus on the extension
services. Perhaps to underscore this shift, the Federal Government, in recent
years, has stopped making funds directly available to the states and has
instead been relying exclusively on NBCI to channel funds for onlending to
SSIs within the states.
2.25     Prospects.  Demand for credit by Nigerian SMEs is vast, yet, apart
from limited funds provided through SSICs, little organized form of lending is
available to them. NBCI, the designated federal financial institution to
support the growth of indigenous enterprises, has, in the recent past,
increased its efforts to satisfy this demand but, lacking the necessary
coverage, experience and resources, its impact so far has not been
significant. Given the vast size of the country and the diverse needs of the
entrepreneurs, an effective credit delivery system in Nigeria appears to be
one which would combine apex banking with or without direct lending by NBCI
and the bulk of retailing by the commercial and state level banks. However,
such a system, under current constraints resulting from institutional
weaknesses in NBCI and the prevailing interest rate structures, which do not
allow for a sufficiently attractive spread to retail banks, is not likely to
be accomplished for some time. Bearing these factors in mind, the proposed
project, as a first step in that direction, aims at institutionally
strengthening NBCI and enhancing its role as the principal SME financial
intermediary in Nigeria.
III. NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY (NBCI)
A. The Institution
3.01     Background.  The Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI) was
established by Decree 1/ in April 1973, to promote and assist indigenous
enterprises in the areas of commerce and industry. Its activities include
equity investments, loans (including short-term advances by its merchant
banking unit), guarantees, underwritings, and merchant banking services. To
date, the bulk of NBCI's activities have been loan and equity financing of
medium-size Nigerian enterprises, although, with the establishment of branches
in each of the nineteen states of the Federation and through channelling of
federal SSIC funds, NBCI has, in recent years, tended to increase the share of
its lending to small scale enterprises.
1/   Now changed to a Legislative Act.



- 11 -
3.02     Capital.  NBCI's authorized and paid-in capital is N50 million,
represented by 500,000 shares having a par value of N100 each. The Government
and Central Bank are the sole shareholders of NBCI,subscribing to 60% and 40%
of the shares respectively. NBCI has proposed to the Government and CBN, and
received in principle their approval to increase the share capital to N150
million to be achieved by conversion into equity of N60 million of the
outstanding N110 million loans from the Government and fresh subscription of
N40 million by CBN.  The conversion from loan to equity of the Government's
share would not provide any new resources to NBCI, as the funds in question
have already been received, but it would result in a sizeable saving of
*         interest payments and ease NBCI's cash flow.
3.03     Board.  Annex I contains a list of NBCI's Board members which, as of
July 31, 1983, stood at 15 Directors. NBCI's act does not provide for a fixed
number of Directors, and, except for the Chairman, the Managing Director, and
one Director each from the Federal Ministries of Finance, Economic
Development, Trade, Industries and the Central Bank, the Minister of
Finance 1/ may as necessary appoint additional members. NBCI's current Board
is made up largely of experienced businessmen, but the amount of flexibility
provided by the Charter is unnecessary and agreement was reached during
negotiations that it would be amended to set a maximum number of members and
specific term of appointment. NBCI's Board decides upon all investments of
N300,000 and over. The Board meets on the average, once every two months.
3.04     Policies, Operating Guidelines and Procedures.  Subsequent to on-
going discussions between the Bank and NBCI in conjunction with the proposed
project, the basic policies and procedures, outlining NBCI's operating methods
and practices have now been drawn up. Although these still need to be
complemented and further refined in due course, particularly in areas relating
to internal control, financial management, branch operations and loan
supervision, they already provide an adequate institutional framework for
NBCI's activities. NBCI's policy statement has however not yet been approved
by its Board and this approval would be made a condition of effectiveness for
the proposed loan. NBCI's current policies are generally satisfactory:
equity investments in individual companies are limited to 40% of the company's
share capital, loans are generally restricted to 70% of the total investments
and NBCI's maximum exposure in any single company is not to exceed 10% of
NBCI's paid-up share capital. Exceptions to these limits may be authorized
on economic grounds for high priority projects, which may require to be
promoted by NBCI itself. Such exceptions are however not expected to be
numerous. Procedures with respect to loan appraisal and supervision,
disbursements, security requirements, guarantees etc. are likewise
satisfactory and, if applied strictly, should result in markedly improving the
standards of NBCI's operations and, over the long run, the quality of its
portfolio. Compliance with the established procedures is however an area
requiring stricter enforcement and tighter monitoring by NBCI's management
than in the past.
1/   Now changed to the Minister of Industries.



- 12 -
3.05     Foreign Exchange Risk.  Except for a single US$20 million export
credit from Morgan Grenfell, secured in 1982, all NBCI borrowings are
denominated in Nairas. NBCI's loan agreement, amended following the Bank's
recommendations, passes on the foreign exchange risk on the above credit to
the borrowers. The foreign exchange risk on the proposed Bank loan will be
assumed by the Government. Hence NBCI does not currently or prospectively
carry any exchange risk. However, were NBCI to borrow externally to finance
the cost of its projected new head office in Abuja, as initially planned, it
would incur a sizeable exposure to this risk. Assurances were obtained that
for all such external borrowings, NBCI would take appropriate steps to protect
itself against foreign exchange risk.
3.06     Organization, Management and Staff.  As shown in Annex II, NBCI is
organized into four major Departments (Corporate Services, Investment,
Administration and Merchant Banking), each headed by a General Manager.
NBCI's senior management is competent and reasonably well trained, but thinly
spread and hampered by lack of experienced professional officers and
sufficient support staff. NBCI presently employs over 700 people including
about 150 in the nineteen branches. NBCI's professional staff numbers about
130, most of whom are college graduates, with several having advanced degrees
and/or professional qualifications (e.g. MSs, MBAs, CPAs etc.) in economics,
business and accounting. About 80 of NBCI's professional staff are engaged in
appraisal and supervision activities, of whom eight are trained engineers.
Given NBCI's significant involvement with industrial and manufacturing
projects, the volume and scope of its operations, and the weak quality of its
portfolio, there is clearly a neecl to strengthen its technical appraisal and
supervision capability, mainly through provision of advisory services and
staff training. Likewise, assistance is also needed to strengthen NBCI's
accounting and financial systems and procedures as well as its internal
control mechanisms. Finally, the recent rapid growth in the number of its
branch offices (currently one in each of the 19 states in the Federation) has
highlighted the need for setting-up appropriate structures and procedures to
better monitor, control and evaluate the performance and operations of these
branches in addition to providing on-the-job training for field officers
working in these branches.
3.07     To meet these various demands, the proposed project provides for
financing of a comprehensive technical assistance program to NBCI. The
proposed program would consist of provision to NBCI by an experienced banking
institution and/or by individual experts, from overseas, of up to
96 man/months of advisory services covering a broad spectrum of its
activities, including project promotion, appraisal and supervision, portfolio
management, accounting and financial management, internal control and branch
network management. In addition to on-the-job training, selected officers of
NBCI would also benefit from overseas training under the program.
B. Operations and Finance
3.08     Volume of Approvals.  as of March 31, 1983, NBCI had approved a total
of 306 projects for commitments amounting to N332.2 million of which equity
investments in 108 projects accounted for N27 million (8.1%), loans to 290
projects accounted for N236.4 million (71.2%) and guarantees to 30 projects



- 13 -
for N 68.5 million 1/. NBCI's annual approvals during the review period have
been uneven. After reaching a high of N62 million in 1976, annual approvals
dropped for two consecutive years, reaching a low of N7.2 million in 1978,
before picking up again to N9.7 million in 1979, N10.4 million in 1980 and N63
million in 1981. Approvals dropped again to N26 million in 1982. Annual
commitments during this period have been substantially lower than approvals
averaging about 48% of annual approvals, owing in part to premature approvals,
and also NBCI's limited financial resources during these years. In 1977 and
1978, however, commitments were about 50% higher than approvals in each of
those years, due to a drop in approvals, coupled with substantial carryover
from prior years' high approval levels.
3.09     Sectoral and Regional Distribution of Approvals. NBCI's operations
(detailed in Annex III) are multi-sectoral, spanning 14 major areas of
activities, with non-metallic minerals, food and beverages, hotels and tourism
and wood and wood products accounting for the bulk of NBCI's assistance. NBCI
has managed to diversify its portfolio and maintain a balance between various
sub-sectors in terms of its direct lending. Likewise, despite disparities in
economic potential among the various states, NBCI strives to balance its
lending to these states, which in practice is difficult to achieve. Regional
distribution of N4BCI's approvals as of March 31, 1983 is shown in Annex IV.
3.10     Client Profile.  In keeping with its mandate to promote indigenous
entrepreneurs, all of NBCI's projects are either wholly of majority Nigerian-
owned. As of December 31, 1982, about 60% of NBCI's projects were 100%
Nigerian-owned, while the balance were at least 51% Nigerian. In terms of
client size, the average total cost of NBCI's projects was N2.0 million
(approximately USA 3.1 million), while the average size of NBCI's assistance
in direct loans was NO.78 million (approximately US$ 1.2 million), and NO.25
million (US$0.4 million) in equity investments. Of all the loans approved by
NBCI through March 31, 1983, 37.8% in number (and 7.6% in amount) were loans
of N250,000 and less, 44.1% in number (and 28.6% in amount) were loans of
between N250,000 and N 1 million and the balance (18.1% in number and 63.8% in
amount) were loans of N 1 million and more. Within the context of the
Nigerian economy, NBCI's beneficiaries (81.9% of total approvals in number)
have thus been primarily medium- and small-sized projects.
1/   These figures do not include NBCI's approvals of small loans under
the Federal Government SSIC scheme, which it manages since late 1981.
Total approvals under this scheme, as of January 31, 1983, amounted to
N50.2 million (US$75.8 million) for 1,368 projects.



- 14 -
3.11     Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1982, NBCI's outstanding portfolio
consisted of 180 projects amounting to N110.4 million. 1/ Of this amount,
-N96.1 million (87%) represented straight loan assistance while the balance of
N14.3 million (13%) represented equity investments. Partly as a result of
unorganized and inadequate investment supervision and recovery efforts, the
overall quality of NBCI's portfolio is poor. Of N96.1 million in loans
outstanding to 180 companies, 96 companies are experiencing difficulties with
arrears of N42 million representing NBCI's exposure of about N60.8 million.
Thus, based upon available data, it is estimated that, as of December 31,
1982, about 63% of NBCI's portfolio was affected by arrears, of which N27.3
(65% of total arrears) was over 12 months. As of December 31, 1982, NBCI had
collected only about N11.3 million in loan repayments out of a total of about
N53 million due, reflecting a recovery rate of 21%. In terms of geographic
location, six states account for over 60% of NBCI's arrears (Oyo, Cross
River, Kaduna, Bendel, Ondo and Anambra). Sectorally, three activities
account for almost 60% of arrears (wood and wood products 14.9%, non metallic
minerals 23.6%, and food and beverages 20%).
3.12     NBCI's auditors, D.F. Dafinone & Co., have expressed concern over the
high level of arrears and reservations as to the adequacy of existing
portfolio provisions, which according to NBCI's 1981 accounts stood at about
N3.2 million, or 3.7% of the total outstanding loans. Accordingly, the
auditors have recommended a further increase in the level of provisions for
FY1982, in the order of N2 million, to be charged against reserves and
operating results for the year. Though NBCI's arrears situation is
unsatisfactory and warrants strong actions by management, the institution
still remains creditworthy and financially viable, owing to its strong equity
base (N150 million) 2/ which far exceeds existing arrears (or even the
outstanding portfolio), and low level of long-term debts (largely Government
loans). In order to ensure that adequate and timely measures are henceforth
taken by NBCI's management to improve loan recovery, NBCI's management has,
upon the Bank's recommendation, set up a special Loan Recovery Unit and
submitted to the Bank an acceptable plan of action for this unit, which, inter
alia, proposes to-
i)     implement a comprehensive general accounting and control
system (including internal audit) to regularly monitor the
status of collections;
1/   Exclusive of over 1000 disbursed small loans for N40 million (US$66
million) under the FGN SSIC scheme.
2/   This figure is based upon recent agreement in principle by the
Government to convert into equity N60 million of its existing loans and
by the Central Bank to suscribe N40 million in cash into NBCI's
projected equity increase.



- 15 -
ii)     establish proper procedures for billings and follow-up
thereof;
iii)   reinforce NBCI's efforts to recover past arrears; and
iv)    make recommendations to the management, in liaison with the
legal and investment departments, to initiate litigation
against NBCI's delinquent clients from whom recovery appears
unlikely.
3.13      Profitability.  NBCI's audited income statements for the years
1977/78 through 1981 along with provisional 1982 accounts are summarized in
Annexes V and VI. They indicate that although there has been a significant
increase in NBCI's gross income over the past five years, (from N3.3 million
in 1977/78 to N15.3 million in 1982), NBCI's operating expenditures, and
finance charges in particular, have grown at a faster rate, resulting in a
steady decline in NBCI's net income, which has dropped from a profit of N1.4
million in 1977/78 to a deficit of N2.4 million in 1981. Although final
figures for last year are not yet available, NBCI is expected to record an
even higher deficit in 1982 owing mainly to the need for making additional
provisions against portfolio losses.
3.14      Several other factors have also contributed to the decline in NBCI's
profitability. First, the sizeable growth in NBCI's borrowings from the
government (N30 million in FY 1979/80 to N142.6 million in 1982), coupled with
an increase in the interest rate on these borrowings to 6X from 3% prior to
1980, has significantly increased its finance charges. Second, the
establishment of several new branch offices over the past two years, with the
required growth in staff, has resulted in a substantial increase in
administrative expenses. Third, the level of interest rates charged on SME
loans by NBCI, at the government's request, (between 6-8.5%) has not allowed
for a sufficient spread on its resources. Finally, returns to NBCI on its
equity investments have been low, representing less than NO.4 million in 1982
on an average portfolio of N14 million.
3.15      The projected conversion into equity of a part of borrowings from the
government (see para. 3.02) and the increase, as from beginning of 1983, in
NBCI's lending rate to 12% should however bring about a rapid improvement in
NBCI's financial performance, and, coupled with more vigilant portfolio
management, project supervision and collections, should enable NBCI to restore
its profitability to a satisfactory level.
3.16      Financial Condition.  Despite the high level of its arrears, NBCI's
financial position can be considered as sound, owing largely to its strong
equity base and low level of borrowings. NBCI'S total assets increased more
than threefold from 1977/78 year-end to 1982 year-end. Except for 1979 when
there was a slight decline in total assets (-9%) from the preceding year,
NBCI's total assets have grown at an average annual rate of 40%. The main
factor for this increase has been the growth in NBCI's portfolio and its
deposits, resulting from placements of excess liquidity arising from the
periodic injection of additional resources by the Government. The main items
making up NBCI's total assets as of December 31, 1982 were (a) loans and
equity investments in projects, 49%, (b) time deposits, 12%; (c) customers
liabilities for guarantees, 17%; and (d) cash & bank balances, 8%.



- 16 -
3.17      NBCI's long-term investment portfolio (loans and equity) has averaged
around 60Y of total assets over the past five years, with 1982 figure being
49%. After experiencing annual growth of over 50% for both 1977/78 and
1978/79, NBCI's total loans and equity portfolio slowed down to a near
standstill growth of 2% in 1979 and 1980. Since then, however, as a result of
additional borrowings secured from the Government, the growth has resumed,
with a rate of almost 60% in 1982. NBCI's long-term debt to equity (not
taking into account the projected equity increase) has consistently remained
low, ranging from 0.4 in 1977/78 to 2.6 in 1982. The corresponding ratios of
total debt to equity were 0.6 and 4.6 respectively. NBCI thus has a
substantial unutilized borrowing capacity, but due to its present weak
portfolio and low profitability, NBCI is likely to have difficulties obtaining
long-term loans from the market at this time.
3.18      Resources.  As of December 31, 1982, NBCI had a balance of about N5.6
million in uncommited local currency resources. Additional N20 million long-
term loans were expected to be provided by the Government during 1983, thus
bringing the total of available funds for new commitments to N25 million.
NBCI's long-term resources as of December 31, 1982, consisted mainly of equity
in the amount of N55.8 million (24%), Government loans of N142.5 million (62%)
and an export credit from Morgan Grenfell of US$20 million (6%). The
Government has recently decided to document properly all loans to NBCI ( which
was not the case heretofore), and charges an interest rate of 6% p.a. on all
loans made available since August 15, 1980, up from 3% on previous loans. 1/
Annex VII gives a summary of NBCI's resource position as of December 31, 1982.
3.19      NBCI has had no foreign loans in the past except for the US$20
million equivalent export credit from Morgan Grenfell, U.K., and has treated
all its resources, denominated in Nairas, as local currency, though the
Central Bank has provided NBCI with substantial foreign exchange for overseas
procurement. In the future, as Government resources get tighter, NBCI will
have to begin seeking long term loans on the domestic and foreign markets. If
it is able to preserve its relatively large equity base intact, improve its
efficiency, profitability and portfolio, it might then contemplate making an
entry into the market, perhaps with a Government guarantee. With NBCI's
present large equity base and low cost government loans, there would be enough
capacity to absorb commercial borrowing rates while keeping down its weighted
average cost of funds, provided the Government will allow NBCI to charge
realistic interest rates to insure a reasonable spread.
1/   Funds made available to NBCI by the government for small loans
under SSIC scheme (N32.4 million as of December 31, 1982) are interest
free and would continue to remain so, even though NBCI has started
charging its normal interest rate of 12% on such loans as against 6%
previously.



- 17 -
C. Prospects
3.20     Mainly owing to oil revenues, the Nigerian economy in the medium to
long term is expected to resume its rapid growth. Its large market offers a
good potential for both consumer and intermediate industrial goods.
Furthermore, the Government's commitment to diversify the country's economic
base to reduce the almost total reliance upon oil revenue, should open up new
areas of manufacturing activity both for the local and export markets.  To
date the major beneficiary of NBCI's direct assistance, in number, has been
medium to small-scale enterprises, accounting for approvals of about 240
projects representing N85 million of NBCI's total direct assistance in
addition to over 1,000 small enterprises assisted under the SSIC scheme. This
subgroup, which comprises mainly indigenous entrepreneurs, is expected to
receive the greatest boost from the rapidly growing economy and Government's
policy decision to create a more favorable private investment climate.
3.21     NBCI is endeavoring to overcome its present institutional weaknesses
and to develop into an effective development finance institution specializing
in assistance to small- and medium-scale enterprises, thus complementing NIDB,
the other financial institution operating in the industrial sector, which
concentrates on larger industrial projects. A major objective of the project
is to assist NBCI in such endeavor. NBCI's present pipeline of projects (250
in advanced stages of processing), requiring total NBCI assistance of at least
N200 million, indicates a bright operational outlook for the next two to three
years. Using past experience, and conservatively assuming that only 40% of
the present pipeline (100 projects representing assistance of N80 million)
would be realized over the next two years, this would still represent average
annual approvals of N40 million, compared with N26 million in 1982 and N60
million in 1981. This level of operations, which does not take account of
additional lending under the SSIC scheme, is attainable by NBCI, particularly
given the greater recognition by the Government of the potential for SMEs and
the strengthening of the project promotion and assistance capabilities of both
NBCI and the extension service agencies, proposed to be undertaken under the
present project. Prospects for NBCI lending to SMEs in the five target pilot
states in particular are also good. Approximately 70 projects, costing less
than Ni million each and requiring total NBCI financing of N26 million (US$ 39
million) are currently undergoing processing in the branch offices within
those states.
3.22     In the past NBCI has not prepared financial or operational
forecasts. Given its weak information base, coupled with some uncertainty in
its future equity base, it is not possible to prepare, with any degree of
reliability, a set of forecasts of NBCI's operations and finances at this
time. However, this is one of the areas in which the Bank intends to be of
assistance to NBCI under this project, and by the end of the first year of the
program, NBCI is expected to be in a position to prepare such forecasts. In
the meantime however, through Bank's on-going discussions with NBCI, a set of
rough projections has been established, as a working document, subject to
subsequent revision, to provide some tentative indications of NBCI'S financial
and operational performance in the near future.



- 18 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background and Objectives
4.01     Background.  The Bank Group has had a long standing program in the
industrial sector of Nigeria. In 1964 IFC was instrumental in the
recapitalization of NIDB and has subsequently participated in 6 investments in
Nigeria. IFC's 25% shareholding in NIDB was sold to the Government at par in
1974 for US$1.4 million. The Bank has approved four lines of credit to NIDB
of US$6 million, US$10 million, US$60 million and US$120 million in 1969,
1970, 1978 and 1983 respectively. A Project Performance Audit Report on the
first two lines of credit was circulated on October 10, 1977. The report
concluded among other points that, while NIDB itself had implemented the
project satisfactorily and had performed efficiently, the Bank's impact on the
sector as a whole could have been more extensive. This report, using Nigeria
as one example, recommended the use of primary development banks such as NBCI
and NIDB as apex lenders to state, local and commercial banks to stimulate the
flow of long-term lending.
4.02      The Bank's first attempt to develop an SME project in Nigeria started
in 1973, when the Bank appraised a nationwide project jointly with UNIDO.
Unfortunately, during negotiations the Bank and the Government were unable to
agree either on means to implement the proposal or on final lending rates to
borrowers, and further consideration of the loan was deferred. Subsequently,
during the appraisal of NIDB in January, 1978, the Bank concluded that an
effective approach to industrial development in Nigeria would require an
integrated effort to reach both large and small firms. In practical terms,
this means supplementing Bank lending to NIDB, which concentrates on assisting
relatively large industrial projects, with some other lending scheme that
would benefit enterprises at the lower end of the industrial spectrum. Since
then work has been carried out in Nigeria to survey the potential of, and
constraints to, SMEs. The proposed project stems from this work.
4.03      Two important considerations underlie the project design.  First, the
tremendous topographical diversity of Nigeria, reinforced by ethnic and
language differences, necessitates a decentralization of an SME credit and
technical assistance program to the local level. This in turn requires an
effective outreach program for technical advice and credit, which can get to
entrepreneurs in their places of work. Second, Nigeria is too big, the
problems of SMEs are too varied and the human constraints too great to
implement a national industrial extension and credit program in one project.
Any such program must be phased over a number of years, and be initially
limited in its geographic scope, and the present project assumes continued
future support to the sector by the Government and the Bank. As a first
phase, five states (Cross River, Imo, Niger, Ondo, and Plateau) have been
chosen by the Government as target states for the industrial extension and
credit program proposed under this project.
4.04     Objectives.  The basic objective of the project is to develop in
Nigeria a core of trained manpower and an institutional structure capable of
providing technical advice and credit to viable SMEs. To meet this objective
the project would:



- 19 -
i)     strengthen NBCI as a financial intermediary and develop its
capacity to lend to small- and medium-scale enterprises;
ii)    train federal and state extension workers to improve their
effectiveness in the promotion, appraisal and supervision of
small- and medium-scale enterprises; and
(iii)  conduct further studies to identify potential areas for small-
scale enterprise development and their growth potential in
order to properly plan and focus the eventual expansion of the
program.
The project is in an important sense a pilot effort, designed to chart the way
for a future nationwide program. It is designed to provide practical
experience in the difficulties of assisting SMEs in Nigeria as well as
developing a cadre of trained personnel to implement a national program. The
project would be implemented over a four-year period.
B. Project Description
4.05     Main Features.  The project has two major components:  (1) a line of
credit and technical assistance for institutional strengthening of NBCI and
(2) a training component for federal and state level extension workers. In
addition the project includes a small amount of funds to finance further
sector studies of the small- and medium-scale industries in Nigeria, and a
component to refinance an advance of US$286,500, approved by the Bank under
the Project Preparation Facility, to finance the cost of initial technical
assistance to NBCI and FMI. These components are summarized below:
i)     A line of credit to NBCI for financing of sound SMEs in the
five pilot states (US$35 million) and a comprehensive program
of technical assistance to strengthen NBCI's effectiveness in
financial intermediation (US$1 million including US$165,000
under the PPF);
ii)    A US$4.3 million (including US$121,500 under the PPF)
component for the Federal Mlinistry of Industries to establish
an effective training program for Federal officers, staff of
IDCs and state-level extension workers, thereby developing a
local capability for technical assistance to small and medium
size entrepreneurs;
iii)   A US$0.6 million component for the Federal Ministry of
Industries to carry out studies on the development of the
small- and medium- scale industrial subsector, including the
need for adjustments in the investment and export incentives
and the potential for subcontracting by small NAigerian
contractors and building material producers.
Line of Credit to NBCI
4.06     Purpose.  The credit component, consisting of a line of credit to
NBCI of US$ 35 million, would provide term resources to Nigerian SMEs for
financing of fixed assets and working capital in sound projects. Eligible



- 20 -
borrowers would be 100% Nigerian owned enterprises whose total assets,
including existing and those proposed to be financed under the line, do not
exceed Ni million (US$ 1.51 million) 1/.  Other general eligibility criteria
would include (a) residency within one of the five pilot states; (b) proper
business registration and (c) abi:Lity to provide at least 20% of owners'
contribution to the total project cost. All projects financed under the line
of credit would need to have a local value added of not less than 35% and a
minimum economic rate of return of 10%. Furthermore to ensure that a minimum
share of credit would reach to small scale enterprises and/or labour intensive
projects, at least 30% of the line of credit would be earmarked for
enterprises with total assets I/ not exceeding N300,000 (US$453,000) or for
projects with a cost per job of less than N7,500 (US$11,325) in 1983 constant
prices. NBCI would additionally be required to incorporate a capital
intensity analysis in all its subproject appraisal reports. Subloans to be
refinanced by NBCI under this line of credit are expected to average about
US$0.5 million, which is considerably smaller than the average size (US$2.5
million) of subloans from NIDB, the other intermediary chanelling Bank funds
for the industrial sector.
4.07     Terms and Conditions of Subloans.  The line of credit would finance
up to 100% of the amount of NBCI subloans subject to a ceiling of 70% of the
total sub-project cost, the latter coefficient estimated to represent the
direct and indirect foreign exchange content of SME investments in Nigeria.
Subloans would carry maturities ranging from a minimum of 4 years to a maximum
of 10 years, inclusive of a grace period from 2-4 years. The average maturity
of NBCI's loans to sub-borrowers is expected to be 8 years, inclusive of a 3
year grace period. All subloans would be denominated in Nairas. The FGN
would assume the exchange risk witihout charging any fee to the sub-borrowers,
in view of the lack of sophistication of SMEs and in line with the
government's objective of facilitating their access to credit at a reasonable
cost.
4.08     Interest Rate.  In line with NBCI's rate structure, interest rates
applied to sub-loans under the line of credit would be at least 12% p.a. In
addition, there would also be a front end fee of 1.5% and a commitment fee of
0.75%. These charges would be adjusted in case of any increases in or
additions to the rates and fees charged by NBCI on its overall lending
operations. The adequacy of NBCI's interest rate structure would be reviewed
annually by the Government, NBCI and the Bank, taking into account the CBN
Guidelines, NBCI's average cost of resources and its overall competitiveness.
4.09     Free-Limit.  The first three subprojects from each of NBCI's branches
in the five pilot states would require the Bank's review prior to commitment,
irrespective of their amount. Thereafter, a free limit of US$150,000 per
subloan with an aggregate limit of US$ 10 million would apply. After one full
year of operation these limits would be reviewed and adjusted as appropriate.
1/   Including working capital but not land.



- 21 -
Technical Assistance to NBCI (US$ 1 million including US$165,000 under the
PPF)
4.10     To assist i4BCI in improving its institutional capabilities and
particularly in strengthening its development banking activities in the small-
and medium-scale industry sector, the project would finance the foreign
exchange cost of a comprehensive technical assistance program to NBCI. This
assistance, to be provided by a suitable banking institutlon overseas engaged
in similar activities and/or experienced individual advisors, would focus
mainly on NBCI's small- and medium- scale industry development activities. It
would concentrate on project lending techniques (e.g. project promotion,
appraisal and supervision) while also covering other such areas as branch
operations, accounting, internal control, financial management, portfolio
administration, loan recovery and legal procedures. The program would aim at
managerial and staff training activities through on-the-job coaching and
training visits to similar banking institutions overseas. Implementation of
this program is expected to span over three years and require up to 5 man
years of long term and 3 man years of short-term advisory services in addition
to some 45 man/months of overseas training for NBCI staff.
Training of Extension Workers (US$4.3 million including US$121,500 under the
PPF)
4.11     The training program (detailed in the project file) consists of about
96 manyears of training (about 27 outside Nigeria), covering some 815
participants in 63 different training sessions and courses. Although the
focus of the program would be the training of state-level extension workers in
the five pilot states, it would also include personnel of FMI, IDCs, and NBCI
branches. The training program will be administered in several phases broken
down by course content and target group. Where possible, extensive use would
be made of local consultants and training facilities.
4.12     Implementation of the training program will be the responsibility of
a project monitoring unit within the Small Scale Industries Division of the
Federal Ministry of Industries. This unit, staffed by three full-time
Nigerian officials supported by up to 48 man/months of short-term advisory
services of three expatriate training experts, would design course curricu-a,
lead courses, locate local and external training resource persons, arrange for
training facilities and monitor course participation and attendance. A three
year program outlining the courses by subject, duration and location has been
formulated. The courses would cover small loan management, investment
appraisal, project implementation and supervision. Courses would be geared to
the needs of specific groups and would be largely carried out in the
respective places of work. Staff and facilities of the IDCs, CMD and other
suitable local training institutions would be used to the maximum extent
feasible. Adjustments to the proposed training work program would be made, as
necessary, by the project monitoring unit.
Studies
4.13     In order to lay the groundwork for the eventual expansion coverage of
the SSE program, of which this project represents the pilot phase, it will be
necessary to carry out further studies to identify potential areas for further
small-scale entrepreneurial development. Accordingly, an amount of US$0.6



- 22
million is earmarked to investigate the small-scale industrial subsector,
including the need for adjustment in the incentives, and the present extent of
and potential for sub-contracting with particular reference to the building
materials industry. The findings and recommendations of this study could
provide important inputs into future Bank-supported operations in Nigeria.
This component will be implemented by the FMI.
C. Project Costs, Financing and Onlending Arrangements
4.14      Project costs and financing.  Total project costs are estimated to be
US$68.4 million including US$ 5.1 million in taxes. The foreign exchange
component would be US$40.5 million or 64% of the net project costs. The
proposed Bank loan of US$41 million would finance 65% of net costs, covering
fully the foreign costs and US$ 0.5 million of local costs of the training
component. 1/ Local costs of the credit component would be covered by owners'
contribution and NBCI. The balance of 96% of the local costs not financed by
the Bank loan for the training component would be covered by the Government.
NBCI would fully cover the local costs of its technical assistance program. A
summary breakdown of project costs and financing is provided in the following
tables:
Project Costs
Local        Foreiga        Taxes         Total
$'000  N(000)  $'000 N(000)   $000 N(000)   $000 N(OOO)
Credit component    15,000  9,900 35,000 23,100  5,000 3,300 55,000 36,300
Training (MII)      6,722  4,436  3,765  2,485    -      -   10,487  6,921
Technical
Assistance (NBCI)    483    319    835    551    -     -    1,318    870
Studies (FE)          382    252    598    394    100    66  1,080    712
P.P.F.                147     97    245    162    -      -       392    259
Bank front-end fee    -      -      102     68    -      -       102     68
Total            22,734 15,004 40,545 26,760  5,100 3,366 68,379 45,130
1/   These relate to the local costs (accomodation and subsistence) of
the short-term expatriate training advisors.



- 23 -
Financing Plan
(US$'000)
IBRD     NBCI    Government    Sponsors    Total
Credit                   35,000    9,000          -           11,000   55,000
Training                  4,178       -           6,309          -      10,487
Technical Assistance        835       483                        -       1,318
Studies                     598       -             482          -       1,080
P.P.F.                      287       105           -            -         392
Bank front-end fee          102       -                          -         102
41,000    9,588          6,791       11,000   68,379
4.15     Onlending terms and conditions.  The US$41 million Bank loan
(including a US$0.1 million capitalized front-end fee) would be made to the
Federal Government. Amortization of the Bank's loan to the Federal Government
would be over a period of 17 years, including 4 years grace, in semi-annual
equal payments. Under a subsidiary agreement between the government and NBCI,
US$ 36 million (of which US$35 million for the line of credit and US$1 million
for the technical assistance program) would be on-lent to NBCI. The balance
of US$ 5 million would be passed on to the Federal Ministry of Industries as a
budgetary allocation for the training program and the studies. The portion
on-lent to NBCI would be repaid to the Government in equal semi-annual
installments over a period of 17 years, including a grace period of 4 years.
This fixed amortization schedule would simplify administration and also allow
NBCI to rollover the funds for further on-lending to SMIs. The government
would charge NBCI an interest rate of 9X p.a. This would allow NBCI a spread
of 3 percentage points (12-9), which represents the minimum required by NBCI
for covering its loan processing costs. The differential between the rate
charged to NBCI and the Bank rate would be borne by the government. As
mentioned in para 4.07 the government would also assume the foreign exchange
risk. The front-end fee on the Bank loan would be split pro-rata between FGN
and NBCI. NBCI would also pay the government a commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% on
the undrawn balance. Signing of the subsidiary agreement, between the
government and NBCI, reflecting the above on-lending terms and conditions
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. A separate Project Agreement
between the Bank and NBCI would specify the various terms and conditions
governing the use of the line of credit and the technical assistance
component.



- 24 -
D. Project Implementation
4.16     Monitoring.  As the financial intermediary for the credit component,
NBCI will be required to submit to the Bank semi annual reports on its
financial and operational activities. These would include standard DFC
information including financial statements, arrears and resource positions,
status of loan collections, operations (approvals, commitments,
disbursements), training activities as well as annual and auditors reports.
NBCI will also be required to establish and maintain a proper system, within
its branch offices in the pilot states, for collection and recording, of
relevant data on the sub-projects financed under the line of credit. For the
training component, FMI would be required to maintain financial records
acceptable to the Bank and provide the Bank with semi-annual progress reports
on the implementation of the training component, including advance plans for
the next six months. FMI would also maintain a tracer system of course
graduates, in order to monitor the impact of the program and maintain an
inventory of course graduates and their acquired skills.
4.17     Procurement.  Procurement of equipment and goods under the credit
component is not suitable for international competitive bidding given the
relatively small size of investments to be financed under the line of credit.
NBCI's procurement guidelines are adequate, but have not in the past been
rigorously enforced. For purchases above a certain amount, these guidelines
usually require canvassing from the main sources of supply and comparison of
price quotations from at least three suppliers. To ensure NBCI's compliance
to these guidelines, which are in line with normal DFC practice, the Bank, as
a part of project supervision and in addition to the subproject review
process, would require NBCI to maintain detailed information on procurement
procedures followed for each subproject. Such information would be
periodically reviewed by the Bank. Procurement of services for the training
component, studies and technical assistance to NBCI would be on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.18     Technical Assistance to NBCI and Consultancy Services to FMI.  The
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment of the advisors to NBCI
and short-term consultants to FMI would be subject to the Bank approval. At
government's and NBCI's request, the Bank is actively assisting in identifying
and selecting these advisors/consultants and would be monitoring their
performance. Provision has ben made to finance a total of 5 man years of long
term and 7 man/years (including 4 man/years for the training program) of
short-term advisory services at a total cost of US$2.4 million, including
US$0.2 million for contingencies, of which foreign costs represent US$1.4
million. The average cost of these services is expected to be the equivalent
of US$16,500 per man month, local and all other costs included, of which
approximately 50% would represent reimbursable expenses (housing, travel,
transport, relocation etc.)
4.19     Disbursement.  Disbursement applications for the line of credit and
the NBCI technical assistance program would be made by NBCI and for those
related to the training program and the studies by the Federal Ministry of
Industries. All disbursements both under the credit and non credit components
would be fully documented. For the line of credit the bank would disburse up
to 100% of the amount of approved NBCI subloans up to a ceiling of 70% of net
subproject costs. The non-credit proceeds of the loan would be disbursed as
follows:



- 25 -
i)     100% of foreign expenditures for advisory services to and
overseas staff training of NBCI (US$835,000);
ii)    100% of expenditures for the overseas training costs of FMI,
IDC and State Ministry officers (US$3,314,000);
iii)   100% of total costs for services of the training  advisors to
the Federal Ministry of Industry   (US$864,500);
iv)    100% of foreign costs for the studies (US$597,756);
v)     Reimbursement of the advance under PPF (US$286,500).
A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown in annex VIII.
E. Benefits and Risks
4.20     Benefits.  The promotion of the SME subsector is essential to the
establishment of a viable and balanced industrial sector in Nigeria. Yet,
despite good potential for growth, development of this subsector has been
constrained by the unavailability of adequate financing and the relative
weakness of the supporting financial and technical assistance agencies. A
major benefit expected from the project is that by strengthening NBCI's
institutional and financial capabilities and upgrading the skills of the
Federal and State-level extension workers, the project would make an important
contribution towards alleviating these constraints. The improvement in the
provision of extension services and in NBCI's financial intermediation would
in turn stimulate investments in the subsector and enhance the quality of SME
development in Nigeria. An added benefit would be that by requiring all
investments under the project to locate in one of the five pilot states and to
meet the Bank's usual criteria of economic, financial and technical viability,
the project would contribute to the promotion and realization of more
efficient enterprises away from the traditional centers of industrial
development, such as Lagos. Finally, as mentioned in para 4.06, investments
to be financed by NBCI under the project are expected to be considerably
smaller than those supported by NIDB, the other financial intermediary
receiving DFC-type lines of credit from the Bank, thus enabling the Bank,
under this project, to reach enterprises at the lower end of the industrial
spectrum.
4.21     Risks.  The project attempts to break new ground in Nigeria by
providing integrated assistance to SMEs. A primary risk inherent to all new
efforts such as this is that they are susceptible to delays in putting in
place the delivery structure. An added risk relates to NBCI's personnel and
administrative constraints which could hinder smooth project implementation.
The project seeks to reduce these risks by including a package of technical
assistance and training for the staff of FMI, NBCI and the extension
agencies. Another risk relates to subloans being made by NBCI on grounds
other than subproject merits. The project seeks to minimize this risk by
ensuring the establishment of and compliance with acceptable appraisal
criteria and standards.



- 26 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations, the following agreements have been reached:
(a) with the Government on
i)   the assumption of the foreign exchange risk by the
Government (paras 4.07 and 4.15);
ii)  the amendments in NBCI's charter to limit the term of
office of NBCI'S directors (para. 3.03);
iii) the on-lending arrangements between the Government and
NBCI, including an on-lending rate of 9% (para. 4.15);
iv)  the terms and conditions of NBCI's subloans (paras 4.06,
4.07, and 4.08);
v)   annual review with the Bank on the adequacy of NBCI's
interest rate structure (para. 4.08).
(b) with NBCI on
i)   measures to avoid foreign exchange risk exposure on all
foreign loans (para. 3.05);
(ii) the debt equity limit which is not to exceed 5:1
(para. 3.17);
iii) subloan terms and conditions (Paras 4.06,4.07,4.08 and
4.09).
5.02     Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
NBCI, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.15), and the approval by NBCI's Board
of its Policy Statement (para. 3.04), will be conditions of loan
effectiveness.
5.03     On the basis of the above maentioned agreements, a Bank loan of
US$41 million is recommended for the proposed project.



- 27 -                                   ANNEX I
NIGERIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECTS
LIST OF NBCI'S MEMBERS OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
As of July 31, 1983
NAME                  DESIGNATION                     OCCUPATION
1.  MR. D.D. ACHAKPA                 MEMBER                BUSINESSMAN
2.  MR. J.A. AMAO                      if                  PUBLIC SERVANT & BANKER
3.  LT. COL. S.B. AWODEYI              if                  BUSINESSMAN
4.  DR. S.A. DAVID-WEST                it                  COLLEGE OF EDUCATION LECTURER
5.  ALHAJI M. GASHASH                                      INDUSTRIALIST AND BUSINESSMAN
6.  REV. B.O. IKOBI                                        CLERGYMAN
7.  ALHAJI SULE KATAGUM              CHAIRMAN              BUSINESSMAN & COMMUNITY LEADER
8.  ALHAJI D. KUTIGI                 MEMBER                LOCAL GOVT. COUNCILOR &
BUSINESSMAN
9.  MALLAM M. NGILERUMA                                    BUSINESSMAN
10.  COL. H.N. NJOKU                                        BUSINESSMAN
11.  MR. G.C. AKWAEZE               M. D. NBCI              BANKER AND CHARTERED ACCOUNTANr
12.  DR. J.E. OKUNDAYE                MEMBER                AGRONOMIST AND CONSULTANT
13.  MR. C.F.I. OLANIYAN                n                   EDUCATIONIST AND BUSINESSMAN
14.  DR. S.D. OLAOYE                                        BUSINESSMAN
15.  MR. E.A. OYENUGA                                       CIVIL SERVANT
WAPID
July 1983



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
NATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
Organization Chart
(Head Office)
naging
Director
!General Manager   f     [eneral Manager             General Manage            General Manager
ICorporate services       Investments                Administration|           *Merchant Banking]
Internal
Audit                           Loan Recovery            Investment                   Administration           Merchant       I
Dept                                 Unit     |ppraisal Dept. ,                        Dept. I                  Banking
(General)               _Dept
Finance                 |InvestmeFn                  Adminis +|                Investment
Dept.                   Supervisiont                 Iept                      Promotion
Dept.
gLegal|               lBranch Office                Branch offices            Leasing'
|Dept.                  'Investments  |dministration                           Dept.
WAPID
July 1983



ANNEX I I
rla:4F     FC   ANn 1flfn':%T,,Y
ORGANISA1I'IN CHARTr FOR N1Ct ot,StESNiWIV! eFICLS Al ONO, PLATEAU.  M6SS RIVER, IO AND N:GER ITAWES                                            Page  2  of  2
hERAkD  OFFICES
NIGER                                   '       m tFMUM d\^i                                                          PLATEAU                      tO1.4
C|tOLLE*  | ,                               CCNTROLLU    C|                    I  LLER                             LL R
1- .                                         lAs&ibtont                                  A-.         stt |.biFtcr,t                                              t
^^ .ct *-Y   !  t  .         | Sr t tz             ! Cont                             Ex.                                                         H 
I~~~ ._ _    --- I                                                                                                                                                                -- _'    _
f                                                                                                                              I~~~~~~~~~aie 
*,iv~~.,,tic  f                I ~Confiden&LCotlntiall                                                                                             Cidelj.t.ok 
socr*toty                                                                   -.0Sereo:y*C 1OY
s   -  .  _ I __ _.~ 
'i    |  *   XTrein   * 2              j  Iypi&t * 2                        I..& l    -    t,
I'  I              -'Conijdentic                                                                            At. Invcst    I
|      /                         | ~~~~~~~~C1nidenk e                       j 4lro  *     1(tv           tte:st3                                                    12
_~~~~~~ _,                            __                                                                         1                           ____
S:.:erk; 2     g  -                         C!erks . 4                                Rece;tiv.l   I |          .            z2  * 3   |           !      ;tt -
.           .    I        ,                       -       'I   I                    -     I'-                            ' 
t~~~~~~~~~~~ v-j*~I. * *                                                                                                                                 Zr         ,God.4 |5;:>r             X-fw  
Drj, .ers   2  -lonnr    I                                                             4
WAP ID
July 1983



ANNEX III
NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND
INDUSTRY
Sectoral Distribution of Loan, Equity and Guarantee Approvals
( N thousand)
Sub-Sectors                          Loans             Equity            Guarantees           Total          Percentage
Food & Beverage                      60,654            8,930              30,537              100,121            30.1
Textiles                              5,150              400                -                   5,550             1.7
Wood & wooden Products               17,470              784               8,517               26,771             8J1
Pulp & Paper Products                 3,065              200                  697               3,962             1.2
Iron & Steel                          6,750              672                   -                7,422             2.2
Metal Products                       20,827            3,576               4,946               29,349             8.8
Chemical Industries                   5,179              562                   -                5,741             1.7
Construction Products                62,293            6,843              17,826               86,962            26.2
Electric Goods & Appliances           1,165               60                   -                1,225             0.4
Tourism, Hotels & Entertainment    23,620              3,217                   -               26,837             8.1
Other Manufacturing Industries        6,228              842               5,258               12,328             3.7
Other Service Industries             23,950            1,154                  750              25,854             7.8
236,351          27,240               68,531             332,122           100.0
Percentage                     71.2             8.2                 20.6                  100
WAPID
July 1983



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIAN BANK FOR CON8MERCE AND INDUSTRY
REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF APPROVAL-S
NBCI PARTICIPATION
STATE       _          TUNBER OF EROvECTS SLNCTIONED                   EQUITY            L,OAN           GUARANTEE            TOTAL
N ' 000          N ' 000          N'000              N'000
ANAMBRA                         23                                      2,087.0           15,467.0         7,700.0            25,254.0
BAUCRI                          10                                      3,620.0           24,913.6         8,310.0            36,843.6
BENDEL                          32                                      1,792.7           13,911.4        10,+37.4            26,141.5
BENUE                           10                                      4,070.0           20,105.0            -               24,17i.0
BORNO                           18                                      1,840.0            9,598.0         1,612.0            13,050.0
CROSS RIVER                     10                                        830.0           10,752.5            -               11,582.5
GONGOLA                          6                                        175.0            2,945.0         1,127.0             4,247.0
IMO                             21                                        399.0           10,762.0        6,271.0             17,432.3
KADUNA                           9                                        654.0            9,774.0            -               10,428.0
KANO                            22                                      1,081.0           11,829.3         8,015.0            20,925.3
KWARA                           15                                      1,235.8           10,445.0         2,382.0            14,062.8
LAGOS                           33                                      2,095.0           34,385.0            -               36,480.0
NIGER                           13                                      1,550.0           10,719.0         1,282.0            13,351.0
OGUN                            14                                      1,011.8            8,100.0         1,631.0            10,742.8
WAPID
July 1983



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF APPROVALS
.BCI PARTICIPATION
STATE               NUMBER OF PROJECTS SANCTIONED                   EQUITY            LOAN            GUARANTEE          TOTAL
ONDO                         10                                        652.0          9,114.3            _               9,766.3
OYO                          21                                        712.0         11,106.0            -              11,818.0
PLATEAU                       9                                        100.0          3,391.5          697.2             4,183.7
RIVERS                       14                                        255.0          7,357.0        9,800.0            17,412.0
SOKOTO                       13                                         88.0          7,494.8           -                7,582.8
ABUJA ---------------------   5___________________----------- 3000 .0                 4z236 0.. 91267.2 _ __            16583.2
306                                    27,248.3         236,405.7      68,531.8            332,185.8
WAPID
July 1983



AN=  V
NCI
Compaxtive Inccme Statenent S Jmnaxy
(N 'OX0)
1977/78      1978/79        1979/80        198) 2/        1931        1982
Provisional -
Gross Incri                                 3,270         5,140          5,860       5,016            9,341      15,Z74
Less:  XYnnce Charges                     8         1,355          1,484                        4,259      _7,951
Gross Margin                           3,262        3,785          4,376        3,595           5,C82       7,323
Less: Admin. & Gen. Exp.                    1,70D         2,328          2,633       2,631            5,948       7,969
Depreciatici                             197          365            420         371              576       1,119
Inccas before prov. & taxes            1,365          960        '1,323          500           (1,442)    (1,765)
Provisiorm for portfolio losses           6           178            970          610             950           - 3/
Taxes
Net Incaz                              1,359          782            353         (110)         (2,392)     (1,765)
1/  Audit Report on NBCI's for the year ended Deo6nber 31, 1982, are still in progress, and audited accounts are expected
about mid-1963, thus these are provisional figures obtained from N13I.
2/  Due to a change in NBCI's fiscal year to correspond to the calendar year, the figures for 199D cover only 9 months (April-
December) 1980.
3/ The required amount of provisions against portfolio losses for this year is still being discussed between NBCI and the
auditors, and according to the mission's best estimate (based upon discussios with NBCI), is likely to be around
N2million for this year.
WAr P I D
July 1983



- 34 -
ANNEX VI
NIGERIAN B14K FOR COMECE AND IN;USIEY
COu1PABATIVE BlANCE SI
(N 'C)3)
1982      1961    198D    79/80     78/79  77/78
Provisional
1          2       3       4         5       6
ASSErS
Current Assets
Cash & Bank 2alnces                     25,115   14,201   13,049    6,271       362    3,049
Nigerian Government Treasury Bills           -        -        -    1 ,445    3,605   17,306
Bank Deposits                           38,974   37,0D0   30,0C0    7,000   17,693    2,252
bnkers Unit Funds                                     -        -        -         -        -
Bills & Certificates                         -        -    2,304             -             -
Quoted Shares                                -        9        9        9         9        9
Prepayments & Sundries                   7,982    7,924    4,048    3,900    5,966    1,591
Interest Receivable (Clients)           12,364    7,751    6,553    5,047    4,619    2,447
Bills Discounted                         3,046    5,091  1j2            -         -        -
89,221   71,976   56,967   23,672   32,254   26,654
Long-Term Investments
Federal Governmnt Dev. Loan Stock        6,0DD    6,0)3    6,0D0    6,00D    6,000    6,000
Loans & Debentures 1/                  133,138   76,986   64,553   62,282   57,639   36,736
Unquoted Shares (at cost)               14,328   13,291   tt,171    10,937    8,759    7,857
153,466   96,277   81,724   79,219   72,398   50,593
Other Assets
Capital Work in Progress                     -      940      733                  -        -
ixed Assets (Less Depreciation)         15,926    3,389    1,914    1,906    1,930    1,811
Customers Liab. for confirmed credits   54,765   18,050      790    2,526   11,720    8,765
70,691    22,329    3,437    4,434   13,650   10,576
TPAL ASSHTIS                           313,378  19D,582  142,128  107,325  118,302   87,823
CAPITAL & LIABlETIE
Capital Reserves
Share Capital                           50,0)3   50,00D   50,0DD   50,0)0   50,0)0   50,0))
Reserves & Surplus                       5,006      2C5    2,478    2,586    2,763    1,981
Federal Governnent Building Grant          750      750      750      750       750      750
55,756   50,955   53,228   53,338   53,513   52,731
Current Liabilities
Deposits                                35,220   10,822   10,510   13,546   25,274    5,160
Creditors & Acczuals                    12,737    5,355    2,977    2,582    3,5o6       544
Bank Overdraft                          11,580    1,372    4,423    5,131    4,089       423
59,537   17,549   17,910   21,259   32,869    6,127
Long Term Loans
Federal Goverrsent /2                  142,575  104,878   70,200   30,200   2D,203   20,203
Bargn Granf al                             745                      -                      -
143,320  104,078   70,200   30,200   20,200   20,000
Other Liabilities
Liabilities on confirmed credits for
customers         54,765   18,0DD      790    2,528   11,720    8,765
TOTAL CAPITAL & LIABTIT                313,378  190,582  142,128  107,325  118,302   87,823
WAPID
July 1983
'   Ln c    -ucdes )boans under the tanaWed SSdIC cn    ene.
J      nc u es  orwings for tne   nagedI bch' btme.



ANNEX VII
NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
RESOURCE POSITION AS AT 31ST DECEMBER,1982
DOMESTIC FUNDS                                ( N'OOO)                                  SOURCES                          FO_EIGN FUNDS
$1000
Sources
Equity                                           55.8
Borrowings:
1. F.G.N. Loans             142.5                                                   Borrowings (Line of Credit)             20.0
2. Short-term Deposits       35.2                                                                                           20.0
3. Other                     11.5            189.2
' A '                        245.0
Uses:
Net Fixed Assets                                 15.9
Other Assets                                      6.0
Equity Investment                                14.3
Domestic Currency Loans                         133.1                                   Foreign Currency Loan to Clients           3.0
Undisbursed Commitments:                                                                Undisbursed Commitments:
Loan                      18.0                                                         Loan                               17.0
Equity                     4.0           22.0                                          Equity                              -
B  '                      191.3                                                                            $20,000
Net Domestic Resources Available                 53.7
For Commitments (A-B)
Uncommitted Approvals                            12,9                                   Net Foreign Funds Available
Amount Available for New commitments             40.8                                                                                          WAPID
Less short-term Borroiwmigs                      35.2                                                                                          July 1983
Net Amount available for new commitments          5.6



- 36 -
ANNEX VIII
NIGERIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE
PROJECT
1/
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US $'000)
Fiscal Year (ending June 30)                         Disbursements    Cumulative   Cumulative
1984                                                   (amount)          (amount)   (percentage.
Third Quarter                                       80,000            80,000
Fourth Quarter                                      80,000           160,000        0.4
1985
First Quarter                                      900,000         1,060,000
Second Quarter                                     900,000         1,960,000
Third Quarter                                    1,620,000         3,580,000
Fourth Quarter                                   1,620,000         5,200,000       12.7
1986
First Quarter                                    2,075,000         7,275,000
Second Quarter                                   2,075,000         9,350,000
Third Quarter                                    2,275,000        11,625,000
Fourth Quarter                                   2,275,000        13,900,000       33.9
1987
First Quarter                                    2,275,000        16,175,000
Second Quarter                                   2,275,000        18,450,000
Third Quarter                                    2,150,000        20,600,000
Fourth Quarter                                   2,150,000        22,750,000       55.5
1988
First Quarter                                    1,925,000        24,675,000
Second Quarter                                   1,925,000        26,600,000
Third Quarter                                    1,700,000        28,300,000
Fourth Quarter                                   1,700,000        30,000,000       73.2
1/  Based on East & West Africa IDF Disbursement Profile
WAPID
September 1983



- 37 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
1989
First Quarter                                   1,450,000            31,450,000
Second Quarter                                  1,450,000            32,900,000
Third Quarter                                   1,200,000            34,100,000
Fourth Quarter                                  1,200,000            35,300,000    86.1
1990
First Quarter                                     960,000            36,260,000
Second Quarter                                    960,000            37,220,000
Third Quarter                                     800,000            38,020,000
Fourth Quarter                                    800,000            38,820,000    94.7
1991
First Quarter                                     600,000            39,420,000
Second Qtiarter                                   600,000            40,020,000
Third Quarter                                     490,000            40,510,000
Fourth Quarter                                    490,000            41,000,000   100.0
WAPID
September 1983



- 38 -
Annex IX
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
I.   General Economic and Sector Background Information
- eNigeria-Non-Oil Exports Prospectso, June 1982, World Bank
Report No. 3771-UNI. (Includes chapters and annexes on industry).
- #Nigeria-Basic Economic Reporto, August 1981, World Bank Report
No. 3341-UNI. (For macro economic background)
- #Nigeria- The Industrial Incentives System: A review and Analysis
of some Approaches to its Adjustment), World Bank Report (Green
Cover) No. 4272-UNI, January 1983.
- #Financial Intermediation in Nigerian, February 15, 1983, World
Bank Report No. 4051-UNI.
- XThe Industrial Sector of Nigeria)> (World Bank - Bernard Decaux,
consultant) June 1979 (includes overviews of several subsectors).
- Federal Republic of Nigeria -aNigerian Industrial Policy and
Strategy: Guidelines to Investors) (1980).
4xNigeria - Building Materials Industry Study) World Bank/UNIDO
cooperative Programme/NIDB, September 1982.
- gNigeria - Industrial Sector Strategy Memorandum)s World Bank,
October 1, 1981.
II. National Bank for Commerce and Industry
- Decree No. 22 of April 2, 1973, establishing NBCI
- NBCI Bye-Laws
- Booklet on Operating Policies and Procedures
- Sample Loan Agreement
- Sample Appraisal and Supervision Reports
- Five year Strategy Plan
- Job description and proposed plan of action for the Loan Recovery Unit
WAPID
July 1983



- 39 -
Annex IX
Page 2 of 2
- Five Year Financial Projections (working draft)
- Pipeline of Projects
- Annual Reports and Financial Statements
III.   Federal Ministry of Industries
- Outline of the Training Component
- Survey for the Development of Small Scale Industries
(3 volumes,1982)
- Proposed Arrangements for the Establishment of the Project
Monitoring Unit.
WAPID
July 1983






[V C'[ 'ME '/t 
~~- L cH ~t C'M = ' =-                                                                                                                                                                  C;  A ''''j7,r~'fS'tr-- ;v- ;,1
K.bb,               /                            K"-L                                                                        D                     G/b/o b,                                t
; ; i'/      i                                                                                                                                                       ^Pp                  tsCo<1  A            Br  MABUGU   ipR  b t E  BD  )  20 
KAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
I0     \ '/                                                                                               >a      <R                 -yt                    Rd.'
Xi  -   Se  Futfl>  ndiso  Nosolowa t t r ' r  > oVVKs  
B  E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N  IN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    Z.  
B ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.
B (N                                                                         NAt    cIAMNSTAIEP  IIN
AFRICA                                                                           M~BU                     C    MI~RQO                                '              "~"""' SBta RRRN4ObAR
i .                  ' " 12                              k                                      A1D                                                                                       I  R3B + 'S2DD +----t<~4/BB   BBARBf 1 :IB i;0'':';g : f ;;;RB   
<B       U    5: l                 B RO         A   h   ,'YoE i 3t  :_As3.   ''  0   '; >   ; <   ;Ap"'        /:N  $5X!      n
V. I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I Bj Th
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. J 9 / o st)X                                 )NLs     -    j T>*>j>wb2i g| " :   SA b 2 
3i., e _  _                  r~\ mS    Ub 11s  i {  unsu                                                 -fiHpi  -ti1a>0                        Lws3gNtSTwp|$l;iQNftd;h
r XS \(olt/  t  r- \(-  \ su4/\ , 1.  OdfAz|5'2 <7itg ,                          k                                                                       15\     ;0 ;0 \0t4; 
:    P.;[y:\i:5    iwa,      ER       <m       afC        t              t :gi  b         ;:     ;;      :> ;eb       i -T:'0L             ilGL        4      3              2iff
>--rtCefi2   p9 Z                    \<                           Z                                i      0   <         g1ee          LLi\h  i;i294.u;5      .,    S  i i0  i    5;\               0|   2 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EII g  LC'R/X: fVoPRU   : If,3                                                                                                                            i       ii;+5       a ;i:E7tff l 5' '1t  :XT A-  ".d2 
_   _                                  :-. f  1 \   2tAI^l k;).t'sy  - -->OD bo- ~~~~~~~~~~~ S   _ F, :.F



