OFFAMIAL
LOAN NUMBER 2376 UNI
Project Agreement
(Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
Dated     5   61a  ar, 1984


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   /    4e aft-  /&           , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
(hereinafter called NBCI), a statutory     corporation established
pursuant to the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry Act,
1973.
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-
one million dollars ($41,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that NBCI
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are herein-
after set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into by the
Borrower and NBCI, the Borrower will out of the proceeds of the
Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement relend to NBCI an amount
or amounts equivalent to thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000)
or such other amount or amounts as shall be allocated to Categories
(1) and (3) in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement on the terms and
conditions therein set forth;
WHEREAS NBCI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the res-
pective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Management and Operations of NBCI
Section 2.01. (a) NBCI shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and conduct its
operations and affairs with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial and banking stan-
dards and practices, with qualified and experienced management and
in accordance with the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry
Act, 1973 and the Policies and Procedures.
(b) NBCI shall no later than June 30, 1984 furnish the Bank
and the Borrower with proposals for revising the Nigerian Bank for
Commerce and Industry Act, 1973 with a view to including in the
said Act provisions prescribing: (i) a maximum number for the mem-
bership of NBCI's Board of Directors; and (ii) such other terms and
conditions as will ensure the efficient management and operation of
NBCI.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the pro-
visions of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, NBCI shall send
Sub-loans to the Bank for approval or for authorization for with-
drawals to be made from the Loan Account.
(b)   When sending a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval, NBCI shall furnish to the Bank an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a
description of the small-or medium-scale enterprise and of the SME
Project to be financed thereunder (including a description of the
expenditures for such SME Project proposed to be financed by NBCI
and an appraisal of the SME Project) and the proposed terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
of the Sub-loan, and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NBCI
shall include in any such appraisal an analysis of capital inten-
sity and a reasonable estimate of the internal financial and econo-
mic rates of return of the SME Project concerned in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) Each request by NBCI for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan
shall contain a summary description of the small- or medium-scale
enterprise and the SME Project (including a description of the


﻿- 3 -
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan,
including the amortization schedule therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the
Bank and NBCI shall otherwise agree: (i) shall not extend beyond
ten (10) years from the date of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal quarterly or more aggregate pay-
ments of principal and interest or approximately equal quarterly or
more frequent payments of principal.
(e) NBCI shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior approval
any substantial changes proposed to be made by NBCI in respect of
the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
(f) Except as the Bank and NBCI shall otherwise agree, NBCI
shall send applications for approval of Sub-loans pursuant to
paragraph (b) above and requests for authorizations to withdraw
from the Loan Account pursuant to paragraph (c) above on or before
June 30, 1988.
Section 2.03. (a) NBCI undertakes that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby NBCI
shall obtain, by written agreement or other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and of
NBCI, including, in the case of any such Sub-loan: (i) the right
to require the small- or medium-scale enterprise to carry out and
operate the SME Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards
and to maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to require that
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan be used exclusively in the carrying out of the SME Pro-
ject; (iii) the right of the Bank and of NBCI to inspect such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the SME
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and docu-
ments; (iv) the right to require that the small- or medium-scale
enterprise take out and maintain such insurance, against such risks
and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice and that, without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-
loan to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity
thereunder be payable in a currency freely usable by the small- or
medium-scale enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) the


﻿-4-
right to obtain all such information as the Bank or NBCI shall rea-
sonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of the small- or medium-
scale enterprise; and (vi) the right of NBCI to suspend or termi-
nate the right of the small- or medium-scale enterprise to the use
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such small- or
medium-scale enterprise to perform its obligations under its agree-
ment with NBCI.
(b) NBCI shall exercise its rights in relation to each SME
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank
and of NBCI; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. NBCI shall furnish to the Bank all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expendi-
ture of the proceeds of the Sub-loans, Part A of the Project, the
small- or medium-scale enterprises, the SME Projects  and the Sub-
loans.
Section 2.05. NBCI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, NBCI shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving
any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) The lending terms and conditions and eligi-
bility criteria for Sub-loans shall include those set forth in
Parts A and B of the Schedule hereto.
(b) Until the Closing Date, NBCI shall exchange views with
the Borrower and the Bank annually or at such other times as the
Borrower, the Bank and NBCI may determine, on NBCI's overall
interest rate policy and shall for the purposes of such exchange of
views include among the matters to be considered any development in
Government guidelines on interest rates, NBCI's average cost of
resources and its overall competitiveness.
Section 2.07. Except as the Bank and NBCI shall otherwise
agree, NBCI: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.08. NBCI shall cause any subsidiary to observe and
perform the obligations of NBCI under this Agreement to the extent
to which the same may be made applicable thereto as though such
obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.09. NBCI shall not amend the Policies and Proce-
dures in any material respect except after consultation with the
Bank, and shall exchange   views with the Bank on any proposal to
modify the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry Act, 1973.
Section 2.10. In order to carry out Part A of the Project,
NBCI shall employ consultants whose qualifications and experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance with prin-
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. NBCI shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to monitor and record the progress of
Part A of the Project and of each SME Project (including the cost
thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the operations and financial con-
dition of NBCI.
Section 3.02. NBCI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for each such year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, the management report of the
auditors; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank and NBCI shall otherwise
agree, NBCI shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt
of NBCI and all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding
would exceed five times the consolidated capital and surplus of
NBCI and all its subsidiaries. For the purpose of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by NBCI or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
NBCI or by a subsidiary.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the incur-
ring of debt, such reference shall include any modification of the
terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date and to the
extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan contract or
agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but
only to the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Naira debt payable in foreign cur-
rency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate
of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable in Nigeria for the purposes of servicing such
debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of NBCI and all its subsi-
diaries" means the total amount of debt of NBCI and all its sub-
sidiaries excluding (i) debt owed by NBCI to any subsidiary or by
any subsidiary to NBCI or to any other subsidiary; and (ii) debt
referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this Section.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of NBCI and
all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the total un-
impaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of NBCI and of
all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as
shall represent equity interests of NBCI in any subsidiary, or of
any such subsidiary in NBCI or in any other subsidiary; and (ii)
such amount of any other loan which the Bank may determine to be
included in the consolidated capital and surplus of NBCI.
Section 3.04. NBCI shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss


﻿- 7 -
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
various currencies (including Naira) used in its borrowing and
lending operations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Bank and NBCI shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that
end, the Bank and NBCI shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance by
NBCI of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of NBCI and other matters relating to the purpose of the Loan.
(b) NBCI shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditures of the proceeds of the Loan, Part A of the Pro-
ject, the small- or medium-scale enterprises, the SME Projects, the
Sub-loans, the procurement procedures followed by SME Projects and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(c) Within six months after the Closing Date, NBCI shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
of Part A of the Project including the initial operation of the SME
Projects, their costs and the   benefits derived and to be derived
from them, the performance by NBCI and the Bank of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Loan.
Section 4.02. NBCI shall promptly inform the Bank of any con-
dition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the pur?oses of the Loan, the maintenance of the
service thereof or the performance by NBCI of its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of NBCI thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly so notify NBCI thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permit-
ted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter speci-
fied or at such other address as such party shall have designated
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                     24423  (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)
For NBCI:
Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry
26 Idejo S%reet,
Off Adeola Odeky
P.O. Box 4424
Lagos
Nigeria


﻿-9-
Cable address:                       Telex:
NIBACIND                             21917 NBCI
Lagos
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement or under Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement on behalf of
NBCI may be taken or executed by NBCI's Managing Director or by
such other person or persons as NBCI shall designate in writing,
and NBCI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority. and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
4$-cn4 Regional Vice President
Western Africa
NIGERIAN BANK FOR COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Part A:   Lending Terms and Conditions for Sub-loans:
1.   The interest payable by a small- or medium-scale enterprise
on a Sub-loan made by NBCI shall be not less than twelve percent
(12%) per annum.
2.   A commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per-
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum shall be paid on the principal amount of
a Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time. Repayment of principal
of a Sub-loan shall be in not less than four years nor more than 10
years from the date of the Loan Agreement, including a grace period
of two to four years.
3.   Before initial disbursement of a Sub-loan, a one-time front-
end fee of one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) shall be paid on the
principal amount of the Sub-loan to cover administrative and other
documentation expenses.
4.   Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, any increases in, or
additions to, the rates or fees charged by NBCI on its lending
operations shall be applied to the Sub-loans.
5.   All Sub-loans shall be denominated and repayable in Naira.
Part B:   Eligibility Criteria:
1.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall not
be made:
(a) to an enterprise:
(i) which does not fall within the definition of a
small- or medium-scale enterprise as set forth in
Section 1.02 (e) of the Loan Agreement;
(ii) which is not located in any of the following
States of Nigeria, namely: Cross River, Imo, Niger,
Ondo and Plateau States;
(iii) the owner of which cannot demonstrate an ability  to
contribute at least twenty percent (20%) to the
total cost of the SME Project concerned; or


﻿- 11 -
(iv) which is not properly registered in accordance
with the applicable laws and regulations; or
(b) for a project: (i) which has a local value-added of less
than thirty-five percent (35%), or (ii) which is not economically
viable, or (iii) which has an economic rate of return of less than
ten percent (10%).


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of FICw' 198-.
FOR SECRETARY


