Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17709
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
POWER TRANSMISSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3626-PH)
APRIL 17, 1998
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1997)
Currency Unit             =       Philippine Peso (P)
P1.00                     =       US$0.025
US$1.00                   =       P40.00
P1.00                     =       100 Centavos
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                Asian Development Bank
BOT                Build-Operate-Transfer
BPS                Bureau of Product Standards
BTO                Build-Transfer-Operate
COP                Committee on Privatization
DA                 Department of Agriculture
DAR                Department of Agrarian Reform
DBM                Department of Budget and Management
DENR               Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOE                Department of Energy
DOF                Department of Finance
DOST               Energy Coordinating Committee
DSR                Debt Service Ratio
DTI                Department of Trade and Industry
ECC                Energy Coordinating Council
EHV                Extra High Voltage
EOIS               Efficiency and Operational Improvement Study (NPC)
ERB                Energy Regulatory Board
ESP                Energy Sector Plan
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
ICC                Investment Coordinating Committee
IDP                International Development Planners
IPP                Independent Power Producer
MW                 Megawatt (1,000,000 Watts)
NEA                National Electrification Administration
NEDA               National Economic and Development Authority
NPC                National Power Corporation
OEA                Office of Energy Affairs
OP                 Office of the President
OPSF               Oil Price Stabilization Fund
PCIERD             Philippine Council for Industry and Energy Research
PD                 Presidential Decree
PDP                Power Development Program (NPC)
PHRD               Policy and Human Resources Development
PNOC               Philippine National Oil Corporation
PNOC-EDC           PNOC Energy Development Corporation
PU                 Public Utility
RA                 Republic Act
REC                Rural Electric Cooperative
ROM                Rehabilitate-Operate-Maintain
RORB               Return on Rate Base
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
Regional Vice President       Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director              Vinay Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Manager                Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Manager                  Mohammad Farhandi, EASEG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
POWER TRANSMISSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3626-PH)
Table Of Contents
Preface.1
Evaluation Summary .................................................                                                                    iii
PART I Implementation Assessment .................................................1I
A.  Statement[Evaluation of Objectives ..................................................I
B.  Achievement of Objectives ..................................................3
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................................6
D.  Project Sustainability ..................................................8
E. Bank Performance ..................................................8
F.  Borrower Performance .................................................                                                   10
G.  Assessment of Outcome ..................................................11
H.  Future Operation ..................................................11
I.   Key Lessons Learned .................................................                                                   12
PART II Statistical Annexes .................................................. .                                                        13
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .14
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4: Loan Disbursements .15
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:  Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation .18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .27
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing .29
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .30
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .31
Table 11:   Compliance with Operation Manual Statements ...........................................                          32
Table 12:   Bank Resources - Staff Inputs ...........................................                                        32
Table 13:   Bank Resources - Missions ...........................................                                            33
Appendices ..................................................                                                                           34
A.  ICR  Mission Aide-Memoire .................................................                                              35
B.  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR .................................................                                     40
C.  Borrower's Comments on the ICR .................................................. 47
Map (IBRD 24234)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by the recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
POWER TRANSMISSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power Transmission and
Rehabilitation Project in the Republic of the Philippines, for which Loan 3626-PH in the amount of
US$110 million equivalent was approved on August 13, 1993, and made effective on December 6, 1993.
Loan 3626-PH was closed on December 31, 1997, compared with the original closing date of
December 30, 1996.  Final disbursement is expected to take place by April 30, 1998.  Some
US$55.45 million was canceled on August 25, 1995, and an additional US$2.95 million was canceled on
January 14, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Calum Gunn, Consultant, EASEG, and Leo Rodaje, Operations
Officer, EACPF, under the supervision of Mohammad Farhandi, Principal Energy Specialist, Energy and
Mining Sector Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Region. The ICR was cleared by Yoshihiko Sumi, Sector
Manager, EASEG.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in October 1997 followed by an ICR mission in November
1997. It is based on material in the project file as well as data provided by the Borrower. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by stating their views as reflected in the mission's Aide
Memoire (Appendix A), by preparing their own evaluation of the Project's execution (Appendix B), and
by commenting on the draft ICR (Appendix C).






- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
POWER TRANSMISSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3626-PH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.     This Project is one in a recent series of loans outlining a major reform program for the Philippine
energy sector, and for the power sector in particular. Each project, to some extent, involves the same
Borrower, the National Power Corporation (NPC); the key player in the power sector.' Central aspects of
this reform program include ensuring NPC's financial viabifity and strengthening its institutional
capacity, and vertically and horizontally unbundling the Corporation in preparation for privatization. This
ICR provides an opportunity to review the progress of reform, and additionally sets a precedent for
evaluating the outcomes of the subsequent projects in the series.
Project Objectives and Results
ii.    Physical Objective and Project Economic Rate of Return. The Project's main objective, as
stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was to alleviate the power shortages in Luzon, caused by a
power crisis that had begun in 1991. Brownouts caused by the crisis were responsible for causing
economic losses to the Philippines of around US$600-$800 million per year. This objective was to be
achieved by financing many of the transmission lines that would connect a series of "fast track"
generation plants into the Philippine power grid. From the Bank's perspective, the Project was consistent
with the regional objective to encourage private sector participation in power generation, since the "fast
track" projects were primarily to be developed under BOT (Build-Operate-Transfer) and BTO (Build-
Transfer-Operate) contracts with IPPs (paras 1-4).
iii.    The Project substantially achieved the objective of contributing to theresolution of the power
crisis, in spite of the fact that a significant portion of the Loan was canceled (paras 16-17). However, this
achievement came at a high cost, and a recalculation of the Project's net present value (NPV) results in a
negative amount. Project approval was given on the basis of ignoring the avoided cost of the economic
damage caused by power outages. Nevertheless, even taking this economic damage into account in the
recalculation, based on the assessment of avoided costs in the SAR, does not produce a positive NPV, due
to the expensive nature of the "fast track" IPPs (para. 19). On the other hand, the magnitude of the power
crisis may have been such that the avoided cost of outages was underestimated in the SAR, and hence the
Project may have resulted in a significant net benefit in macroeconomic terms (para. 20).
These projects are: the already closed Energy Sector project (although its JEXIM-financed component is still
active, and is being supervised by the Bank), for which PNOC and the Government were also Borrowers (NPC's
component being Loan 3163-PH); the Leyte-Cebu and Leyte-Luzon Geothermal projects, due to close in June
1998 and June 1999 respectively, and for which PNOC is also a Borrower (NPC's components being
Loans 3700-PH and 3746-PH); and the Transmission Grid Reinforcement project, due to close in December 2000
(Loans 3996-PH and 3997-PH).



- iv -
iv.    Although it was recognized at the time that responding rapidly to the crisis would result in a
tradeoff between the shorter lead times of the "fast track" plants and their associated higher costs, the
economic evaluation in the SAR overestimated the future plant factors of these IPP units. It did not
explicitly consider the impact of sector reforn and the associated introduction of competition in
generation on the dispatch of the IPPs. Moreover, the Project's internal rate of return (IRR) in the SAR
was overstated, as the calculation excluded the impact of transmission losses, even though it was stated
that losses had been taken into account. Had the IRR been determined on the basis of the assumptions
actually specified in the SAR, for the case where the avoided cost of outages was ignored, it would have
been 6.5 percent instead of I I percent, and the Project would have exhibited a negative NPV (para. 18).
v.     Sectoral Policy Objective. Apart from contributing to the alleviation of the power crisis, the
Project provided an opportunity for the Bank to support a series of reforms in the energy sector by
maintaining a dialogue with the Government regarding an Energy Sector Plan (ESP) which covered
policies, institutions and implementing mechanisms. Although many of the actions in the ESP have been
implemented, a major issue of concern is the protracted debate over the details of an Omnibus Electricity
Bill which provides the mandate to privatize NPC and empowers the Department of Energy (DOE) to
effect the restructuring of the entire power industry (paras 11-12).
vi.    Financial and Institutional Development Objectives. Two related objectives of the Project,
and of the ESP as well, were ensuring NPC's financial viability to make required investments, and also
strengthening the Corporation's institutional capacity, since the healthy performance of NPC is critical to
the effective and efficient operation of the power sector as a whole. Achievement of the Project's
institutional objective has been reasonably impressive, although progress in this respect is continuing.
NPC has implemented many of the recommendations of the 1994 Efficiency and Operational
Improvement Study (EOIS), which was funded by the Japan Grant Facility and managed by the Bank
within the scope of the Project (para. 15).
vii.   The importance of the Project's financial objective is evidenced by the associated stringent
conditions required to be met before Board presentation (para. 9), and consequently the relatively long
period between the appraisal mission and Board presentation in the face of the power crisis. Thus,
although a substantial provision for retroactive financing allowed many of the Project's physical
components to be completed prior to Board presentation, NPC completed some of the more urgent
transmission works using alternative sources of funding. NPC's financial viability vvas seen as critical,
since the Corporation's financial problems were considered to have been one the key contributing factors
leading to the crisis in the first place. In many of the previous years NPC had been unable to generate
sufficient cash internally to finance its substantial investment requirements (para. 2).
viii.   The Bank spent considerable effort prior to Board presentation in helping NPC to increase its
base electricity tariff and to provide tariff indexing for the costs to NPC of fuel, purchased power and
foreign exchange fluctuations, all in an attempt to improve the Corporation's revenue stream (para. 13).
With the conditions of Board presentation met, the Bank felt that NPC's problems had been resolved and
that the Corporation was on track to meet its financial covenanits while satisfactorily financing its
investment program. Yet in hindsight, although necessary, these tariff changes were not sufficient
measures to ensure NPC's financial viability, and so the financial objective has not been achieved. NPC
still does not have enough internally generated funds to cover debt servicing requirements (para. 14), and
the quality of the Corporation's equity, which consists largely of appraisal surplus, is poor (para. 32).
ix.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. The main factors which have maintained NPC's financial
difficulties (Section C) are: (i) the consequences of historical decisions made by the Government and



v -
NPC prior to the Project's inception, which constrained NPC's possible response to the crisis; (ii) the
slow pace of sector reform, which has delayed privatization and hence the infusion of fresh equity;
(iii) Government emphasis on developing indigenous energy resources for strategic and environmental
reasons at a high contractual cost, the burden of which is not being equally shared by all electricity
consumers; (iv) competition from new IPPs, which NPC finds difficult to meet given the high cost of
some of its existing IPP contracts; (v) delays in tariff approval and problems with tariff design, which
have had temporarily negative impacts on NPC's revenue stream; (vi) NPC's high reserve margin, which
raises its average costs; and (vii) weak integration of financial and non-financial planning within NPC,
which has resulted in non-optimal investment programs and non-optimal asset utilization.
Overall Outcome and Bank/Borrower Performance
x.     Bank Performance.   Bank performance in project identification and preparation was
satisfactory. Considerable flexibility was built into the project description to facilitate changes in the
project design in response to inconstant crisis conditions. However, although the Bank's commitment to
assist NPC in restructuring its tariffs and strengthening its institutional capacity was laudable, overall, the
performance of the Bank in appraising the Project is rated deficient, specifically with respect to the
sensitivity analysis of the Project's IRR and the assessment of NPC's financial situation (Section E). The
Project focused mainly on improving NPC's income statement (by securing revenue through
automatically-adjusting tariffs), whereas greater effort was also needed to improve NPC's balance sheet
(by augmenting its level of equity). Further, the short term benefits of mitigating the economic damage
caused by the power crisis were estimated at the time as offsetting the longer term costs due to the
expensive IPP contracts. Given that the process of sector reform made NPC's market share and overall
level of sales very difficult to forecast, the sensitivity of the IRR to such highly uncertain factors should
have been investigated in the SAR. Nevertheless, Bank performance during supervision was generally
satisfactory, and NPC's financial problems were diagnosed more accurately during the appraisal for the
later Transmission Grid Reinforcement project.
xi.    Borrower Performance. NPC's performance during preparation and implementation of the
Project was satisfactory, and the Corporation was highly committed to the Project (Section F). NPC acted
to meet all the Bank's conditions of Board presentation and loan effectiveness, and physical
implementation was marked by many contracts being completed early and under the cost estimates. NPC
took action with regard to the majority of recommendations in the EOIS, although some were put on hold
pending the outcome of NPC's ongoing restructuring process. On the other hand, compliance with
financial covenants was not attained in every year, and the financial objective of the Project was not
achieved. However, a number of the factors contributing to this result were outside of NPC's direct
control during the project period (para. ix).
xii.   Project Sustainability.   Overall, the prospects for project sustainability are uncertain
(Section D). In terms of responding to the power crisis, the Project has contributed to making it unlikely
that such a level of brownouts will happen again in the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, meeting the
Project's physical objective came at a high cost, and has contributed to the perpetuation of NPC's poor
financial position. Since the financial viability of NPC is critical to ensuring an effective and efficient
power sector, this means that the project sustainability as a whole must also be rated as uncertain. This
conclusion is reinforced by: (i) general sectoral uncertainty caused by the delay in passing the Omnibus
Electricity Bill; (ii) the recent depreciation of the peso; and (iii) implementation delays in NPC's other
Bank-financed projects.



- vi -
xiii.   Assessment of Outcome. The overall outcome of the Project is rated unsatisfactory (Section G).
The reason for the unsatisfactory rating is twofold: (i) NPC has maintained its precarious financial
situation over the Project period, and hence the objective of ensuring NPC's financial viability has not
been achieved (para. viii); and (ii) the high cost of meeting the Project's physical objective was a
contributing factor to this situation, and consequently a recalculation of the Project's NPV results in a
negative value (para. iii). The importance of the Project's financial objective is evidenced by the stringent
conditions relating to NPC's finances which were required to be met prior to Board presentation
(para. vii). NPC's financial viability was seen as critical, since the Corporation's financial problems were
considered to have been one the key contributing factors leading to the power crisis. Hence, ensuring the
sustainability of the Project's short term physical objective, to resolve the immediate needs of the power
crisis, was dependent on also achieving the longer term financial objective.
xiv.   Nevertheless, this outcome must be qualified by noting that: (i) the physical objective to alleviate
the power crisis was substantially achieved; (ii) the magnitude of the power crisis may have been such
that the avoided cost of outages was substantially higher than the assessment in the SAR, hence the
Project may have resulted in a significant net benefit in macroeconomic terms; and (iii) in meeting the
Project's physical objective, the implementation performance of NPC was satisfactory. Many of the
factors leading to both the Project's poor economic return and the perpetuation of NPC's precarious
financial situation were as a consequence of decisions made by the Government and NPC prior to the
Project's inception. To a large extent these factors constrained NPC's possible response to the power
crisis.
Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
xv.   Future Operation. The Bank's recent sector reports have built on the ESP by providing the
strategic framework for restructuring and privatizing the power sector, and NPC in particular. More
specifically, the covenants of the Transmission Grid Reinforcement project include the requirement for
the separation of NPC's transmission activities as a separate corporate entity. Yet NPC's precarious
financial situation, the slow pace of sector reform and the fragmented nature of the distribution sector, are
still of concern. The Bank will continue to monitor NPC's finances through its ongoing supervision of
the subsequent projects. However, a resolution of these outstanding issues still requires a concerted effort
by DOF, DOE, NPC, PNOC-EDC and NEA, with coordinated assistance from both the Bank and ADB
(Section H).
xvi.   Key Lessons Learned. The stringent conditions of Board presentation relating to the Project's
financial objective, which resulted in presentation delays in the face of a crisis, suggest that the resolution
of short term problems was not to be at the expense of the long term financial viability of the Philippine
power sector's key player. However, because the IPP arrangements associated with the Project were
developed under crisis conditions, they came at a high cost. This has been a contributing factor to the
failure of this Project to meet its financial objective and has detrimentally affected the Project's economic
rate of return. Such an outcome indicates the need to clearly identify potential interactions between
project objectives, and highlights the pitfalls in not conducting sufficient sensitivity analyses of a
project's economic rate of return, particularly in a sector undergoing major structural reform. Further,
return on rate base (RORB) and debt service ratio (DSR) financial covenants are not in themselves
sufficient indicators of a public utility's financial resiliency. Had NPC actually met the covenants in
every year of the Project, this would have masked the actual precariousness of the Corporation's financial
position (Section I).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
POWER TRANSMISSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3626-PH)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Background. Beginning in 1991, the Philippines experienced a very serious power crisis which
posed a grave threat to its economic development and stability. The crisis resulted in substantial outages
of up to 10 hours per day in Luzon and Mindanao, hurting industrial production and the development of
new industrial and commercial activities. In addition, there were serious disruptions of key services that
depended on electricity, ranging from traffic management to water supply and sewerage. The cost of
consequent unemployment and economic losses was estimated by the Bank to be around US$600-$800
million per year.2
2.    The crisis was partially due to natural causes, a serious persistent drought which caused several
key hydro dams to be below minimum operating levels. However, equally important were institutional
problems which had resulted in minimal investments being made in power generation during the period
from 1986 to 1992. These problems included: (i) inadequate financial performance of the National Power
Corporation (NPC), the state-owned entity responsible for power generation and transmission, due to
insufficient tariff levels resulting in negative cash generation and reduced amounts available for power
investments; (ii) inadequate maintenance and rehabilitation of NPC's thermal plants (having an average
age of 22 years), resulting in frequent unplanned outages; (iii) long delays in obtaining environmental
approval for power projects, in part due to the very negative public perception of NPC; (iv) slow
procurement, project implementation and disbursement procedures by NPC; and (v) the mothballing of
the Philippine Nuclear Power Plant (600 MW).
3.    In response to the crisis, the Government of the Philippines enacted the "Electric Power Crisis
Act of 1993" (RA 7648) to give the President special powers to facilitate tariff increases and to expedite
project approvals. A "fast track" generation program of BOT (Build-Operate-Transfer) and BTO (Build-
Transfer-Operate) contracts with the private sector was initiated comprising 700 MW of capacity for
Luzon and 200 MW for Mindanao. These contracts involved internal combustion turbines operating on
relatively expensive fuel/bunker oil or diesel that could be commissioned rapidly. Other conventional
power supply projects (coal, geothermal and hydro), which have lower operating expenses, require much
longer construction lead times and hence would not have been able to provide the necessary relief in the
short term. NPC intended that as soon as adequate conventional power generation was installed to serve
base load requirements, that these operationally expensive plants be reserved for peak power generation
or standby capacity, as is dictated by the principles of economic dispatch. However, it was recognized
that these plants would continue to be expensive, since the high take-or-pay charges under the BOT
contracts persist irrespective of operational conditions.
2 This estimate, which was presented in the Project's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), corresponded to around
1.5 percent of GDP, and was calculated on the basis of using US$0.50/kWh as the cost of unserved energy. (This
was the value used by the National Power Corporation (NPC) in its planning process).



- 2 -
4.    Project Objectives. As stated in the Project's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of June 1993, the
main objective of the Project was to alleviate power shortages in Luzon, through: (a) a transmission
system expansion and reinforcement program needed to bring power to Manila from the "fast track"
generation plants; and (b) the rehabilitation of the Bataan thermal generating plant (225 MW). The
Project was also intended to improve the performance of the energy sector through the approval by the
Government, in consultation with the Bank, of an Energy Sector Plan (ESP) covering policies, institutions
and implementing mechanisms. In addition, it was to ensure the financial viability of NPC to undertake a
massive and long-overdue investment program and improve its institutional setup.
5.    Project Components.  The Project was originally designed to have the following major
components: (a) expansion of the transmission system in the Bataan and Batangas areas near Metro
Manila; (b) provision of goods and materials (conductors, insulators and supports) to reinforce the
transmission system; (c) rehabilitation of the two units (Unit #1, 75 MW and Unit #2, 150 MW) of the
Bataan oil-fired thermal power plant; (d) consulting assistance to prepare a master plan to develop the
500 kV extra high voltage (EHV) system and rehabilitate the Bataan thermal plant; and (e) an
"Efficiency and Operational Improvement Study" (EOIS) funded by the Japan Grant Facility and
managed by the Bank.
6.    After the Loan was declared effective, conditions in the power sector changed from those
prevailing at the time of appraisal. Among other changes, one of the proposed BOT developments
(600 MW) never eventuated, necessitating the indefinite postponement of the proposed transmission
reinforcement measures in the Batangas area. Furthermore, NPC opted to seek a private sector developer
to rehabilitate the Bataan thermal plant on an ROM (Rehabilitate-Operate-Maintain) basis in line with
new policies to divest generation to the private sector, and not to use funds from the Loan for this
purpose. On August 24, 1995, NPC requested the cancellation of these components.
7.    Evaluation of Objectives. In responding to the emergency conditions brought on by the power
crisis, the Project objectives relating to the physical components were directed at ensuring the successful
implementation of the Government's "fast track" generation program. They also complemented the
Bank's wider country objectives of promoting private sector involvement in infrastructural development.
The description of the transmission system expansion and reinforcement components of the Project in the
Loan Agreement was sufficiently broad to allow a flexible change of project scope in response to the risk
of non-implementation of specific generation projects.  Moreover, the risk of delays in the
implementation of the transmission components was minimized by an advanced and effective
procurement program monitored monthly by the Bank, and by the provision for retroactive financing of
up to 20 percent of the loan amount prior to signing. Implementation of the physical components of the
Project was neither demanding nor complex from NPC's perspective, and there were no major
environmental or resettlement issues.
8.    The Loan Agreement required an exchange of views between the Bank and the Government on
the ongoing process of sector reform outlined in the ESP. The Government approved the ESP prior to
Board presentation and this plan provided a roadmap for an extremely ambitious and complex program of
reform for the wider energy sector, not just the power sector (para. I 1).
9.    The objective of ensuring NPC's financial viability to undertake its investment program did not
have a related project component. However, stringent conditions for Board presentation required an
increase in NPC's base tariff and a provision for an automatic tariff adjustment to reflect fluctuations in
the cost to NPC of purchasing petroleum products, in order to improve NPC's revenue stream. In
addition, loan effectiveness conditions included further tariff indexing for the costs to NPC of coal,



-3 -
geothermal steam and purchased power, and to account for foreign exchange rate fluctuations. NPC's
financial viability was also an area of action in the ESP. The ESP proposed enacting legislation to
authorize equity infusions to NPC from the Oil Price Stabilization Fund (OPSF). At the time of Board
presentation, the Bank felt that NPC's financial problems had been resolved and that the Corporation was
on track to meet the covenanted return on rate base (RORB) of 8 percent and debt service ratio (DSR)
of 1.3. Yet, although necessary, these tariff changes and limited equity infusions were not sufficient
measures to ensure NPC's financial viability (para. 32).
10.   The objective of improving NPC's institutional setup was to be achieved by the implementation
of the recommendations of the EOIS (para. 15) and a transmission system development study, for which
extensive terms of reference were included in the SAR.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.    Sectoral Policy Objective. Achievement of the Project's sectoral policy objective has been
partial. Nevertheless, although significant additional restructuring of the power sector is still required, the
gains made during the project period through the ESP were reasonably impressive. Many of the required
actions in the plan have been implemented (Table 6C). These included passing legislation to: (i) create
the Department of Energy (DOE); (ii) deregulate the oil industry; (iii) rationalize the tariff and tax
component of petroleum products; (iv) empower a single body, the Energy Regulatory Board (ERB), to
have control over the regulation of electric utility pricing; (v) prohibit and prosecute power pilferage; and
(vi) institutionalize the Committee on Power Conservation and Demand Management.
12.   On the other hand, the main issue still outstanding is the protracted debate in the Philippine
Senate and Congress over the details of an Omnibus Electricity Bill (first drafted in early 1995) that
provides the mandate to privatize NPC and empowers the DOE to effect the restructuring of the entire
power industry. Unfortunately, in November 1997, the Supreme Court of the Philippines declared the Oil
Industry Deregulation Act of 1996 (RA 8180) unconstitutional.3 This redirected the focus of both Senate
and Congress, and ensured that the Omnibus Bill would not be passed under the current administration.
Furthermore, legislation both to remove the current disincentives to private sector participation in
geothermal development, and to change the proscriptive policy regarding geothermal royalties that has
driven up steam prices, is still pending after more than four years.
13.   Financial Objective.  Despite notable efforts on both the part of the Bank and of NPC,
achievement of the Project's financial objective has been negligible. NPC complied with its RORB
covenant in 1994 and 1996 (8.3 and 8.2 percent respectively), but not in 1993 and 1995 (5.9 and
7.3 percent). The DSR was 0.9, 1.3, 0.9 and 1.4 in the years from 1993 to 1996. As a result of the
Project, NPC's bulk tariffs were restructured to improve NPC's income (para. 9). This process included:
a base rate tariff increase; the application of automatic adjustments for the cost to NPC of fuel
(i.e., petroleum products, coal and geothermal steam), purchased power and foreign exchange rate
fluctuations; and the introduction of demand charges to all customers. A later development was the
approval by ERB of an open access transmission tariff (OATT) applied to IPPs wanting to wheel power
through NPC's transmission network to distributors. (This has set an important precedent, as the
wheeling tariff level is based on receiving a 12 percent RORB on NPC's transmission assets).
14.   However, irrespective of covenant compliance or non-compliance, and in spite of the measures
taken to restructure tariffs, NPC still faces financial difficulties in terms of not having enough internally
3 Congress approved a new and more competitive deregulation law in February 1998.



- 4 -
generated funds to even cover debt-service requirements. Hence, NPC has not been able to satisfactorily
finance its investment program as planned. NPC had intended to put P37.1 billion and P38.7 billion into
new projects in 1995 and 1996. Actual capital expenditure was only P20.6 billion and P23.3 billion
during these years. (The major factors impacting on NPC's financial situation are outlined in Section C).
15.   Institutional Development Objective. Achievement of the Project's institutional objective has
been partial. Although reasonably impressive gains have been made, further progress in this respect is
still required (para. 27). NPC has implemented many of the 1994 EOIS recommendations to strengthen
the management of its assets and to function more in accordance with commercial principles. On the
basis of these recommendations and the lessons learned from the Bank's involvement with NPC through
the Energy Sector project (Loan 3163-PH) and the ongoing Leyte Geothermal projects (Loans 3700-PH
and 3746-PH), specific corrective measures were taken during the course of the Project period. These
included: (i) appointment of project directors under a new vice presidency; (ii) establishment of a Project
Management Office to manage the responsible design groups in the Engineering Department, as well as
outside consultants; (iii) strengthening NPC's procedures to deal with environmental and resettlement
issues; (iv) training in the implementation of Bank procurement procedures; (v) standardization of bid
documents to ensure a uniform approach in evaluating and awarding contracts (as was covenanted under
the Loan Agreement); and (vi) the development of other programs such as Reliability Central
Maintenance (RCM) and Total Quality Management (TQM) intended to achieve continuous performance
improvement. In addition, the Transmission Master Plan funded under the Loan provided the basis for
planning much of NPC's future transmission expansion program (Table 7). However, actions on some
recommendations in the EOIS have been put on hold, pending the outcome of the current restructuring of
NPC.
16.   Physical Objective. The overall physical objective was substantially achieved, even taking into
account the cancellation of the component for rehabilitating the Bataan thermal plant. In terms of
alleviating the power crisis, the Project eventually facilitated the transmission of up to 1200 MW of
additional power within Luzon, and to the Metro Manila region in particular (Appendix A). The
construction of the Hermosa-Bocaue-Balintawak line, and the associated expansion of the Balintawak and
Manila substations, were both necessary to evacuate power generated from the Subic and Bataan regions
to Manila. The temporary Limay-Hermosa dual circuits, financed retroactively and completed prior to
loan signing, transmitted up to 600 MW of power from the Bataan (ABB) combined-cycle plant to the
Hermosa substation. In addition, the Subic-Olongapo line and the expansion of the Olongapo substation,
allowed the transmission of up to 100 MW from the Enron-Subic II plant through to Hermosa. In
Northern Luzon, the Payocpoc-Bauang line allowed the export of around 200 MW from First Private
Power's (FPP) Bauang plant. The construction of the Pinamucan-Batangas line, completed prior to loan
signing, and the expansion of the Batangas and Binan substations and of the Calaca and Makban
switchyards, connected up to 100 MW into the grid from the Enron-Pinamucan plant. Finally, the
rehabilitation of the Kalayaan-Tayabas line and the expansion of the Dolores substation eventually
contributed to bringing north up to an additional 200 MW from the geothermal plants in Southern Luzon.
17.   Prior to the Project's inception, the Bataan thermal plant had been operating at less than half its
capacity and experiencing frequent outages. Its rehabilitation under the project scope was intended to
restore the plant to full capacity. This component of the Loan in its entirety, including the remaining
portion of the associated consultancy contract, was canceled in August 1995, the justification being that
the rehabilitation would still be performed through divesting the plant to the private sector on an ROM
basis (para. 6). As yet, this has not ensued. Nevertheless, the failure of this component to be completed
within, or outside, the extent of the Loan did not hinder achievement of the project objective to provide
relief for the power crisis. Moreover, the portion of the related consultancy contract that was utilized did



-5 -
enable NPC to revise its maintenance procedures to achieve an increase in firm capacity and a reduction
in forced outages (Table 7).4
18.    Economic Rate of Return. The internal rate of return (IRR) for the transmission expansion and
reinforcement program was estimated in the SAR as 11 percent, assuming that NPC's average bulk tariff
could be increased from P1.66/kWh to P1.84/kWh. Although it was stated in the SAR that the IRR was
calculated accounting for transmission losses, this was not the case. Correcting for this, the IRR in the
SAR would have been only 6.5 percent with an associated negative net present value (NPV) of
P1.9 billion.5  When avoided losses to the economy due to frequent power outages were taken into
account, the IRR was considerably higher, indicated in the SAR as being 136 percent. (The avoided cost
of outages, associated with the incremental sales due to the Project, was presented in the SAR as being
P7.2 billion over a two year period). Correcting again for the omission of transmission losses, the IRR in
the SAR would have been 92 percent, with a positive NPV of P3.1 billion.
19.    The Project NPV has been recalculated on the basis of NPC's current forecasts for plant costs,
power tariffs, sales and revenues (Table 9). Both the Enron-Subic II and Enron-Pinamucan plants have
been included in the revised economic analysis, since the Project facilitated the transmission of power
from both of these plants in order to alleviate the power crisis (para. 16). The ESI plant was built by a
different developer and is included in the analysis as the FPP-Bauang plant. The recalculated NPV is
negative P14.6 billion, ignoring avoided outage costs, or negative P9 billion, including the level of
avoided outage costs used in the SAR. The main reason for the substantially lower recalculated NPV is
NPC's reduced forecasts for plant factors, in particular, that for the ABB combined-cycle units. Given
that NPC's average tariff for Luzon is optimistically projected to almost double over the next nine years,
these plant factors could be also be optimistic (para. 24).
20.    On the other hand, it is possible that an insufficient level of avoided outage costs was used in the
SAR's economic analysis; such costs are problematic to estimate, evenexpost. These costs have been
reassessed, based on assumptions provided in the Bank's 1994 Philippines Power Sector Study
(13313-PH), to give an indication of the possible order of magnitude for the economic damage mitigated
4 A quantitative analysis of the benefits of the Bataan thermal plant rehabilitation was not attempted in the SAR.
However, it was considered that the rehabilitation cost of around US$31 million was justified in comparison to
the replacement cost of the plant. Given the significant improvement in perfornance that has been achieved at
the Bataan thermal plant, primarily due to the associated consultancy study, it can be concluded that this
component of the Project achieved a higher economic return than was expected.
5 (All NPVs discussed in this Section are for a discount rate of 10 percent). The SAR calculation also assumed that
transmission expenditure for 1992 was sunk (i.e., around 8 percent of the Project's transmission costs were
ignored). In addition, station losses (typically around 3 percent) appear to have been ignored. These have been
included in the revised calculation. Finally, the plant factor for the ESI plant was listed in the SAR's Annex 15
(containing the IRR calculation) as being 79 percent after 1995; sales figures in the SAR were actually calculated
on the basis of a more realistic plant factor of 30 percent.
6 Another issue relating to the plant factors is that the economic viability of this Project, the components of which
were acknowledged by the SAR as not normally being part of a least cost expansion program, may have been
detrimentally affected by investment decisions made subsequent to the Project's inception. Without performing a
detailed optimization analysis, it cannot be ruled out that later investments, particularly in base-load geothermal
and coal-fired plants (both currently operating as well as under construction), may have suboptimally displaced,
and continue to further displace, the sunk ABB units in the dispatch merit order (para. 27). Even if justifiably
displaced, all the plants relating to the Project may have some additional economic value associated with their use
as reserve capacity which is not accounted for in the recalculated IRR.



-6 -
by the Project.7 Applying these assumptions results in an overall avoided cost of outages of P26.8 billion
over the three year period 1993-1995 (compared to P7.2 billion used in the SAR over a two year period).
Using this substantially higher level of avoided costs in the recalculated economic analysis results in a
positive NPV of P7.0 billion.8
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
21.    Factors Not Subject to Government or NPC Control. (a) Historical factors: NPC's need to
respond to the power crisis by relying on plants that would not normally have been part of a least cost
generation expansion program stemmed from historical factors (para. 2), and hence were not subject to
the control of either NPC or the Government subsequent to the inception of the Project. At the onset of
the crisis in 1991, insufficient generation investments were in the pipeline, and due to existing
undercapacity NPC had little choice but to keep its aging plants online rather than risk outages. Without
periodic overhauls, the condition of its generation facilities deteriorated sharply, further exacerbating the
crisis. In addition to problems related to securing environmental and social clearances, the lack of
generation investment was due to insufficient internal cash generation. With encouragement from the
Government, NPC had stopped implementing the existing fuel cost and exchange rate adjustments in its
tariff in 1989. Also, the Corporation had had to delay tariff increases required to respond to the large hike
in oil prices caused by the Gulf War, and was unable to arrange needed equity financing due to
constraints on Government cash investments. This had forced NPC to borrow in foreign currency to meet
its local currency investment requirements; a situation which has continued. Conditions were further
complicated by the politicizing of NPC tariff increases in anticipation of the May 1992 presidential and
congressional elections.
22.    (b) Tariff design: The formula initially approved by ERB for the purchased power adjustment
would have had a negative impact on NPC's revenue had it been applied, and it was not until 1996 that
NPC was able to have a more favorable methodology approved. When finally applied for Luzon
customers, it contributed to a major improvement in NPC's average rate for 1996. Another tariff change,
intended at least initially to be revenue neutral, was introduced as a covenant under the Loan. This was
the application of a higher demand charge component in the bulk tariff. Because the split of demand and
energy charge components was approved by ERB based on historical data, and NPC's customers have in
most cases subsequently improved their load factors, this change resulted in a negative impact to NPC.
7 This 1994 study assumed the economic cost of outages to be US$0.43/kWh for 1993, and US$0.28/kWh
subsequently. The reduction over time is because, after a long period of unreliable service, consumers tend to be
better prepared for outages, thus reducing the impact of the crisis. A large number of consumers purchased
gensets as back-up units during the power crisis, generating at a cost of around US$0.17/kWh. The avoided cost
in each year is thus the weighted average of NPC's own estimate of US$0.50/kWh (Footnote 2) and the self-
generation cost, as the production from gensets increases. Applying these avoided costs to the incremental sales
due to the Project over the period 1993-1995, for the peak 8 hours of each day, results in an overall value of
P26.8 billion. This calculation is not intended to be definitive, but only to provide a possible order of magnitude.
For instance, attributing avoided costs to the entire year of 1995, during which other NPC and IPP plants came
on-line, might overstate the benefits.
The IRR associated with this higher level of avoided costs is only 3.5 percent. This seemingly anomalous result
is because the cost-benefit stream is the reverse of that for typical investment projects. Net benefits occur in the
initial years of the Project (due to the avoided outages), whereas net costs occur in all subsequent years (since
revenue from incremental sales is insufficient to cover the capacity costs of the "fast track" plants).



23.   Factors Subject to Government Control. (a) Pace of sector reform: A key factor influencing
NPC's finances is the slow pace of sector reform, particularly the delay in the passage of the Omnibus
Bill by more than two years (para. 12). The privatization of NPC's generation assets is not a realistic
option until after this Bill is passed. In early 1996, the SAR for the Transmission Grid Reinforcement
project (Loans 3996-PH and 3997-PH), noted that rapid progress with commercialization and
privatization was of great importance to NPC, as its financial planning depended on adequate amounts of
fresh equity capital through the sale of shares in its planned subsidiaries by 1997. Although noting that
the Government has a policy of not acquiring any more equity in NPC, this SAR warned that, if the
privatization program failed to provide adequate amounts of equity by this time, the Govemment would
need to provide relief, either through new equity investments or advances given on highly concessional
terms. The infusion of equity from the OPSF (para. 9) and from revenues of the Philippine Amusement
and Gaming Corporation has had little impact.
24.   (b) Competition from new IPPs: Ironically, the process of sector reform has itself contributed to
NPC's financial difficulties. One of the main impacts of reform has been to expose NPC to competition
in generation. In principle, this is desirable aspect of the reform process, but the playing field is tilted in
favor of the IPP entrants that want to wheel power through NPC's transmission network and sell directly
to distributors. NPC finds it difficult to compete with these relatively efficient and lower cost new
generators, because its average generation cost is weighted upward by the expensive contracts it already
has with some of its own IPPs.9 NPC maintains that the solution to its problems lies in increasing market
share through aggressive pricing and contracts. Consequently, NPC recently applied to ERB for a
reduction in its base tariff, and approached the Bank to request a relaxation of all RORB loan covenants.
The motivation for these requests is that, if NPC's generation market share is eroded, its already high
reserve margin and average costs will increase further, launching a vicious cycle of reduced sales and
even higher costs. However, the solution to this problem does not lie in NPC establishing a monopoly in
generation through a relaxation of its financial covenants with the Bank, but rather in leveling the playing
field through recouping the higher costs of past decisions from all consumers, not just NPC's.
25.   (c) Emphasis on indigenous resources: Apart from being a response to the immediate needs of the
power crisis, a number of NPC's power purchase arrangements were entered into in order to comply with
the Government's promotion of the use of indigenous energy resources, especially geothermal. Contracts
entered into for strategic reasons, or to internalize externalities, can be considered as beneficial to all
electricity consumers (or even to the economy at large), and the burden should be shared accordingly. As
a partial rejoinder, NPC has filed an unbundled tariff with ERB which contains a component explicitly
quantifying the additional cost to NPC due to the "development of indigenous resources".
Correspondingly, NPC recently proposed to the Department of Finance (DOF) the imposition of a
geothernal levy, borne by all electricity consumers, to recover the cost of geothermal contracts over and
above the competitive market price.10
26.   Factors Subject to NPC Control. (a) High reserve margin: At the time, the Government was
aware that, as a result of the "fast track" projects, once the longer term and more economical power
supply alternatives had materialized, peak power capacity might be somewhat in excess of what would be
9 For 1996, the average cost of NPC's plants was reported as 1.3658 P/kWh, whereas the average for NPC's IPPs
was 1.9853 P/kWh, of which the geothermal plants cost 1.6826 P/kWh (as presented in the Bank's 1997 Energy
Strategy and Pricing Study; para. 39).
The price that PNOC-EDC can offer NPC for steam is inflated by the Government's policy on geothermal
royalties. Although a bill to reform this policy has been pending in Congress since 1993, it has not yet been
passed (para. 12).



- 8 -
planned under normal circumstances. This was justified on the basis that such a high reserve margin was
necessary to ensure that further damage to the economy was avoided, and to hedge against the risks
relating to the unreliability of existing thermal plants, the possibility of implementation delays, and
uncertainty regarding the financing of some of the "fast track" projects. The SARs for both this Project
and the subsequent Leyte projects concurred with this view, suggesting that a margin of at least
30 percent would be required. However, NPC has continued to bring more projects onstream, and around
1900 MW of new generation is programmed over the next four years. I To ensure that NPC's financial
situation is not further eroded due to a poor average plant factor, markets need to be found for this
capacity, but NPC's market share is becoming increasingly constrained by competition from new IPPs
(para. 24).
27.   (b) Weak integration of financial and non-financial planning: The EOIS (para. 15) noted a need
for closer integration between financial and non-financial planning within NPC. Accordingly, NPC still
needs a clear strategy to ensure: the financial viability of projects; the affordability of marketing,
investment and borrowing decisions; optimum asset utilization; and the minimization of foreign exchange
risks. The tendency of NPC's marketing and planning groups to marginalize advice from its financial
departments is a contributing factor to NPC's current situation.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.    Overall, the prospects for project sustainability are uncertain. In terms of responding to the power
crisis, the Project has contributed to making it unlikely that such a level of brownouts will happen again
in the foreseeable future. In fact, rather than suffering from undercapacity, NPC now experiences a high
reserve margin (para. 26). Moreover, the related Leyte projects and Transmission Grid Reinforcement
project, which follow the course outlined by the Transmission Master Plan funded under the scope of the
Project, continue to improve the robustness of NPC's transmission network. Although some transmission
bottlenecks are still being experienced with respect to the existing generation capacity, these should be
eliminated during 1998.
29.   Nevertheless, meeting the Project's physical objectives came at a high cost, and has contributed
to the perpetuation of NPC's poor financial position (para. 24). Since the financial viability of NPC is
critical to ensuring an effective and efficient power sector, this means that the Project's sustainability as a
whole must also be rated as uncertain. This conclusion is reinforced by: (i) general sectoral uncertainty
caused by the delay in passing the Omnibus Bill (para. 23); (ii) the recent depreciation of the peso; and
(iii) implementation delays in NPC's other Bank-financed projects.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
30.   Identification and Preparation. Bank performance in project identification and preparation was
satisfactory. The Loan provided an opportunity for a positive demonstration of the Bank's support for a
Borrower experiencing financial and institutional difficulties, and needing to respond rapidly to a crisis
situation. Specifically, it was designed to ensure that NPC had the capability to respond to the "fast
track" initiatives by private sector BOT and BTO proponents to restore power as quickly as possible,
since commercial loans are typically not available for transmission or rehabilitation work. Considerable
Without performing a detailed optimization analysis, it cannot be ruled out that investments which contribute to
the high reserve margin, both presently and in the future, may detrimentally impact the specific economic
viability of this Project (Footnote 6), in addition to affecting the Corporation's finances.



-9 -
flexibility was built into the project description to facilitate changes in the project design in response to
inconstant crisis conditions. The project scope was also directed at ensuring NPC's financial viability,
strengthening its institutional capacity, and initiating a wide range of reforms in the energy sector through
agreement with the Government on the ESP, not just in meeting the immediate needs caused by the power
crisis.
31.    Appraisal.  Bank performance in appraising the Project is rated deficient.  However, the
provision for retroactive financing enabled NPC to complete urgent transmission works prior to loan
signing, although some of the originally planned sub-projects were financed by other sources because of
the delay in signing. Furthermore, the Bank's commitment to assist NPC in restructuring its tariffs and
strengthening its institutional capacity was laudable. Nevertheless, the assessment of NPC's financial
situation and the sensitivity analysis of the Project's IRR had limitations. In the period between the
appraisal mission and presentation of the Project to the Board, which lasted around 9 months due to the
stringent conditions attached to Board presentation, the Bank placed a clear emphasis on NPC's financial
difficulties (para. 37) and pointed out the expensive nature of the "fast track" generation plants. For
instance, the appraisal mission had noted that, while appreciating the Government's concern about the
deteriorating power situation and anxiety to safeguard the country's economy, it would have been prudent
to perform a critical review of some of the less economical power plants being procured, as these plants
could cause a serious drain on NPC's already stretched financial resources. The SAR also noted that, in
the future, a proliferation of BOT contracts under take-or-pay conditions might result in complex dispatch
problems and difficulties in allocating the reserve and spinning costs of capacity. Yet, by the time of
Board presentation, the improvements to NPC's income stream through tariff increases and adjustments
(para. 13), were considered sufficient to relieve NPC's situation.
32.    The only risk identified in the SAR with respect to NPC's finances was that base tariffs might not
be increased sufficiently further in the future. However, this risk was considered to be mitigated by
ERB's prior endorsement of the principles behind NPC's revised tariff structure, and because the new
administration in the Philippines was seen as having targeted energy problems as a top priority. The
potential impact of a more competitive generation environment on NPC's market share and financial
position was not considered, neither was it contemplated that, as a consequence, NPC would ever
willingly file for a rate reduction as opposed to a rate increase (para. 24). Furthermore, it was not until the
SAR for the Transmission Grid Reinforcement project that the Bank placed appropriate emphasis on the
poor quality of NPC's equity (which consists largely of appraisal surplus), highlighting that the
Corporation's financial constraints derive from its balance sheet rather than from its income statement. In
other words, the Project focused mainly on securing NPC's revenue through automatically-adjusting
tariffs, whereas greater effort was also needed to augment its level of equity.
33.    At Board presentation the concern was raised that the IRR presented in the SAR was relatively
low, suggesting problems with productivity in the power sector. In addition, a question was posed
regarding the IRR's sensitivity to assumptions regarding tariff rates, and whether other sensitivity factors
had been examined.  For instance, although implementation delays had been identified in the SAR as a
risk, the sensitivity of the IRR to this factor was not examined. The response was that the IRR was
12 The SAR's Annex 15 did present a calculation of the IRR based on the existing tariff of P1.66/kWh (para. 18).
This resulted in a reduction of the IRR from 11 percent to I percent when ignoring avoided costs, and from
136 percent to 7 percent when including avoided costs, or correcting for the omission of transmission losses
(para. 18), from 6.5 percent to negative 2 percent, and from 92 percent to positive 2 percent, respectively.
However, this analysis was not discussed in the main body of the SAR, and the highly sensitive aspect of the IRR
was not highlighted.



- 10-
acceptable given the emergency circumstances under which the Project was to be executed, and that when
losses to the economy due to frequent power outages were taken into account, the IRR was considerably
higher (para. 18). Yet, even accounting for the benefits of negating the outages, based on the assumptions
presented in the SAR, the SAR's NPV is only positive because of sales subsequent to 2008 (i.e., after the
end of the BOT contract cooperation periods, once the requirement to pay annual capacity fees has
expired). Given the ongoing process of sector reform, by such a time, power sales wil.l be governed by a
totally different market mechanism, making individual plant factors, NPC's market share and overall level
of sales, very difficult to forecast.'3 In hindsight, the sensitivity of the IRR to highly uncertain factors, in
particular future plant factors, should have been investigated in the SAR.
34.    Supervision. Bank performance during supervision was generally satisfactory, although it might
be argued otherwise since there were only two formal implementation review missions. However,
supervision of the Project needs to be assessed in the context of the related missions for supervision of the
Leyte projects, and for project preparation and appraisal of the Transmission Grid Reinforcement project.
Issues raised in this context led to the funding under the Project of studies on economic dispatch and open
access transmission tariffs (Table 7).  Moreover, NPC's financial problems were diagnosed more
accurately as part of the appraisal for the Transmission Grid Reinforcement project. Finally, the presence
of a local procurement specialist at the resident mission in the early stages of the Project was beneficial.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   Preparation. NPC's performance during preparation of the Project was satisfactory. NPC was
highly committed to the Project and acted to meet all the Bank's conditions of Board presentation and
loan effectiveness. The delays in this respect were in part due to a Supreme Court injunction against the
rate increase approved by NPC's Board, and the subsequent time taken by ERB to reapprove this increase
and other automatic tariff adjustments.
36.   Implementation. NPC's performance during implementation of the Project was satisfactory.
Physical implementation was marked by many contracts being completed early (Table 5) and under the
cost estimates. However, in one case NPC failed to comply with the Bank's procurement guidelines,
which resulted in the denial of contract funding. The loan closure date was extended to accommodate the
completion of contracts to supply communications equipment and to develop model transmission service
contracts. However, this extension was mainly required because these components were more closely
related to the scope and timetable of the later Transmission Grid Reinforcement project. NPC took action
with regard to the majority of recommendations contained in the institution-building consultancy studies,
although some of the recommendations in the EOIS were put on hold pending the outcome of NPC's
ongoing restructuring process (para. 15). NPC also worked closely with the Bank to restructure its tariffs.
Compliance with financial covenants was not attained in every year and the financial objective of the
Project was not achieved (para. 13). However, as is discussed in Section C, a number of the factors
contributing to this result were outside of NPC's direct control during the project period.
13 Although it cannot be ruled out that the later investments which displace the "fast track" plants in the merit order
were suboptimal, and hence unfairly affect the re-evaluation of the economic viability of the Project (Footnote 6),
it was recognized in the SAR that significant additions of base-load geothermal and coal-fired plant were already
programmed by NPC.



- 11 -
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.    The overall outcome of the Project is rated unsatisfactory. The reason for the unsatisfactory
rating is twofold: (i) NPC has maintained its precarious financial situation over the Project period, and
hence the objective of ensuring NPC's financial viability has not been achieved; and (ii) the high cost of
meeting the Project's physical objective was a contributing factor to this situation, and consequently a
recalculation of the Project's NPV results in a negative value (para. 19). The importance of the Project's
financial objective is evidenced by the stringent conditions relating NPC's finances which had to be met
prior to Board presentation (para. 9). NPC's financial viability was seen as critical, since the
Corporation's financial problems were considered to be one the key contributing factors leading to the
power crisis in the first place (para. 2). Hence, ensuring the sustainability of the Project's short term
physical objective, to resolve the immediate needs of the power crisis, was dependent on also achieving
the longer term financial objective.'4
38.   Nevertheless, this outcome must be qualified by noting that: (i) the physical objective to alleviate
the power crisis was substantially achieved; (ii) the magnitude of the power crisis may have been such
that the avoided cost of outages was substantially higher than the assessment in the SAR, hence the
Project may have resulted in a significant net benefit in macroeconomic terms; and (iii) in meeting the
Project's physical objective, the implementation performance of NPC was satisfactory. Many of the
factors leading to both the Project's poor economic return and the perpetuation of NPC's precarious
financial situation were as a consequence of decisions made by the Government and NPC prior to the
Project's inception. To a large extent these factors constrained NPC's possible response to the power
crisis.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
39.   The Bank's 1994 Power Sector Study (Report 13313-PH) and 1997 Energy Strategy and Pricing
Study (Report 16605-PH) have built on the ESP by providing the strategic framework for restructuring
and privatizing the power sector, and NPC in particular. More specifically, the covenants of the
Transmission Grid Reinforcement loan include the requirement for the separation of NPC's transmission
activities as a separate corporate entity, and provide a framework of procedures, under a Transmission
Grid Code, for implementing optimal generation dispatch. This loan also includes a large technical
assistance component (co-financed by ADB) for NPC to build on the institutional support provided by the
Project, and a PHRD grant to ERB to strengthen its capacity to evaluate transmission charges and related
dispatch issues. Nevertheless, NPC's precarious financial situation, the slow pace of sector reform and
the fragmented nature of the distribution sector, continue to be major areas of concern. The Bank will
continue to monitor NPC's finances through ongoing supervision of the Leyte projects and the
Transmission Grid Reinforcement project. However, a resolution of these outstanding issues still requires
a concerted effort by DOF, DOE, NPC, PNOC-EDC and the National Electrification Administration
(NEA), with coordinated assistance from both the Bank and ADB.
14 At the time, the Region indicated that, if the changes to NPC's tariffs specified as conditions for Board
presentation were not approved, then further processing of this Loan and subsequent loans to the power sector
would be stopped.



- 12 -
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
40.    The stringent conditions of Board presentation relating to the Project's financial objective, which
resulted in presentation delays in the face of a crisis, suggest that the resolution of short term problems
was not to be at the expense of the long term financial viability of the Philippine power sector's key
player. However, because the IPP arrangements associated with the Project were developed under crisis
conditions, they came at a high cost. This has been a contributing factor to the failure of this Project to
meet its financial objective and has detrimentally affected the Project's economic rate of return. Such an
outcome indicates the need to clearly identify potential interactions between project objectives, and
highlights the pitfalls in not conducting sufficient sensitivity analyses of a project's economic rate of
return, particularly in a sector undergoing major structural reform. Further, return on rate base (RORB)
and debt service ratio (DSR) financial covenants are not in themselves sufficient indicators of a public
utility's financial resiliency. Had NPC actually met the covenants in every year of the Project, this would
have masked the actual precariousness of the Corporation's financial position.



- 13 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
POWER TRANSMISSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3626-PH)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives                 Substantial           Partial             Negligible       Not applicable
(0                 ('                    ('                  ('
Macroeconomic policies                           Q                   O                     0                  E
Sector policies                                  0                                         0                  0
Financial objectives                             Q                   O                                        0
Institutional development                        QE                                        0                  0
Physical objectives                               3                  0                     0                  0
Poverty reduction                                E                   0                     0                  CD
Gender concerns -                                o                   O                     O
Other social objectives                          Q                   O                     0 Q
Environmental objectives                         Q                   O                     0                  E
Public sector management                         Q                   O                     0                  O
Private sector development                       o                   O                     O
Economic benefits                                O                   
B. Project Sustainability                      Likely             Unlikely             Uncertain
('                  ()                  (0
0                   0                    0
C. Bank Performanee                            Hiehly
Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
('3                 ('                   ('
Identification                                   0                                         0
Preparation assistance                           Q                                         0
Appraisal                                       OQ                   0
Supervision                                      Q                                         El
D. Borrower Performance                        Highly
Satisfactory       Satisfactory            Deficient
('3                 (3                   ('3
Preparation                                      0                   0                     0
Implementation                                     ]                                       Q D
Covenant compliance                              0                   O                     O
Operation (if applicable)                        0                   E                     0
E. Assessment of Outcome                       Highyi                                                        Highly
Satisfactory        Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory
('                  ('                   ('
Assessment of outcome                            Ol O                                      E



- 14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                      Year of            Status
approval
Loan 2201-PH & 2202-PH        Promote private oil companies in petroleum      1982              Closed
Petroleum Exploration Promotion  exploration and strengthen the exploration
Project                       capabilities of Bureau of Energy and PNOC
Loan 2203-PH Geothermal       Improve national strategy for geothermal exploration,    1982     Closed
Exploration Project           government geothermal development policy and
institutions; facilitate private involvement in
geothermal exploration etc.
Loan 2969-PH                  Support the least cost source incremental capacity  1988          Closed
Bacon-Manito Geothermal Power. for Luzon grid; and strengthen institutional
Project                       capabilities and financial viability
Loan 3163-PH                  Orient the development strategy of the energy   1990              Closed
Energy Sector Project         sector-National Power Corporation component
Loan 3164-PH                  Orient the development strategy of the energy   1990              Closed
Energy Sector Project         sector-Philippines National Oil Corporation
component
Loan 3165-PH Energy Sector    Orient the development strategy of the energy   1990              Closed
Project                       sector-Government component (DOE, ERB, EMB,
NEA)
JEXIM NPC-JEXIM component of First phase of a least-cost energy sector        1992              Active
Loan 3163-PH                  development program
Loan 3439-PH Rural Electrification Enhance National Electrification Administration's  1992      Active
Revitalization Project        effectiveness, REC's Investment Program for
1992-95
Loan 3700-PH, Loan 3702-PH    Develop geothermal resources for power generation,    1994        Active
Leyte-Cebu Geothermal Project   strengthen institutions and their financial viability
Loan 3746-PH/Loan 3747-PH     Develop geothermal resources for power generation,    1994        Active
Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project  strengthen institutions and their financial viability
Loans 3996-PHI3997-PH         Support the Government's plan to restructure the  1996            Active
Transmission Grid Reinforcement  National Power Corporation and power sector
Project                       privatization



- 15 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                    Date planned             Date actual
Identification                            N/A                      June 1992
Preparation                               N/A                     June 1992
ppraisal                                 N/A                     September 1992
Negotiations                              September 1992           October 16-20, 1992
Board presentation                        December 1992            June 22, 1993
Signing                                   N/A                     August 13,1993
Effectiveness                             N/A                      December 6, 1993
Project completion                        June 30, 1996            December 31, 1997
Loan closing                              December 30, 1996        December 31, 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank FY                                   FY93           FY94          FY95         FY96*       FY97       FY98
Appraisal estimate                         00.0          21.60        55.20          98.40     110.00
Revised estimates (August 1995)*           0.00          17.73        36.66          48.40      54.55
Revised estimates (January 1997)t          0.00          17.73        36.66          42.97      46.10      51.60
Actual                                     0.00          17.73        36.66          42.97      46.64      51.60
Actual as % of revised estimate            100            100           100           100        101         100
* As of August 25, 1995, US$55.45 million of the loan was officially canceled: from Category I, US$17.95 million equivalent; from Category 2
US$3 1.0 million equivalent; and from the Unallocated Category, US$6.5 million equivalent
t As of January 14, 1997, US$2.95 million of the loan was canceled: from Category 1, US$2.45 million equivalent; and from the Unallocated
Category, US$0.5 million



- 16-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Procurement Monitorins
Contract Description                                                 Contract Completion
Starting Date     Planned Date          Actual Date      Remarks
Part A - TRANSMISSION SYSTEM EXPANSION
AND REINFORCEMENT
t. Supply of T/L Materials
a. F & D OF WOOD POLES FOR FAST TRACK      11-Jan-93         1 5-Apr-93           31 -Mar-93      Ahead of schedule
PROJECTS
b. SUPPLY OF INSULATORS FOR FAST           23-Mar-94           N/A                   N/A
TRACK PROJECTS
2. Supply of Substation Equipment
a. POWER TRANSFORMERS FOR                  29-Mar-94         31-Dec-94            24-Nov-94       Ahead of schedule
BALINTAWAK & DOLORES S/S
b. SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT FOR MAKBAN         14-Mar-94         31-Dec-94            09-Nov-94       Ahead of schedule
A & B SWITCHYARD
c. SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT FOR                29-Mar-94         31-Dec-94            24-Nov-94       Ahead of schedule
BALINTAWAK, DOLORES AND BINAN S/S
d. SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT FOR BATANGAS    06-Jul-94            31-Dec-94            03-Mar-95       3 month delay
S/S, OLONGAPO S/S, CALACA S/Y AND
MANILA SNY
3. Supply of TIL Materials
a. 795 MCM ACSR POWER CONDUCTOR FOR    02-Aug-93             31-Jan-94            09-Feb-94        I month delay
T/L PROJECTS
b. OVERHEAD GROUND WIRE, GROUND            29-Jun-93         31-Jan-94            30-Apr-94       4 month delay
LEAD WIRE, AND GUY WIRE FOR F/T
PROJECTS
c. OVERHEAD GROUND WIRE, LINE              28-May-93         31-Jan-94            24-Jan-94       Ahead of schedule
A1TACHMENTS, HARDWARE
ACCESSORIES FOR FIT PROJECTS
d. STEEL POLES FOR FAST TRACK              31-May-93         31-Jan-94            24-Jan-94       Ahead of schedule
PROJECTS
e. ADDITIONAL ORDER OF STEEL POLES         13-Apr-94         31-Jan-94            30-Sep-94       7 month delay
AND ACCESSORIES



- 17-
Table 5 (continued): Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Procurement Monitoring
Contract Description                                                  Contract Completion
Starting Date     Planned Date          Actual Date      Remarks
4. Replacement of Steel Towers
a. REPLACEMENT OF STEEL TOWERS             06-Apr-95          04-Oct-95            05-Aug-95        Ahead of schedule
BORROWED FROM CALACA-DASMARINAS
T/L
5. Kalayaan-Tayabas TIL Rehabilitation          N/A               N/A                   N/A           Project component only
to cover cost of
accelerating contract
schedule
6. Upgrade of Telecommunication Network of   07-Feb-97                                07-Dec 97
Batangas
7. Telecommunication Equipment for                              16-Jun-97             31-Dec 97
Expansion/Upgrade of Luzon Telecom
System
Part B - REHABILITATION OF BATAAN               N/A               N/A                   NIA           Project component
THERMAL PLANT                                                                                       canceled
Part C - INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
(TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEICONSULTANCY)
1. Efficiency and Operational Improvement                                            30-Aug-93
Study
2. Master Plan Study for EHV Transmission    28-Nov-94           Apr-95              30-Aug-95
3. Contracting & Economic Dispatching of                         Jul-95               31-Jul-95
Private Power Study
4. Comprehensive Tariff Study and Strategy   06-Nov-96                                31-Dec-97
Project
5. Rehabilitation of Bataan Thermal Power Plant    06-May-94     Jul-96              09-May-95
6. Northwestern Luzon EHV Consultancy         08Apr-95           Jun-96              05-Aug-95



- 18-
Table 6A: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Monitoring Indicators
i) Appraisal
Financial Year Ending 31 Dec          1992          1993          1994           1995            1996            1997
ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS
Total Energy Sales (GWh)             23911         27122          29294          31531          34393           37034
Net sales (Excl. Magellan & Test-Run)  23743       26467         28916           30293          33111           34606
Power SoldfTotal Pop. (kWh/person)     372          414            438            462            494             522
MANAGEMENT/EFFICIENCY
# Days Accounts Receivable             39            39            38             38              38              38
% Receivables on Billing              10.6%        10.6%          10.5%          10.5%          10.5%           10.5%
Total number Employees               14,162        13,976        13,996          14,017         14,038          14,297
#of operational Employees            12,129        11,943         11,943         11,943         11,943          12,182
Personnel Cost on revenues           4.41%         3.75%          3.37%          3.08%          2.71%           2.78%
Sales per Oper. Employees (MWh)       1958          2216          2421           2536            2772            2841
% Total Energy Losses                 7.2%          7.3%          7.4%           7.4%            7.3%            7.4%
FINANCIAL RATIOS:
Average Tariff - P/kWh                1.59          1.75           1.97           2.22           2.49            2.84
Average Tariff Increase P/kWh         0.193         0.166         0.212          0.252          0.268            0.357
Average Tariff - USc/kWh               5.9           6.2           6.4            7.0             7.5             8.3
Working Ratio/i                       63.1%        59.0%          58.4%          57.4%          58.7%           57.8%
Operating Ratio/2                     83.5%        79.6%          78.9%          78.0%          78.4%           78.1%
Rate of Return-NPC's Charter/l        5.8%          7.7%          7.7%           7.7%            7.7%            7.7%
Rate of Return on Revalued Assets /4  6.1%          8.0%          8.0%           8.0%            8.0%            8.0%
Rate on Capital Employed /5           -1.9%         3.5%          5.0%           6.0%            7.9%            7.8%
Net Profit on Equity                  1.9%          6.8%          6.6%           7.5%            8.9%            9.8%
Self-Financing Ratio (3-years Avg.)/   7%           20%           15%             25%            36%             68%
Debt Service Coverage/7               1.11          1.47          1.35            1.59           1.73            2.44
Interest Coveragel_                   1.15          1.65          1.55            1.55           1.54            1.72
Debt/Equity Ratio/9                  44.5%         51.6%         55.5%           57.3%          58.4%           57.0%
IN CONSTANT 1992 PRICES
Average Tariff - P/kWh                1.59          1.64           1.73           1.84           1.95            2.09
Real Tariff Increase ( Decrease)      4.5%          3.2%          5.2%           6.4%            6.2%            6.9%
CRITICAL FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1993-1998
VARIABLE OR INDICATOR         Minimum       Average       Maximum      VARIABLE OR INDICATOR       Minimum       Average
Cash (million Pesos)           3631          4224           4901       Debt Service Ratio            1.3           1.9
Average Tariff - P/kWh          1.64          1.88          2.09       Days Accounts Receivable       38            38
Working ratio                  57.4%         58.2%         59.0%       Total Debt/Equity Ratio      51.6%         55.4%
Rate of return (Revalued)      8.0%          8.0%           8.0%
1/ Operational expenses excluding depreciation / operational revenues
2/ Total operational expenses (including depreciation & prov. for d/a) / operational revenues
3/ Operating income on net average fixed assets plus one sixth of cash operating expenditures
4/ Operating income on net average revalued fixed assets in operation
5/ Profit before interest and taxes / total equity and reserves
6/ Cash available from operations / 3-year average capital expenditures
7/ Operating cash flow divided by debt service (principal plus operational interest)
8/ Profit before interest and taxes / total interest (operational and capitalized)
9/ Long-term debt / (long-term debt plus total equity)



- 19-
Table 6A: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Monitoring indicators
ii) Actual
Financial Year Ending 31- Dec.          1992              1993              1994              1995              1996
ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS
Total Energy Sales (GWh)               23,958            24,805            28,745            31,031            33,381
Net sales (Excl. Magellan & Test-Run)  23,875            24,712            28,499            30,272            32,549
Power Sold/Total Pop. (kWh/person)       367               370               419               442              487
MANAGEMENT/EFFICIENCY
4 Days Accounts Receivable               38                39                36                38                37
%Receivables on Billing                10.70%            11.91%            10.33%            11.13%            11.22%
Total number Employees                 14,208            14,560            15,794             14,742           13,119
# of operational Employees             11,185             13,142            12,448            12,164           11,024
Personnel Cost on revenues             3.76%              3.85%            4.97%              6.41%            6.39%
Sales per Oper. Employees (MWh)         2,142             1,887             2,309             2,551             3,028
% Total Energy Losses                   6.8%              6.8%              6.1%              6.8%              6.3%
FINANCIAL RATIOS:
Average Tariff - P/kWh                   1.58              1.64              1.77              1.73              1.96
Average Tariff Increase P/kWh           0.18               0.06              0.13             (0.04)            0.23
Average Tariff - USc/kWh                 6.3               5.9               7.3               6.6               7.4
Working Ratio/I                         62.4%             60.3%             61.1%             56.9%             59.5%
Operating Ratio/2                       61.2%             83.5%             76.1%             78.0%            79.1%
Rate of Retum-NPC's Charter/3           6.8%              5.7%              8.0%              7.0%              7.9%
Rate of Return on Revalued Assets /4    7.1%              5.9%              8.3%              7.3%              8.2%
Rate on Capital Employed /5             6.1%              1.9%              7.2%              3.7%              8.6%
Net Profit on Equity                    6.1%              1.9%              7.2%              3.7%              5.6%
Self-Financing Ratio (3-years Avg.)16   5.9%             -12.0%             17.4%             -3.3%             -5.3%
Debt Service CoverageL7                 1.05              0.81              1.24              0.96              1.31
Interest Coverage/8                     1.28              2.32              2.37              2.39              2.75
Debt/Equity Ratio/9                    49.8%              57.1%            49.9%              59.0%            75.1%
1/ Operational expenses excluding depreciation / operational revenues
2/ Total operational expenses (including depreciation & prov. for d/a) / operational revenues
3/ Operating income on net average fixed assets plus one sixth of cash operating expenditures
4/ Operating income on net average revalued fixed assets in operation
5/ Profit before interest and taxes / total equity and reserves
6/ Cash available from operations / 3-year average capital expenditures
7/ Operating cash flow divided by debt service (principal plus operational interest)
8/ Profit before interest and taxes / total interest (operational and capitalized)
9/ Long-term debt / (long-term debt plus total equity)



- 20 -
Table 69: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Sources and Applications of Funds
i) Appraisal
1992          1993            1994           1995            1996            1997
SOURCES OF FUNDS:
Income Before Interest Charges            7733          9597            11437          12914           14991           20224
+Depreciation & Depletion               7024           7944           10880          12407           14537           16962
+Depreciation Other Assets               213           231             243            243             243             243
+Net Disposal of Fixed Assets             0              0              0               0              0               0
-Other Cash Non-Oper. Expenses           225            185            191             196            202             208
OPERATING CASH FLOW                       14745         17587           22369          25368          29569            37221
LESS:
Incr. Working Capital Excl. Cash (+)    (3015)         (218)           240             33            (1504)          (978)
Inor. Other Assets/Liabilities          (546)           118            107            116             125             135
Increase in Oil Taxes (Refunds)         3098          (1000)          (2000)         (4000)          (3253)            0
TaxandDividendsPaid                      91             97             104             111            119              128
Other Cash Expenses                      619           1589             0              0               0               0
CASH AVAIL. BEFORE DEBT SERVICE           14499         17000           23917          29107           34081           37937
Principal Payments 1/                     8155          7664            12728          13172           13198           13340
Operational Interest                      5093           4774           6638            7753           7867            9042
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                        13248         12438           19366          20925           21065           22382
NET INTERNAL CASH GENERATION              1251          4562            4551           8182            13016           15554
Generation (Excluding BOTs)             4552           19335          21360           12125          14610            9676
Transmission                            2407           5523           10071           16215          16484            15439
Island Grid (Rural)                     1456           555             606            334             358             407
Engineering                              973           826             854            761             783             895
Other& Taxes                            3407           4952            7447           6179            5940            6194
Interest Capitalized                     680           1323            1352           2390           3780             4300
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                13475         32513           41690          38004           41954           36912
BALANCE TO BE FINANCED                    12224         27951           37139          29822           28938           21358
SOURCES OF FINANCE:
EQUITY CONTRIBUTIONS                      854           4300            1325            1348           1372             1396
LOAN FINANCING:
Ongoing Loans                           9995           18973          22809           7390           2638              166
Loan Restructuring                      5509            0               0               0              0               0
Loans under Negotiation                   0            2655            5067           12778          16142            9360
Foreign Loans to be Obtained              0              0            3890            5784           11458           15864
Local Loans & Proposed Bonds              0              0            2000            2000            1000             0
TOTAL BORROWING                           15504         21627           33765          27952           31238           25391
TOTAL FINANCING                           16358         25927           35090          29300           32610           26787
INCREASE (DECREASE) CASH & TEMP.          4134          (2023)          (2049)         (522)           3672            5429
% Capital Expend. On Net Assets           14.4%         28.5%           30.1%          25.2%           24.5%           19.5%
% Loan Financing of Capital Expend.       115%           67%            81%             74%            74%              69%
Debt Service Ratio                        1.09           1.37            1.24           1.39            1.62            1.69
Self-Financing Ratio                       9%            14%             11%            22%            31%              42%
Self-Financing/Avg. 3Y Capital Exp.        7%            16%             12%            20%            33%              42%
1/ Includes the debt buyback in 1992 of P1,823 million



-21 -
Table 6B: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Sources and Applications of Funds
ii) Actual
1992             1993             1994             1995              1996
SOURCES OF FUNDS:
Income Before Interest Charges                 7078             6665             11981            11544             13318
+Depreciation & Depletion                    7081              9418             7546            11082             12482
+Depreciation Other Assets                    146              165              816              250               582
+Net Disposal of Fixed Assets                  6                3                0               (22)              (2)
,+Other Cash Non-Oper. Expenses              (335)              543             1493             685               (931)
-Other Cash Non-Oper. Expenses               2249              (507)            2476            (280)             (1168)
OPERATING CASH FLOW                           16225             16287            21306            23240             24281
LESS:
lncr. Working Capital Excl. Cash (+)        (1461)             6706            (2243)           (785)              4790
Incr. Other Assets/Liabilities               1152              9313            7389             7460               9118
Increase in Oil Taxes (Refunds)                0              (7018)           (5188)           (6861)            (6286)
Tax and Dividends Paid                         0                0                0               2300               0
Other Cash Expenses                          1503             (1552)           (1652)            1718              (548)
CASH AVAIL. BEFORE DEBT SERVICE               15031             8838             23000            19388             17207
Principal Payments 1/                          9121             6111             11625            12941             11671
Operational Interest                           5209             4795             6977             7350              6607
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                            14330             10806            18602            20291             18578
NET INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                   701              (2068)           4398             (903)            (1371)
Generation (Excluding BOTs)                  6128             18128            24635            6155              21931
Transmission                                 2975              4401             4876             8656
Island Grid (Rural)                          1508              510              786              553
Engineering                                   666              1172             714              1013
Other & Taxes                                2602              1704             1632             2670
Interest Capitalized                          777              1442             1169             1558              1384
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                    14858             27357            33812            20605             23315
BALANCE TO BE FINANCED                        13955             29425            29414           21508              24686
SOURCES OF FINANCE:
EQUITY CONTRIBUTIONS                           410              4350              815             2300                0
FOREIGN GRANTS                                  40               388              952             600                325
LOAN FINANCING:
Ongoing Loans                                11272            23995            27598            17377             24877
Loan Restructuring                           2866              n/a              n/a              n/a               n/a
Loans under Negotiation
Foreign Loans to be Obtained
Local Loans & Proposed Bonds
TOTAL BORROWING                               14138             23995            27596            17377             24877
TOTAL FINANCING                               14588             28733            29383            20277             25202
INCREASE (DECREASE) CASH & TEMP.               633              (692)            (51)            (1231)              516
% Loan Financing of Capital Expend.           96.47%           87.71%           81.62%           84.33%            106.70%
Debt Service Ratio                             1.05             0.81             1.24             0.86               0.93
Self-Financing Ratio                           5%               -8%              13%              -4%                -6%
Self-Financing/Avg. 3Y Capital Exp.            14%              -23%             39%             -13.2%            -17.6%
1/ Includes the debt buyback in 1992 of P1,823 million



Table 6C: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status
Issues/Areas of Action                Required Action                       Implementing Agency/Schedule           Status (by end - November 1997)
A. GENERAUINSTITUTIONAL
1) Energy Sector Coordination         Establish the Department of Energy (DOE)  President/Congress, December 1992.  Done.
Formalize DOE organization.           DOE Secretary, March 1993.             Done.
2) Privatization                      Propose clear congressional policy     ECC/President                         Done.
statement on private sector involvement in
energy projects.
a) NPC/Power Sector                  Complete OEA-commissioned study of    OEA-Price Waterhouse, November 1992.   Done.
privatization options
Submission of privatization plan.     DOE, NPC, September 1993.              Done.
Approval of privatization plan.       Cabinet, March 1994.
Continue BOT approach for new projects;   NPC, June 1993.                    1000 MW Sual Coal Fired Plant (CEPA)
conduct bidding and come up with short list                                  Energy Conversion Contract Signed -
for the 900 MW and 200 MW BOT coal                                           May 20, 1994. Mobilization - April 9, 1995.  t>
plants for Luzon and Mindanao.
200 MW Mindanao Coal Fired Plant
(HARBIN) negotiations ongoing.
Complete evaluation of bids.          October 1993.                          10 contracts for 2300 MW already signed
with the private sector. Other than the ABB
Awarding of contracts.                December 1993.                         BTO's (600 MW) all are BOT contracts.
3) Oil Industry Deregulation          Congressional policy statement on oil  President/Congress, December 9, 1992.    Done (DOE Law).
industry deregulation.
Complete ERB Energy Pricing Study.    ERB/IDP, June 1993.                    Final study issued in March 1993.
Complete industry cost structure study.  DOE/K&M, August 1993.               Draft report submitted March 1993.
Recommend presidential endorsement of   DOE/ERB/OP, September 1993.          Done.
bill amending OPSF's law to effect
automatic price adjustments.



Table 6C: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                 Required Action                           Implementing                  Status (by end - November 1997)
Agency/Schedule
Set maximum oil industry rate of return.  ERB/Oil Companies, September  Done. ERB set a 10.6% average ROR for Oil
1993.                        Companies (April 16,1993)
Submit program for oil decontrol and other  DOE, 1996.                  Republic Act No. 8180, Oil Deregulation Law
deregulation activities.                                                approved on March 29, 1996, but the law was
declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court on
November 5, 1997, and is therefore invalid.
Congress approved a new and more competitive
deregulation law in February 1998.
Approval of deregulation program.         Cabinet, 1996.                - do -
Recommend presidential endorsement of ERB   ERB/OP, 1996.               - do -
charter to allow decontrol of oil prices.
Deregulate dealership activities (deregulation    DOE, 1996.            - do -
measures non-price related would be
advanced whenever feasible).
Remove inter-fuel price subsidies.        DOE/ERB, 1996.                - do -
Draft bill rationalizing the tariff tax component   DOE/ERB/OP, 1996.   - do -
of petroleum product prices.
Recommend presidential endorsement of draft  DOE/OP, 1996.              - do -
bill.
Submit petroleum import/export liberalization    DOE/ERB, 1996.         - do -
schedule.
4) Single Price-Regulatory Body for Utilities  Legislation placing NPC and REC's under ERB  Congress/President.  Done. DOE Law in operation.
price regulation.
5) More Efficient Approval System for  Presidential directive to DAR, DA, NEDA,  ECC, DAR, NEDA, DENR,         Done.
Energy Projects                        DENR, November 1992.                      November 1992.
Agreement between DENR and RDC regarding  DENR/RDC, June 1993.          Done. Latest guidelines for ECC processing
approval requirements and time limit for action.                        issued in July 1994.
Agree to approve power projects on a program   NPC/NEDA, June 1993.     Completed March 1993.
basis instead per individual projects.
NPC to develop standard BOT contracts for  NPC/NEDA, September 1993.    Model contracts for coal, diesel and gas turbines
various power plant technologies.                                       already developed.
Approval of standard contracts.           NEDA-ICC. One month after
completion of contract by NPC.



Table 6C: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                Required Action                          Implementing                 Status (by end - November 1997)
Agency/Schedule
B. POWER SECTOR
1) Availability and Reliability of Supply  Ensure completion of fast track projects.  NPC/DOE, October 1993.  6 BOT contracts in operation.
Ensure implementation of power development   NPC/DOE, ongoing.        PDP approved by ICC and presented to the
program.                                                              Cabinet in May 1993.
Submit plan to rehabilitate or retire/replace  NPC, December 1993.    Done. Table 4.3.1 of 1995 PDP.
aging plants.
Evaluate and approve NPC plan and allocate   NEDA. January 1994.      Done. OPSF and PAGCOR grants approved.
funding for technical assistance.
Adopt rehabilitation or retirement plan for old                       Rehabilitation of Sucat 2 & 3 completed.
plants.
2) NPC's Financial Viability          Conduct more effective public information  NPC/Cabinet, Oct-Dec 1992.  Effective public information on price increase in
program on the need for NPC rate increase.                            place.
Decision on acceptable rate of return base  ERB, September 1993.      Done. February 1993.
methodology.
Motion for early resolution by the Supreme  NPC, May 1993.            Tax exemption cases of NPC were resolved by the
Court of NPC fuel tax exemption cases.                                Supreme Court favorably for NPC in the case of
Maceda vs. Macaraig (197 SCRA 771).
Approve automatic foreign exchange       NPC, May 1993.               Formula applied once exchange rate exceeded
adjustment formula.                                                   P28/dollar.
Implement rate adjustment to meet loan   NPC, December 1992.          NPC implemented tariff increase of P0.18/kWh
covenants. Develop annual projection of rate   NPC, end of each year.  from March 26, 1993, and additional P0.03/kWh
increase or decrease investment and overall                          from July 1993.
financial requirement.
Propose to DBM the level of government equity  NPC, March each year.  Approved for 1993.
infusion to NPC. Submission of proposal for    DBM, June each year.   P3 billion from OPSF in 1993 approved bv
annual equity infusion to NPC.                                        RA 7639, in addition to the P1 billion annually
Executive support of bill proposing equity  DOE.                      Done.
infusion to NPC.
Complete operational efficiency improvement   NPC/World Bank, December  First phase report completed in March 1993. Draft
study.                                   1993.                       report for Second Phase completed end of June
1993.



Table 6C: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                 Required Action                           Implementing                   Status (by end - November 1997)
Agency/Schedule
3) Rate Restructuring (Demand charges  Complete nationwide consultation, especially in  NPC, August 1993.       Ongoing.
and direct connections)                Bacolod, Cebu and Mindanao.
Implement rate restructuring down to      NPC/Cabinet, NEA/RECs,        Done.
distribution level.                        ERB/PUs, December 1993.
4) Bataan Nuclear Power Plant (BNPP)   Complete negotiations with Westinghouse.   NPC-BNPP, December 1992.    Negotiations failed. Other options including BOT
are being considered.
Decision on BNPP operation.               Cabinet, March 1993.           Conversion of BNPP to 1500 MW gas fired plant
(BOT) approved. Bidding date to be announced.
5) Improve Electricity Distribution Efficiency  Set limit to distribution loss that can be  NEA/ERB/ECC, ongoing.  ERB Resolution 91-22 has set to reduce losses
recovered through tariff.                                                permitted in tariffs from 14% to 10% in 5 years.
Presidential endorsement of anti-pilferage bill.   ECC/OP, March 1993.   Done. (RA # 7832).
6) Energy Efficiency Standards         Finalize standards for power intensive     OEA/BPS-DTI, June 1994.       Building efficiency guidelines published March
appliances.                                                              1993.
C. DOWNSTREAM OPERATIONS                                                                                                                                         Un
1) Refinery Expansion                  Decide price adjustment for non-crude increase  ERB, May 1993.           Done.
Firm up PNOC expansion plans.             PNOC/DOE, January 1994.        Studies ongoing.
2) Coal Import Liberalization          Implement financial/technical support program    OEA, January 1994.      Initial program formulated.
for local coal.
Reduce volume and tariff restriction.     DOE/ERB/NEDA, June 1994.    All coals in temporary exclusion list until June
1996. Anthracite and lignite having a 0% tariff and
bituminous 10% tariff to 1999 and 5% thereafter.
3) Institutionalize Energy Conservation  Executive endorsement of DOE bill with   President.                    Done (DOE Law).
provisions for continuation of energy
conservation program.
D. UPSTREAM OPERATIONS
1) Geothermal Law to Encourage Private    Recommend presidential endorsement of   DOE/PNOC/OP, June 1993.       Senate hearings on SB 423 and 366 in April 1993.
Sector Participation                   pending legislation on geothermal royalties and                          Still pending.
development.
2) Improved Incentives for Oil and Gas  Recommend presidential endorsement of     DOE/OP, June 1993.
Exploration                            pending legislation on oil and gas
development.



Table 6C: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation - Energy Sector Plan Implementation Status (continued)
Issues/Areas of Action                Required Action                          Implementing                  Status (by end - November 1997)
Agency/Schedule
3) Continued Exploration Momentum     Conduct aggressive campaign to attract more                            Done.
Generated by Recent Oil Discoveries   oil explorations.
4) Promote Development and Utilization of  Intensify research and development of  DOST-PCIERD/OEA/PNOC/      Ongoing.
Renewable Energy Technologies         alternative/renewable energy technologies.  NEA. Ongoing.
Promote utilization of cost-effective alternative   OEA/NEA. Ongoing.  Ongoing.
energy systems.
Energy Sector Plan - Proposed Legislation
Issues/Areas of Action                Required Action                          Implementing                Status (by end - November 1997)
AgencylSchedule
1) Energy Sector Coordination         Enact legislation creating the Department of    PresidenVCongress    Done. RA #7638, An act creating the Department of
Energy.                                  (December 9, 1992)         Energy.
2) Oil Industry Deregulation          Enact legislation amending the OPSF Law.  December 1993.             RA #8180, Oil Industry Deregulation Act was passed  0
in 1996, but subsequently declared unconstitutional
by the Supreme Court. in November 1997. Congress
approved a new and more competitive deregulation
law in February 1998.
3) Single Price-Regulatory Body for Utilities  Included in the DOE Law.         December 1992.             Done.
Enact into law ERB charter amendment.    June 1994.                 Done. RA #'s 7638, 8180, 7832 & 8184.
4) NPC Financial Viability            Approve annual equity infusion to NPC.    December each year.        Done. RA #7639, an Act providing payment in part of
Enactment of law authorizing OPSF equity                            OPSF to NPC.
infusion to NPC.
5) Improve Electricity Distribution Efficiency  Enact effective anti-power pilferage legislation.  December 1993.  Done. RA #7832, Anti-Pilferage of Electricity & Theft
Enact law authorizing increase in NEA    March 1994.                of Electric T/L Materials.
capitalization.
6) Rationalize Oil Prices             Enact law rationalizing the tariff and tax  1996.                    Done. RA #8184, an Act Restructuring Excise Tax
component of petroleum products.                                    on Petroleum Products.
7) Energy Conservation                Refile and enact law institutionalizing energy    December 1993.     Done. EO #123, Institutionalizing the Committee on
conservation.                                                       Power Conservation and Demand Management
8) Geothermal Law                     Enact law to encourage private sector     December 1993.             Pending (SB #726 and SB #888).
participation in geothermal development.



- 27 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Technical Assistance  Purpose as defined at        Status                    Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
Efficiency and        (From SAR): To improve NPC's Final report completed    Although the NPC Board decision to restructure the
Operational          institutional systems         August 1993               Corporation and divest the organization of many of its key
Improvement Study                                                            functions has superseded some of the recommendations of
the EOIS, much of the study's analysis has validity for
whatever entity provides NPC's services. Actions on some
recommendations were put on hold, pending the outcome of
the current restructuring process. Once the restructuring is
well advanced, NPC intends to reassess the EOIS
recommendations that are pending, and implement those
that are still valid. Technical assistance provided both by the
Bank and ADB to support these efforts has been made
available under the scope of the Transmission Grid
Reinforcement project (Loans 3996-PH and 3997-PH).
Consultancy Service for (From SAR): To prepare an  Consultancy contract      Although this contract was terminated prematurely, due to
Bataan Rehabilitation    action plan to establish the  terminated May 1995   the cancellation of the project component for rehabilitating
appropriate methods and                                the Bataan thermal plant, the portion of the contract that was
specifications for the optimal                         utilized enabled NPC to revise its maintenance procedures
and environmentally sound                              for the Bataan plant. The recommendations of the report
rehabilitation of the Bataan                           were instrumental in the plant achieving an increase in firm
thermal power plant                                    capacity from 43 percent prior to 1993, to 87 percent on
average for the first half of 1997. Forced outages have been
reduced from 24 percent in 1993 to 4 percent by early 1997.
Further, NPC's 1996 Report on the Results of Operation
show that the plant now has an associated retum on its rate
base of over 50 percent.
Master Plan Study for   To determine/verify the    Final report completed April The Master Plan allowed NPC to evaluate various options
EHV Transmission      feasibility of developing an EHV  1995                 for transmission system development, in particular, in
network for the Luzon Grid and                         examining options for the Northwestern 500 kV extension in
formulate an optimum schedule                          Luzon, subsequently funded under the Transmission Grid
for superimposing the EHV                              Reinforcement project. In addition, the study assessed the
system on the existing 230 kV                          technical and economic viability of a link between Leyte and
network; to upgrade the                                Mindanao. As a result of the recommendations of the study,
analytical tools for transmission                      this link will be funded by a US$250 million loan from ADB
planning and to provide                                with a commissioning date targeted for 2003. Once
technology transfer to NPC                             completed, all of NPC's major transmission grids will be fully
engineers in this field                                interconnected. A key factor in the success of this
component was in having a member of the consultancy team
work onsite alongside NPC's counterparts for a six month
period, since there was a considerable transfer of knowledge
to staff during this time.



-28 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (continued)
Technical Assistance   Purpose as defined at      Status                  Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
Contracting & Economic To develop effective criteria,    Final report completed  The main impact of this study, being an extension of the
Dispatching of Private   guidelines and procedures for  August 1995       Transmission Master Plan Study, was as a precursor to later
Power Study           soliciting, evaluating and                          studies. In particular, the study identified possible
selecting new private power                         frameworks for an open access transmission tariff (OATT),
projects; to establish clear                        the development of which was subsequently funded under
operating criteria, procedures                      the Loan, and the need for drafting a Transmission Grid
and guidelines that promote                         Code. A Grid Code has since been developed by NPC with
system security and economic                        assistance from the National Grid Corporation (NGC) of the
operation                                           UK. As a result of the study, NPC did recognize the need for
dispatching generating plant to more closely reflect the
marginal costs of operation, and to some extent NPC
modified the generation merit order accordingly. In addition,
the study formed the basis for the detailed design of the
National Load Dispatch Center (NLDC), subsequently funded
under the Transmission Grid Reinforcement project. Further,
it identified a need to modernize many of the outstation
transducers and protection facilities to upgrade their capacity
for higher speed, accuracy and reliability.
Comprehensive Tariff   To develop an open access  Final report completed  The OATT (i.e., wheeling tariff) developed under this
Study and Strategy   transmission tariff (OATT), and  December 1997       component of the project was approved by ERB in June
assist in obtaining its approval                    1997. Two IPPs, First Gas (1050 MW) and Quezon Power
by the Energy Regulatory                            (433 MW), have signed bilateral contracts with Meralco on
Board (ERB); to develop                            the basis of being able to wheel power through NPC's
associated model transmission                       transmission network, under the terms of the OATT. In
service contracts with                              addition, Meralco is also planning to sign contracts for
independent power producers                         Magellan's proposed 300 MW development in Batangas, and
(IPPs)                                              a 100 MW cascading hydro system at Axor in Benguet, both
applying the OATT. The contractual aspect of the study has
been less useful to NPC, as an important lesson which
project staff have learned is that it is important to develop
contracts themselves (although the study did provide NPC
with some useful ideas).
NW Luzon EHV          To perform an overvoltage   Consultancy completed   This contract (in combination with the Transmission Master
Consultancy           switching surge study; to   September 1995          Plan Study) prepared the background analysis and
prepare tender documents for                        documents necessary for the Northwest Luzon transmission
substations and lines                               improvement component of the subsequent Transmission
Grid Reinforcement project.



- 29 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
WORKS                                                  Appraisal Estimate                           Latest Estimate
Local        Foreign         Total         Local         Foreign        Total
TRANSMISSION EXPANSION AND                      8.3           99.1          107.4          11.1           81.3          92.4
REINFORCEMENT
Transmission Lines                              7,8           78.6          86.5            8.9           65.2          74.1
Substation Equipment                            0.5           20.5          20.9           2.2            16.1          18.3
BATAAN POWER PLANT REHABILITATION               4.4           25.0          29.4           N/A            N/A           N/A
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                       0.3           1.5            1.8            -             3.1           3.1
Master Plan Study for EHV Power Transmission                                                -             0.5           0.5
Contracting and Economic Dispatching of Private                                             -             0.5           0.5
Power Study
Comprehensive Tariff Study and Strategy Project                                             -             0.6           0.6
Consultancy Services for Bataan Rehabilitation                                              -             0.9           0.9
of Bataan I & 2
NW Luzon EHV Consultancy                                                                    -             0.2           0.2
Efficiency and Operational Improvement Study     -            0.5            0.5            -             0.5           0.5
(Japan Grant)
TAXES AND DUTIES                                5.7           0.0            5.7            -              -              -
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION                    0.0           15.0          15.0            -              -             -
TOTALCOST                                      18.7          141.1          159.8          11.1           84.4          95.5
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
|Source                                                 Appraisal Estimate                           Latest Estimate
Local        Foreign         Total         Local         Foreign        Total
IBRD                                             -           110.0          110.0                        51.6           51.6
National Power Corporation                     18.7           30.6          49.3           11.1          32.3           43.4
Japan Grant                                      -            0.5            0.5                          0.5            0.5
TOTAL                                          18.7          141.1          159.8                         84.4          95.5



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Ypar  Capacity   Fuel    O&M        Trans-    Total  -------------- Power Generation ----- -------  Losses   Total   Luzon  Sales   Net    Avoided       Net   I
Cost     Cost    Cost    mission    Cost                    (GWh)                            Sales    Avg    Revenue   Sales    Outage    Benefit
Cost             Enron   Enron      FPP       ABB                        Rate               Benefit   Costs    +Outage
(Mil P)   (Mil P)  (Mil P)   (Mil P)   (Mil P)  Pinam   Subic II  Bauang    A&B      (%)    (GWh)  (P/kWh)   (Mil P)   (Mil P)   (Mil P)    (Mil P)
1993     1850     1657      108       829      4444    330       141                906      6.0%     1294     1.71      2213      -2231                -2231
1994    4295      4570      413       971     10249    793       754       156     2422      5.5%     3907     1.86      7256      -2994      1950      -1044
1995    4665      3040      870       412      8987    785       794      1328     2733      6.7%     5260     1.80      9477       490      5200       5690
1996    4449      3640      947       116      9152    667       638      1047     2483      3.2%     4678     1.80      8433       -719                -719
1997    4123      2464     1080       73       7740    631       747      992       732      7.6%     2866     2.08      5970      -1770                -1770
1998    5082      4685      713               10480    828       510      759      2790      6.7%     4557     2.55      11621     1141                 1141
1999    5352      2195      629                8176    417       372      305      1167      6.9%     2105     2.61      5494      -2681                -2681
2000    5629      2252      647                8527    490       422      304       1261     6.7%     2310     2.95      6815      -1712                -1712
2001    5912      2272      662                8845    414       373      283       1086     6.5%     2015     3.10      6249      -2596                -2596
2002    6222      1837      659                8718     130      107      282       1075     6.7%     1486     3.28      4876      -3842                -3842
2003    5789      2083      598                8470     187      169      282       1075     6.7%     1597     3.38      5400      -3070                -3070
2004    5286      2094      469                7849              235      282       1075     6.7%     1485     3.50      5196      -2653                -2653
2005    5584      2171      485                8240              205      278       1075     6.7%     1457     3.87      5637      -2603                -2603
2006     5900     2430      513                8844              300      278       1075     6.7%     1541     3.85      5935      -2909                -2909
2007    5900      2430      513                8844              300      278       1075     6.7%     1541     3.85      5935      -2909                -2909
2008    5286      2430      513                8230              300      278       1075     6.7%     1541     3.85      5935      -2295                -2295
2009     3090     2430      513                6034              300      278       1075     6.7%     1541     3.85      5935       -99                  -99
2010    3090      2430      513                6034              300      278       1075     6.7%     1541     3.85      5935       -99                  -99
2011    3090      2430      513                6034              300      278       1075     6.7%     1541     3.85      5935       -99                  -99
2012    3090      2430      513                6034              300      278       1075     6.7%     1541     3.85      5935       -99                  -99
2013    3090      2430      513                6034              300      278       1075     6.7%     1541     3.85      5935       -99                  -99
Net Present Values at Discount Rates Shown
10%                                           70592                                                                     56036    -14556      5518       -9037
12%                                           61845                                                                     49136    -12710      5256       -7454
14%                                           54735                                                                     43526    -11208      5010       -6198
Year       ------       Plant Factor (%) -----------------
Enron      Enron        FPP        ABB
Pinam      Subic II    Bauang
1993      36%         15%          -         25%
1994      86%         80%         9%         45%        Assumptions
1995      85%         84%         71%        50%         1) O&M cost includes the cost of purchased power above minimum offtake requirements
1996      73%         67%         56%        46%         2) Losses explicitly include station losses in addition to transmission losses
1997      69%         79%         53%        13%         3) Fast track transmission investment for 1992 (P2 million) is considered sunk
1998      90%         54%         40%        51%
1999      45%         39%         16%        21%
2000      53%         45%         16%        23%         Notes
2001      45%         39%         15%        20%         1) Data from 1993-1996 are actuals
2002      14%         11%         15%        20%         2) Plant factors from NPC estimates - November 1997
2003      20%         18%         15%        20%         3) IRR calculation is infeasible given the high negative NPV
2004                  25%         15%        20%         4) Avoided costs from SAR. Using reassessed avoided costs (para. 20) results in a positive NPV of P7.0 billion (based
2005                  22%         15%        20%            on a 10% discount rate), but an IRR of 3.5% (due to reversed cost-benefit flows)
2006-13                 32%        15%        20%



- 31 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present       Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement Section  Type        Status        Date        Date       Description of Covenant           Comments
Guarantee  3.02(a)       9           C                              Report on progress of ESP.        In compliance.
3.02(b)     9,10         C                              Review PDP annually and implement. In compliance.
3.02(c)     9,10         CP      12/31/93               Review EOIS and implement.        Some recommendations
pending until internal
restructuring complete.
Loan       3.02        9,10          C                              Review PDP annually and implement. In compliance.
3.03        9,10         CP      12/31/93               Review EOIS and implement.        Some recommendations
pending until internal
restructuring complete
3.04        6,7          C       12/31/93               Obtain clearances for rehabilitation of Related project component
Bataan.                          canceled.
3.05         9           C       12/31/93               Furnish monthly procurement reports In compliance.
and quarterly implementation reports
beginning on December 31, 1993.
3.06(b)      5           C       12/31/93               Recruit consultants for Bataan    Related project component
rehabilitation.                  canceled.
3.06(c)      12          CP                             Establish rules and procedures for    Some aspects awaiting
private sector participation.    passage of Omnibus Bill.
5.01 (b)     1           CD                             Annual Report audited each fiscal    Complied with after delay.
year.
5.02         2           C       12/31/92               Annual return not less than 8%.   In compliance for FY96
due to several favorable
one-off factors.
5.03        2,10         C       12/31/93               Revalue assets.                   In compliance.
5.04(a)      2           C                              NPC may not incur debt unless     In compliance for FY96.
forecast indicates >1.3 debt service
ratio.
5.05        2,10         CP      12/26(93               NPC to implement demand charges   Demand charges
satisfactory to the Bank.        implemented, and
additional tariffs pending
ERB approval.
C  Covenant complied with                 Covenant type:
CD = Complied with after delay                       1 = Account/Audits
CP = Complied with partially                         2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
NC = Not complied with                               3 = Flow and utilization of project funds
4 = Counterpart funding
5 = Management aspects of project or executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other



- 32 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operation Manual Statements
Statement number and title                       Description and comment on lack of compliance
None                        No significant lack of compliance with
applicable Bank manual statements observed
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (as of December 1997)
Stages of                                       Staffweek                             Amount
project cycle                                    Actual                              US$('000)
Through Appraisal                                 10.8                                  39.5
Appraisal-effectiveness                            8.6                                  26.2
Supervision                                       48.9                                 145.9
Completion                                        12.0                                  30.8
TOTAL                                             80.3                                 242.1.
Note: Two ICR missions were launched, the first, in August 1996 was prior to a request for extension of the loan closing date



- 33 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Specialized    Performance rating
Stages of        Month/   Number   SW in Staff skills  Implement. Developt. Types of
of
Project cycle    Year      Persons\1  Field: Represented Progress   Objectives Problems
Supervision I    6/94          1                  PE           S          S    As a consequence of various generation
projects being canceled the scope of work
was revised and some items completed
using alternative financing. There was
expected to be a delay in disbursements
while NPC awaited the outcome of these
developments before proceeding with
procurement.
Supervision 11   7/95          3              PE, FA, PM                        The mission took part in a DOE-sponsored
(limited mission)                                                               conference on power sector reform, and
commented on the proposed Omnibus Bill.
NPC requested a loan reallocation to finance
conductors under the Leyte-Luzon 500 kV
rehabilitation project. Instead this was
included under the scope of the
Transmission Grid Reinforcement project,
and US$55.45 million of the loan was
canceled in August 1995.
Supervision III    12/95       3              PE, ES, PM       S          S    The mission requested early action be taken
by NPC to advise the Bank how the
uncommitted loan balance would be used.
Supervision IV   6/96          2                PE, EE                          Included supervision of tariff studies.
(limited mission)
ICR I            8/96          1                  ES                            First ICR mission prior to request for loan
(limited mission)                                                               extension.
Supervision V    2/97           1                 PE                            Loan extension for delayed communications
(limited mission)                                                               contract and tariff studies. Cancellation of
additional US$2.95 million.
ICR II           11/97         2                ES, 00         S          S     Final ICR mission.
EE - Energy Economist; ES - Energy Specialist; FA - Financial Analyst; PE - Power Engineer; PM - Project Management Specialist;
00 - Operations Officer



- 34 -
APPENDICES



- 35 -                          Appendix A
PHILIPPINES
POWER TRANSMISSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3626-PH)
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Mr. Calum Gunn (EASEG) and Mr. Leo Rodaje
(EACPF) visited the Philippines from November 14 - November 21, 1997, to begin preparation of
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power Transmission and Rehabilitation
Project (Loan No. 3626-PH). The Borrower for the project is the National Power Corporation
(NPC) and the loan amount was originally US$110 million equivalent. Two cancellations
(paras 9-10) have been made, US$55.45 million in August 1995 and an additional
US$2.95 million in January 1997, reducing the final loan amount to US$51.6 million. The
original loan closing date was December 30, 1996, but there has been one extension, and the
revised closing date is now December 31, 1997.
2.    The mission team explained to NPC that the ICR process is designed to improve the
quality and effectiveness of the Bank's lending by: (i) providing feedback from implementation
experience to improve future lending strategies and design of future operations; (ii) helping to
ensure greater development impact and sustainability of the project during the operation phase;
(iii) reinforcing self-evaluation, including development impact assessment, by the Bank, the
Borrower and the Government; (iv) meeting the accountability and transparency in the Bank's
activities; and (v) maintaining a record of the implementation experience of the Bank financed
operations to facilitate assessment of the development impact.
3.    The mission collected data from NPC in order to update the tables in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) for incorporation into the ICR, comprising: (i) the project quarterly report for
June - September, 1997, which updates implementation progress, and procurement and
disbursement status; (ii) total project cost breakdowns; (iii) project monitoring indicators;
(iv) data to recalculate the project's internal rate of return; (v) NPC's income statements, balance
statements, and sources and applications of funds over the project period; (vi) NPC's draft 1997
Power Development Program; and (vii) the implementation status of the Energy Sector Plan.
4.    The mission team indicated that NPC should also prepare a summary of the findings ot
its own evaluation of the project, in less than ten pages, and requested that this be submitted to
the Bank by December 15. 1997. The team outlined to NPC that the evaluation summary should
include: (i) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operations
experience; (ii) an evaluation of NPC's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with specific emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in
the future; and (iii) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the evolution and
implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationship between NPC and
the Bank, again with special emphasis on the lessons learned.
5.    During the course of the mission, the team met with NPC's current and previous Project
Directors for the project and their staff, and also representatives from NPC's Generation Planning
Division, Transmission Planning Division, Financial Review and Management Accounting
Division, Financial Strategic Planning Division and Electricity Tariff Division. The team



Appendix A                            - 36 -
received feedback on the implementation of the various components of the project, and NPC's
finances, as is outlined below.
6.    Transmission Expansion and Reinforcement. The main objective of the project was to
alleviate the critical power shortages in Luzon that were being experienced in 1992 and 1993 (the
period of project identification and appraisal), through: (i) a transmission system expansion and
reinforcement program that would bring power to Manila from"fast track" generation plants; and
(ii) the rehabilitation of the Bataan thermal generating plant. In terms of resolving the power
crisis, the project responded to immediate needs by facilitating the transmission of over
1200 MW within Luzon, and to the Metro Manila region in particular. However, as part of the
ICR process, the mission team explained to NPC that this achievement must be evaluated in the
context of the project's actual economic costs and benefits. Hence, the internal rate of return for
the project will be recalculated on the basis of the information provided to the mission team, upon
returning to Bank Headquarters.
7.    The construction of the 91 km  Hermosa-Bocaue-Balintawak  line, completed in
June 1994, and the associated expansion of the Balintawak and Manila substations, were both
necessary to evacuate power generated from the Subic and Bataan regions to Manila. The
temporary 42 km Limay-Hermosa dual circuits, financed retroactively and completed prior to
loan signing, transmitted up to 600 MW of power from the Bataan combined-cycle plant to the
Hermosa substation. In addition, the 5 km Subic-Olongapo line, completed in February 1994,
and the expansion of the Olongapo substation, allowed the transmission of up to 100 MW from
the Enron-Subic II plant through to the Hermosa substation.
8.    In Northern Luzon, the 3 km Payocpoc-Bauang line, completed in March 1994, allowed
the export of around 200 MW from First Private Power's Bauang plant. The construction of the
20 km Pinamucan-Batangas line, completed prior to loan signing, and the expansion of the
Batangas and Binan substations, and the Calaca and Makban switchyards, connected up to
100 MW from the Enron-Pinamucan plant into the grid. (From late 1996, this component also
allowed power from the 700 MW Pagbilao plant to be transmitted to Manila). Finally, the
rehabilitation of the 37 km Kalayaan-Tayabas line, completed in November 1995, and the
expansion of the Dolores substation, were essential to bringing north up to 200 MW from the
geothermal plants in Southern Luzon. This process of transmitting power from south to north has
been continued through the scope of the Leyte-Luzon (Loan No. 3746-PH) and the Transmission
Grid Reinforcement projects (Loan No. 3996-PH and Loan No. 3997-PH).
9.    Since a proposed 600 MW BOT development by Magellan did not materialize during the
project period, this necessitated the postponement of the planned transmission reinforcement
measures in the Batangas area. Therefore, that part of the loan which related to these works was
canceled at the same time as the component for the Bataan thermal plant rehabilitation (para. 10).
10.   Bataan Thermal Plant Rehabilitation. Prior to the project, the Bataan thermal plant
(225 MW) had been operating at less than half its capacity and experienced frequent outages. Its
rehabilitation under the project scope was intended to restore the plant to full capacity. This
component of the loan in its entirety, including the remaining portion of the associated
consultancy contract, was canceled in August 1995, the justification being that the rehabilitation
would still be performed through divesting the plant to the private sector on a Rehabilitate-
Operate-Maintain (ROM) basis. As yet, this has not occurred, and therefore this component has
not been completed. However, the portion of the related consultancy contract that was utilized



-37 -                           Appendix A
did enable NPC to improve its maintenance procedures for the Bataan plant. NPC indicated to
the mission that the recommendations of this consultancy report were instrumental in the plant
achieving an increase in rated capacity and a reduction in unplanned outages.
I1.   Efficiency and Operational Improvement Study. In addition to the physical objectives
relating to the power crisis, the project had the objective of strengthening NPC's institutional
capacity through an Efficiency and Operational Improvement Study (EOIS) financed by the Japan
PHRD Grant Facility and managed by the Bank. Unfortunately, the NPC staff involved in
implementing the recommendations of this study were not available to meet with the mission
team. The team requested that NPC prepare an evaluation of the EOIS and submit it to the Bank
by December 1, 1997, indicating: (i) the extent to which the objectives of the terms of reference
for the study (SAR, Annex 6) were met; (ii) a summary of the study's recommendations; (iii) the
actions taken by NPC to implement those recommendations; and (iv) an evaluation of the
usefulness of the study in improving NPC's organizational structure and operational efficiency.
12.   Master Plan Study for EHV Transmission. This consultancy study was intended to
improve NPC's capacity to plan its future transmission requirements. NPC planning staff rated
this component of the project as exceeding their objectives. The master plan allowed NPC to
evaluate various options for transmission system development, in particular, in examining options
for the northwestern 500 kV extension in Luzon, subsequently funded under the Transmission
Grid Reinforcement loan. In addition, the study assessed the technical and economic viability of
a link between Leyte and Mindanao. As a result of the recommendations of the study, this link
will be funded by a US$250 million loan from ADB with a commissioning date targeted for 2003.
Once completed, all of NPC's major transmission grids will be fully interconnected. NPC
indicated that a key factor in the success of this component was in having a member of the
consultancy team work onsite alongside NPC's counterparts for a six month period, and that there
was a considerable transfer of knowledge to staff during this time.
13.   Contracting and Economic Dispatching of Private Power Study. NPC indicated that
the main worth of this consultancy study was as a precursor to later studies. In particular, the
study identified possible frameworks for an open access transmission tariff (OATT), the
development of which was subsequently funded under the loan (para. 14), and the need for
drafting a Transmission Grid Code. A Grid Code has since been developed by NPC with
assistance from the National Grid Corporation (NGC) of the UK. As a result of the study, NPC
did recognize the need for dispatching generating plant to more closely reflect the marginal costs
of operation, and to some extent modified the generation merit order accordingly. In addition, it
formed the basis for the detailed design of the National Load Dispatch Center (NLDC),
subsequently funded under the Transmission Grid Reinforcement loan.
14.   Comprehensive Tariff Study and Strategy Project. This consultancy study consisted
of two phases: (i) the development of an OATT, or "wheeling" tariff, and assistance in obtaining
its approval by the Energy Regulatory Board (ERB); and (ii) the development of associated
model transmission service contracts with independent power producers (IPPs). This latter
component has not yet been completed, and is as yet only in draft form. The final report will be
submitted to NPC shortly (para. 21). However, NPC indicated that this aspect of the study has
been less useful to them, as an important lesson which project staff have learned is that it is
important to develop contracts themselves (although the study provided them with some ideas).
The OATT developed under this component of the project was approved by ERB in June 1997.
Two IPPs, First Gas (1050 MW) and Quezon Power (433 MW), have signed bilateral contracts



Appendix A                            - 38 -
with Meralco on the basis of being able to wheel power through NPC's transmission network,
under the terms of the OATT. In addition, Meralco is also planning to sign contracts for
Magellan's proposed 300 MW development in Batangas, and a 100 MW cascading hydro system
at Axor in Benguet, both applying the OATT. First Gas also might expand its development (by
an additional 500 MW).
15.   NPC's Finances. The mission also discussed NPC's financial position over the project
period. A key objective of the project was ensuring NPC's financial viability to undertake the
investments necessary to alleviate the power crisis and to meet future demand growth. Moreover,
the mission indicated to NPC that the Corporation's current and future financial position is a
critical factor in rating the project's sustainability in the ICR.
16.   NPC agreed with the conclusions made during the recent visit of a Bank financial
specialist (September 1997) which indicated that the key financial problem is the Corporation's
continuing reliance on foreign borrowing. This has meant that NPC has continued to remain
greatly undercapitalized, as was recognized prior to the initiation of the project, and requires a
substantial injection of equity.  The situation has been further exacerbated by the recent
devaluation of the peso.
17.   NPC's bulk tariffs were restructured during project appraisal and as conditions of loan
effectiveness, in order to improve NPC's revenue. The restructuring included a base rate tariff
increase, and the application of automatic adjustments for the cost to NPC of fuel (i.e., petroleum
products, coal and geothermal steam), purchased power and foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
Unfortunately, the formula initially approved by ERB for the purchased power adjustment would
have had a negative impact on NPC's revenue had it been applied, and it was not until 1996 that
NPC was able to have a more favorable methodology approved. This was applied for Luzon
customers last year, and contributed to a major improvement in NPC's average rate. The
adjustment will also be applied to NPC's Visayas and Mindanao customers from the beginning of
1998, and is estimated to result in an additional revenue of P180 million per month. (The
extension of the adjustment to these customers was delayed as the revised formula would still
have had a negative impact in 1997).
18.   Another tariff change, intended at least initially to be revenue neutral, was introduced as a
covenant under the loan. This was the application of a higher demand charge component in the
bulk tariff for Meralco and other customers. Because the split of demand and energy charge
components was approved by ERB based on historical data, and NPC's customers have in most
cases subsequently improved their load factors, this change resulted in a negative impact to NPC.
19.   NPC also indicated to the mission other factors that have had or will have a negative
impact on the Corporation's financial position, including: (i) the recent application to ERB for a
lower base tariff, in an attempt to improve market share; (ii) the relatively higher cost of IPP
contracts and non-NPC geothermal projects;' (iii) project implementation delays (for the Leyte-
Cebu and Leyte-Luzon projects), resulting in high advance payments; and (iv) recent drought
conditions, resulting in a more expensive generation mix.
For 1996, the average cost of NPC's plants was reported as 1.3658 P/kWh, whereas the average for
non-NPC plants was 1.9853 P/kWh, of which the geothermal plants cost 1.6826 P/kWh.



- 39 -                           Appendix A
20.   Bank Performance. In responding to the power crisis, structuring the loan in such a way
as to allow substantial retroactive financing enabled NPC to begin construction of essential
transmission lines. With respect to its finances, NPC indicated that Bank involvement was
particularly helpful in ensuring ERB's approval of the tariff increases and adjustments during
project appraisal and, during supervision, in facilitating the consultancy study on the OATT.
Although formal supervision was light, implementation review missions on other NPC loans
allowed continuing dialogue on project progress. The presence of a local procurement specialist
at the resident mission in the early stages of the project was also helpful. However, NPC
expressed concems, common to all Bank-funded projects, regarding the time required to receive
"6no objections" from the Bank, and that changes in accountable Bank officers can result in
conflicting responses to issues.
21.   Project Components to be Completed. The only components of the project which
remain to be completed are the final submission of the second phase of the tariff study (para. 14),
and the supply of telecommunications equipment related to the NLDC facilities (para. 13) within
the scope of the Transmission Grid Reinforcement project. NPC assured the mission that these
components will be completed prior to loan closure.
22.   Operational Plan. NPC and the mission agreed to continue using NPC's monitoring
indicators (SAR. Annex 13) as measures of the ongoing sustainabilitv of the project. Since the
physical objectives relating to the resolution of the power crisis have been met, these indicators,
which relate to NPC's financial position and management efficiency, satisfactorily reflect
accordance with the institutional and financial objectives of the project.
23.   Acknowledgment. The mission wishes to express its appreciation for the cooperation
and hospitality extended to the mission team by NPC staff.



Appendix B             - 40 -
BORROWER'S
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
FOR
WORLD BANK LOAN NO. 3626 - PH
POWER TRANSMISSION & REHABILITATION PROJECT
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION



- 41 -                        Appendix B
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the project were to alleviate power shortages in Luzon
through (a) a transmission and reinforcement program needed to bring power to
Manila from the "Fast Track" generation plants and (b) the rehabilitation of the
Bataan thermal generating plant. It will also improve the performance of the energy
sector through the approval by the Government, in cooperation with the Bank, of an
Energy Sector Plan covering policies, institutions and implementing mechanisms. In
addition it will ensure the financial viability of NPC to undertake a massive and long
overdue investment program and improve its institutional setup.
The project will have the following major components: (a) expansion of the
transmission system in the Bataan/Batangas areas west of Metro Manila: (b)
provision of goods and materials (conductors, insulators and supports) to reinforce
the transmission system; (c) rehabilitation of the two units (Unit #1, 75 MIW and Unit
#2, 150 MW) of the Bataan oil-fired thermal power plant; (d) consulting assistnace to
prepare a master plan to develop the 500 kV extra high voltage (EHV) system and
rehabilitate the Bataan thermal plant; and (e) improvement of NPC's institutional
systems.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
In the Bataan area, the construction of the 42 km. Limay -Hermosa transmission
lines 1 and 2 which were completed in April 1993 and December 1993 respectively,
enabled the evacuation of up to 600 MW of power from the Bataan combined cycle
power plants to Hermosa Substation; the 5 km. Subic-Olongapo T/L completed in
February 1994, evacuated power of up to 100 MW from the Enron II power plant
through Hermosa Substation ; and the completion of the 91 km. Hermosa-Bocaue-
Balintawak line in June 1994 and the expansion of its associated substations finally
brought the power from Bataan area to Metro Manila.
In Bauang, La Union area, the completion of the 3 km. Payocpoc-Bauang line in
March 1994, made possible the transmission of power of up to 200 MW from First
Private Power Plant to the Luzon Grid
In the Batangas area, the completion of the 20 km. Pinamucan-Batangas line in
April 1993, enabled the transmission of up to 100 MW from Enron I power plant to
the grid.
In Quezon province, the rehabilitation of the 37 km. Kalayaan-Tayabas line which
was completed in November 1995 and the expansion of Dolores Substation, enabled
the transmission of up to 200 MW from the geothermal plants in Bicol and Pagbilao
thermal plant.



Appendix B                                - 42 -
The following projects and consultancy services under the loan were completed:
A.  TRANSMISSION SYSTEM EXPANSIONAND REINFORCEMENT
I. Transmission Lines (Supply and Erection)
a. Limay-Hermosa Line 1, 42 km, SC  - Completed April 1993
b. Pinamucan-Batangas, 20 krn, SC   - Completed April 1993
c. Limay-Hermosa Line 2, 42 km, SC - Completed December 1993
d. Subic-Olongapo, 5 kn, DC         - Completed February 1994
e. Payocpoc-Bauang, 3 kcm, SC       - Completed March 1994
f. Hermosa-Bocaue-Balintawak,       - Completed June 1994
91 Iam, SC, SP
g. Kalayaan-Tayabas 500 KV Rehab.  - Completed November 1995
37 km, DC, ST
11. Substations Expansion (Supply)     - Delivered March 1995
a. Balintawak S/S               f. Batangas S/S
b. Dolores S/S                   g. Calaca Swyd
c. Makban A Swyd                 h. Olongapo S/S
d. Makban B Swyd                 i. Manila S/S
e. Binan S/S                    j. Spares
B.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/CONSULTANCY
a. Master plan Study for EHV Power Trans.  - Completed April 1995
(PROMON)
b. Contracting Economic Dispatching of    - Completed July 1995
Private Power Study (PROMON)
c. Consultancy Services for Bataan Thermal  - Contract cancelled on
Power Plant Units 1 & 2 (EBASCO)        May 9, 1995.
d. NW Luzon Contracting Consultancy       - Completed July 1996
(EBASCO)
2



- 43 -                        Appendix B
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Problems/Causes of delay
1. In Procuring Goods and Works
a. Failure of suppliers to comply with the provisions of the contract.
b. Delay in the delivery of supplies.
2. In Construction Management
a. Changes in work specifications/contract conditions.
b. Poor quality of contractors work.
c. Right-of-way problems.
3. In Loan utilization
a. Failure to comply with the banks procurement guidelines.
b. Additional candidate projects under the loan disapproved by the Bank.
Solution to the Problem:
1. Suppliers should be made aware of the requirements of the contract specially
the delivery schedule and its consequencies if the requirements are not
complied with.
2. The right-of-way should be cleared first before a project could start the
construction.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Prospects of project sustainability appears to be very good. The power crisis has
been resolved in Luzon. The combined efforts by the Independent Power Producers
(IPP) who put up the new power plants and the construction/erection of the critical
transmission line projects by NPC led to a substantial capacity addition to the grid in
1993 and 1994 that eventually ended the power crisis.
Transmission line and generation projects laid out in NPC's Power Development
Program (PDP) (1994-2005) are being implemented to meet the projected growth in
demand for power in the next eight years notwithstanding the reforms in NPC to carry
forward the process of orderly energy growth, such as; a) restructuring of NPC and
privatization of various generating plants; b) creation of an independent transmission
company which will provide IPP's with open access to the power market and thus
introduce competition among power suppliers; and c) development of adequate
projects suitable for private participation.
3



Appendix B                                - 44 -
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
The Bank's performance in administering the implementation of the Project was
generally satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The performance of the Borrower/Implementing Agency (NPC), was generally
satisfactory. However, NPC had to cancel a total of $ 58.4 million from the loan due
to the cancellation of the Rehabilitation of Bataan Thermal Plant I & 2 Project and
the deferment of the 600 MW Magellan Utilities project which led to the cancellation
of the transmission line project in the Batangas area. The remaining $ 51.6 million
were contracted out by NPC before the closing of the loan.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The Project is considered to be very successful because it has fully achieved its
objective that is to alleviate power shortage in Metro Manila
H. FUTURE OPERATION
NPC Management, in its effort to direct the overall employee efforts towards the
achievement of the corporate mission of providing efficient, reliable and economic to
the country, developed adopted in 1995 the Productivity Enhancement Program
(PrEP) a mechanism to reward good performances. The program components and
brief description of the procedures follows:
1. Performance Targets
Within the first quarter of every year, NPC sets its annual corporate
performance targets which should result from consultation and
discussion with all the functional groups.
a. Capacity Addition                           1996 Targets
-generation capacity in megawatts    =     940 MW
-transmission lines in circuit kilometers    =  637 ckm
-substation capacity in million volt-ampere =  580 MVA
b. System Efficiency                    =     97.48 %
c. Reliability Indicator                =     99.87 %
d. Operating Ratio                      =     0.79
f. Others
4



- 45 -                        Appendix B
Each work group (i.e. functional group/regional center, department
and division) shall prepare its performance targets and work program
in support of the corporate target. Such targets and standards shall be
agreed upon by both the head of the work group and his/her immediate
superior, and confirmed by the next higher supervisor.
2. Performance Standards
Performance indicators are indicators of desirability and acceptability
in relation to targets established. The targets are expressed in terms of
average or normal expectation or as an ideal expectation. To ensure
common understanding in the performance standards and to forestall
confusion in the assessment of actual performance standards for the
ratings of Outstanding, Very Satisfactory and Satisfactory shall be
established in each performance factor at the time of target setting.
3. Performance Evaluation and Appraisal
Every six (6) months, an evaluation of performance will be conducted
and the accomplishments will be appraised by the Management
Committee and reviewed by the NP Board and , at the national
government, the Government Corporations Monitoring and
Coordinating Council. In assessing achievement level of performance
targets, the actual performance shall be compared against standard set.
4. Performance Incentive Bonus
The actual performance levels on the corporate and group targets shall
determine the actual amount of bonus to be granted.
The overall corporate performance for the period January-November 1996
reached a SATISFACTORY level. Based on this performance and consistent with
the pertinent orders from the national government (24 March 1994 Memorandum
Order No. 198 of Malacafiang), the NP Board approved the grant of two (2)
month performance bonus to all qualified NPC officials and employees.
It is worthy to take note that this PrEP is to a great extent assures the
corporation from its employees a continuous effort to strive for good performance
due to the incentive bonus component of the program. From the utility operations,
point of view this effort for good performance is manifested by maintaining the
reliability and efficiency of NPC generating units.
5



Appendix B                                - 46 -
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The most important lesson to be learned from this project is that in case of
conflict the specific provision of the loan agreement prevails. To illustrate. It has
been noted that a contract for the supply of transmission line insulator assembly
was denied funding under the loan by the Bank due to conflict in the procurement
procedure followed by NPC against Bank's guidelines on procurement process.
The transmission line projects under the loan were completed generally on
schedule. This happened because there was a common appreciation of the
situation that there was power crisis besetting the country. That situation has
brought together all concerned NPC functional groups to a very coordinated effort
that resulted to the completion of critical transmission line projects generally on
schedule. A well defined goal/objective combined with cooperation and proper
coordination are key factors in the project implementation.
6



- 47 -                           Appendix C
.i~'  A     l  REPUBLIKA NG PILIPINA
.g *    Pambansang Korporasyon Sa Elektrisidad
(NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION)
WB-HQ/OPD-PMO/98- &-
March 10( 1998
MR. MOHAMMAD FARHANDI
ActLig Chief. Infrastructure Operations Divisions
The World Bank
1818 H. Street. N. W.
Washington D. C.. 20433. USA
Fax No. (202) 477-2743
Attention:    Mr. Calum Gunn
SubJect:     Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Power Transmission Rehabilitation Proiect- IBRD 3626
Dear Mr. Farhandi:
This refers to the Bank's  Draft Report" on the subject matter. It is informed that the
Engineering Group has no other comments on the technical or engineering aspect of the report
considering that what is written in the ICR was the result of round table dialogue and discussions
wvith Enginieering concerned groups during the November. 1997 ICR Mission of the Bank.
This is to confirn also my request to include in your final report that NPC has also
embarked on other flagship programs such as Reliability Central Maintenance (RCM). Total
Qualitv Management (TQM). and the like intended to achieve continues perfonnance improvement.
Attached for *'our reference is the March 5. 1998 letter of Ms. M. M. Pajarillo. Vice
President. Finance & OIC to Mr. M. Farhandi. containing NPC's comments on the aide memoire
released on Februarv 1998 by the Energy Sector Mission of the Bank. Please take note that some
of the comments are applicable to the subject ICR.
Verv truly vours.
MED RDO T.dtEZ
Officer-In -Charge
IBRD 3626. PTRP
Office Address:                                  Cable Address                     Tel. Nos.
Cor. Quezon Avenue & Agham Road                  NAPOCOR PM                        92-13-541 571
Diliman, Quezon City                             Telex: 40120                           551580
P.O. Box 10183                                                                          561



oc~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I R                                                                                       cnX8oSg  T     
2           0C
k7~                                                                                                                                               0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
O t S~~~~~~~~~~~ n                               -;b  - IC
0 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0                      0-  
Os                         X                                                                                                                      O s
eo   X  aS ;  ;Sg,Ub;SgaFZ S p -E lz 1.1  E



