Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10996-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
POWER TRANSMISSION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:10996-PH          Type:  (SAR)
Title:   POWER TRANSMISSION AND REHABIL
Author: FERNANDEZ, C
Ext.:80474 Room:D8043 Dept.:EAlIE
June 3, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CIRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 31, 1993)
Currency Unit     =          Pesos (Pi)
P I              =           US$0.038
US$1              =          i26.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
b/d      =    Barrels per day (1 barrel = 159 liters)
BTU      =    British Thermal Unit (0.253 kilo calories)
GWh      =    Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kwh)
kg       =    Kilogram (2.205 pounds)
knm            Kilometer (0.62 miles)
kw       =    Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
kWh      =    Kilowatt-hour(860 kilo-calories)
kV             Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA      =    Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MMBOE -    Million Barrels Oil Equivalent=0.144 MMTOE Million Tons
Oil Equivalent
MVA      =    Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kVA)
MW       =    Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
TOE      =    Tons of oil equivalent
tcf      =    Trillion cubic feet
Ton      =    Metric Ton (1,000 kilograms)
TWh      =    Tera watt hour (109 watt-hours)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
BOT        Buiid-Operate-Transfer
BTO        Build-Transfer-and-Operate
COA        Commission on Audit
DENR       Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOF        Department of Finance
DOE        Department of Energy
ECC        Environmental Compliance Certificate
--A        Environmental Impact Assessment
EMB        Environmemtal Management Board
ERB        Energy Regulatory Board
EOIS       Efficiency and Operational Improvement Study
ESP        Energy Sector Plan
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GCMCC    Government Corporations Monitoring and Coordinating Committee
GOP        Government of Philippines
IMF        International Monetary Fund
NEA        National Electrification Administration
NEDA       National Economic and Development Authority
OEA        Office of Energy Affairs
OPSF       Oil Price Stabilization Fund
NPC        National Power Corporation
PDP        Power Development Plan
PNOC       Philippine National Oil Company
RECs       Rural Electrification Cooperatives
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower: National Power Corporation (NPC)
Guarantor; Republic of Philippines
Amount:   US$110 million equivalent.
20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project Oblectives and
Description: The main objectives of the proposed project are to alleviate power shortages in Luzon,
through (a) a transmission system expansion and reinforcement program needed to bring
power to Manila from the "fast track" generation plants and (b) the rehabilitation of the
Bataan thermal generating plant. It will also improve the performance of the energy
sector through the approval by the Government, in consultation with the Bank, of an
Energy Sector Plan covering policies, institutions and implementing mechanisms. In
addition it will ensure the financial viability of NPC to undertake a massive and long-
overdue investment program and improve its institutional setup.
The proposed project will have the following major components: (a) expansion of the
transmission system in the Bataan/Batangas areas west of Metro Manila; (b) provision
of goods and materials (conductors, insulators and supports) to reinforce the transmission
system; (c).rehabilitation of the two units (Unit #1, 75 MW and Unit #2, 150 MW) of
the Bataan oil-fired thermal power plant; (d) consulting assistance to prepare a master
plan to develop the 500 kV extra high voltage (EHV) system and rehabilitate the Bataan
thermal plant; and (e) improvement of NPC's institutional systems.
Benefits
and Risks: The project would ensure a stable power supply for Luzon, avoiding substantial economic
losses estimated at $600-$800 million per year, while providing a base for improved
institutional and fnancial operations within the sector.
Although the Government is forcefully pursuing a large expansion of its power
generation from the private sector, its implementation could be delayed on financial
grounds. This risk is minimized by the number of projects and the diversity of the
contractors. Should extensive delays occur the power supply situadon would continue to
remain critical and the consequent curtailment of demand would have an adverse impact
on the economy. The risk of delays in the implementation of the project's transmission
program has been minimized by an advanced and effective procurement program being
monitored monthly by the Bank. There is also a risk that tariffs would not be increased
in the future. However, this risk is reduced because of the recent decisions of the Energy
Regulatory Board approving the principles for NPC tariffs and because of the automatic
tariff adjustments to be implemented. Moreover, the new administration in the
Philippines has targeted energy problems as its top priority.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Local Foreign   Total
---- (US$ million) - - - -
Transmission Expansion
and Reinforcement                           7.3    84.7   92.0
Bataan Power Plant Rehabilitation            3.5    22.5   26.0
Technical Assistance                         0.3     1.4    1.7
Taxes and Duties                             5.4     0.0    5.4
Base Cost (June 1992)                   16.5   108.6  125.1
Physical contingencies                       1.1    10.8   11.9
Price contingencies                          1.1     6.7    7.8
Total Project Cost /                    18.7   126.1  144.8
Interest during construction                 0.0    15.0   15.0
Total Financin0 Reawred                 18.7   141.1  159.8
Financine Plan:
World Bank                                   -     110.0  110.0
National Power Corporation                  18.7    30.6   49.3
Japanese Grant                                       0.5    0.5
TOTAL                                  18.7   141.1  159.8
a/  Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$5.7 million.
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank Fiscal Year             FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96 FY9,7
------ (US$ million) ------
Annual                         0.0  21.6  33.6  43.2  11.6
Cumulative                     0.0  21.6  55.2  98.4 110.0
Economic Rate of Return:       11%
Map:  IBRD No. 20239



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ xi
PHILIPPINES
Power TransmhIsion and Rehabilitation Project
Table of Contents
Paee No.
Loan and Project Summary .............................................. i
I.     The Energy Sector
Overview ......................1
Resource Endowment ..................... 1
Sector Institutions   .....................  1
Sector Issues and Reforms ......................................... 2
Previous Bank Projects.                                                               7
Rationale for Bank Participation.                                                     7
H. The Power Sub-Sector.                                                                     8
The Power Market.                                                                     8
The Power Crisis.                                                                     9
NPC's Power Development Program .10
Generation Program .10
System Losses .12
Transmission System .12
m. The Borrower .13
Organization and Management .13
NPC's Reform Program .                                                               13
Training .14
Financial Policies .15
Financial Management .15
IV.   The Project ......................................... 16
Background ........... 16
Project Objectives ............................... ............  16
Project Description ............ 16
Cost Estimates ............ 18
Financing Plan ............ 18
Project Implementation ..................................... 18
Monitoring and Supervision ............ 19
Procurement ............ 20
Disbursements ............ 21
Environment ............ 21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Claudio Fernandez
(Principal Financial Analyst) and Darayes Mehta (Principal Power Engineer) who visited the Philippines
in July 1992. The report was edited by Ms. Barbara Koeppel. Peer reviewers were Messrs. Rafael
Moscote, Albert B. Gulstone and Jamil Sopher. The project was cleared by Mr. Callisto E. Madavo,
Director EAI and Mr. Vineet Nayyar, Chief, EAIIE.



- iv -
V     Finances                                       ........................  23
Past anc Current Financial Performance . ........................... 23
Capital Expenditure Program   ........................... 25
Overall Financing Plan  ........................... 25
Foreign Exchange Exposure  ........................... 27
Future Finances .       ...........................  27
Financial Sensitivity Analysis ...................................... 29
Monitoring and Evaluation .29
VI. Project Justirication .30
Economic Analysis .30
Risks .30
VII. Agreements Reached and Recommendation .31
ANNEXES
Annex 1 Energy Sector Plan Summary .33
Annex 2 Energy Production and Consumption .39
Annex 3 NPC's Demand (Sales, Generation, Peak Demand and Capacity) .41
Annex 4 NPC's Power Development Program .49
Annex 5 Transmission Facilities .51
Annex 6 Efficiency and Operational Improvement Study .53
Annex 7 NPC's Organization Chart .58
Annex 8 Project Cost .59
Annex 9 Bataan Plant Rehabilitation .62
Annex 10 Disbursement Schedule .65
Annex 11 Total Capital Expenditures .66
Annex 12 NPC's Financial Projections .69
Annex 13 Monitoring Indicators .72
Annex 14 Assumptions for Financial Projections .73
Annex 15 Economic Analysis .77
Annex 16 Tariff Structure .78
Annex 17 Transmission Master Plan - Terms of Reference .81
Annex 18 Documenits in Project File .84
MAP:    IBRD No. 20239



I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Overview                                          Resource Endowment
1.3        Unlike  its  ASEAN  neighbors,  the
1.1        Over the last decade, commercial energy    Philippines is not well endowed with indigenous energy
consumption in the Philippines increased at an average   resources. New resources being developed (in addition
rate of 2.3%  p.a. from 83.4 million barrels of oil  to coal and hydropower) are geothermal energy and oil
equivalent (MMBOE) in 1980 to 104.5 MMBOE in 1990    which came into production in 1978 and 1979
(Annex 2, Tables I and 2). This was due to substantial   respectively. Geothermal reserves are not yet fully
increases in industrialization, the reduced share of   evaluated, but could exceed 6,000 MW: 900 MW are
agriculture on GDP and an overall growth in the   already produced and about 800 MW more are expected
economy of about 1.6% p.a. Between 1986-91, energy   from projects under preparation or construction. Proven
and GDP growth accelerated to 6.8%  and 4% p.a.   oil reserves amount to only 4 million tons and they have
respectively. Most of the energy consumed (75%) was   been declining since 1983. A recent discovery of natural
and is derived from oil, but local oil production is   gas offshore of Par:.- an may provide up to 8 trillion
minimal (1.3%  of the total) and this causes large   cubic feet (tcf); however, substantial exploration is
economic shocks when international oil prices increase   needed to confirm the size of the deposit and its
dramatically: For example, in 1991, due to the Gulf   economic viability. The total potential coal resource is
War, the cost of imported fuel increased by about 60%    estimated at about 1,500 million tons (MMT), but most
and the country registered a negative 1 % GDP growth.   of it is low grade and expensive to mine.  Hydro
Annex 2 shows the Philippines' energy balance between   resources are quite substantial, with a theoretical power
1980-2000. In 1991, the industrial sector accounted for   potential in excess of 10,000 MW, but the better sites
51 % of total energy demand, followed by transportation,   are too distant from roads and transmission lines, and
with 32%. About 35% of total energy produced was   their development has become  uncertain  given
electricity (Annex 2, Table 1) and this figure is expected   environmental concerns and guerilla activities in remote
to rise to 38% by 2000. However, electricity generation   areas. As a result, no single hydro project has been
depends heavily on oil (55%), which entails considerable   completed (other than one in Mindanao) during the last
fmancial risk. Thus a move away from oil and further   12 years. About 40 run-of-river, small hydro projects
development of indigenous energy are the only   are being prepared under the Energy Sector Project
significant prospects for limiting the rapid growth of oil  (Loan 3163-PH) but those that are feasible would not
imports.                                          add more than 300 MW.  Consequently, the most
promising indigenous resource is geothermal energy.
1.2        It is expected that recovery of the
Philippine economy will increase GDP growth from
3.5% p.a. between 1990-95 to 5.6% p.a. between 1995-   Sector Institutions
2000. Thus, during the decade, energy consumption is
expected to rise by 6.4% p.a., and it is thought that   1.4  The Energy Coordination Council (chaired
indigenous sources will provide an increasing share   by the President's Executive Secretary) and the Office of
(from 9% to 15% for geothermal and from 5.5% to   Energy Affairs (OEA -which reported to the Office of
7.9%  for coal). Nevertheless, 70%  of the energy   the President) were responsible for coordinating the
consumed will still be imported by 2000 (Annex 2,   energy  sector from  1987-92. These institutional
Table 2).                                         arrangements did not succeed in this task nor in
providing adequate sector investments and supervision.
The recent establishment of the Department of Energy
(DOE), under Republic Act 7638 of December 9, 1992,
is a major step to improve conditions; it has been
operating since February 1993, replacing the Energy



-2 -
Coordinating Council and OEA. DOE has been given a    Administration (NEBA), responsible for financing and
comprehensive mandate for policy formulation, planning    providing related technical support to the RECs. To
and supervision in the sector. Also, it will be involved    strengthen the Government's supervisory role during the
at the Cabinet level in decisions to solve the present   current power crisis (para. 2.6), die DOE Secretary will
energy crisis and is expected to strengthen private sector   be the chairman of NPC, PNOC and NEA. Other
participation in power supply (para. 2.11 and 2.14).  institutions critical to the sector are: (a) the Department
of Finance (DOF), which approves local or foreign
1.5        The DOE  law  establishes policies to   borrowing and recommends budgetary contributions; (b)
promote  environmentally  sound  development and   the National Economic and Development Authority
conservation of resources, as well as indigenous energy,   (NEDA), which approves the country's planning
privatization and increased private sector participation in   (including  large  energy  projects)  and  (c)  the
all energy activities. It also aims to reduce dependence    Environmental Management Bureau (EMB), under the
on oil-fired plants. The DOE secretary is an ex-officio    Department of the Environment and Natural Resources
member of the National Economic and Development   (DENR), which has the authority to approve the
Authority (NEDA), and is supported by four bureaus: (a)   environmental impact assessment (EIA) and provide the
the  Energy  Utilization  Management Bureau, for   environmental compliance certificate (ECC) required for
monitoring and assisting with demand management,   the construction and operation of power projects.
conservation, the efficient use of energy resources, and
the development of nonconventional energy systems; (b)    1.7   Power  Develonment  Stratewv.  The
the Energy Resources Bureau, for formulating policies    Philippine economy depends greatly on petroleum
and helping develop energy resources; (c) the Energy   imports and requires a substantial increase in its power
Industry Administration Bureau, for creating regulatory,   capacity. Concerned with the need to conserve petroleum
financial and fiscal policies related to energy supply   and use energy optimally, the Government strategy caUs
entities and for approving non-price regulatory matters   for: (a) an environmentaly sound and sustainable power
and (d) the Energy Planning and Monitoring Bureau, for   development plan; (b) large private sector participation
developing and monitoring energy plans and demand   in energy projects; (c) improvements in sector efficiency;
forecasts and incorporating national environmental goals   (d) reduced dependency on oil-fired plants; (e) increased
into energy programs.  A five-member Council of   use of geothermal resources and (f) improved demand
Advisers on Energy Affairs from the private sector was    management and conservation. This strategy is supported
also established to advise the President on energy    by the Bank and sector reforms (para. 1.8-1.27) and is
programs and private sector initiatives.           consistent with Bank policies to promote satisfactory
sector improvements, adequate regulatory systems (para.
1.6         PracticaDly aUl 140 companies and utilities    1.13) and the provision of services and private sector
in the energy sector are private (investor or member-   participation (para. 1.14).
owned). Power distribution, in particular, is managed
almost completely by investor-owned entities which    Sector Issues and Reforms
include the following: (a) MERALCO (Manila
Electricity Company), a private utility that distributes    1.8  Since 1991 the Philippines has been
about 60% of the total electricity to Metro Manila; (b)   experiencing a very serious power crisis which poses a
12 private or municipal utilities that retail electricity in   grave threat to its economic development and stability.
different cities and (c) about 120 member-owned rural   The crisis results in substantial outages -6 to 10 hours
electrification cooperatives (RECs), which distribute and    per day in Luzon and Mindanao and drastic curtailments
manage retail power sales in rural areas. There are,   in supply. This hurt industrial production and the
however, three very large government corporations in   development of new industrial and commercial activities.
the sector: (a) the National Power Corporation (NPC),   Thus, unemployment is rising and economic losses are
which sells power in bulk to power utilities and is    mounting, estimated at US$600-$800 million per year by
responsible for power generation and transmission; (b)   the Bank or about 1.5% of GDP (using 50.'kWh as the
the  Philippines National Oil Company  (PNOC),   cost of unserved energy) and at US$1-1.3 billion by the
responsible for developing indigenous hydrocarbon and    business community. Necessities are jeopardized-not
geothermal resources and refining and selling petroleum    only because of a lack of electricity for reading, cooking
products  and  (c)  the  National  Electrification    or entertainment--but because other key services that



- 3-
depend on electricity (such as traffic management,   implementation by end of 1993 are as follows: (a) a total
pumped water and sewerage), are also disrupted. The   fuel cost adjustment mechanism  to compensate for
power crisis resulted from  minimum investment in   variations in fuel prices and the cost of purchased
previous years (practically no addidonal power capacity   energy, which would make future tariff adjustments
was added between '986-92), due to delays for several   largely automatic (para. 5.14); (b) a restructured tariff
years in obtaining environmental approvals for power   that introduces demand charges to reduce peak demand
plants, slow procurement and the mothballing of the    and (c) exchange rate adjustments (paras. 5.14).
nuclear plant. Under the "Electric Power Crisis Act of
1993," the President has been given special powers to    1.12  NPC   has  also  introduced   major
solve the energy crisis including facilitating tariff   insdtutional and  operational improvements. These
increases, speeding-up project approvals and improving   include: (a) streamlining its structure by halving the
technical salaries in the sector.                   number of top managers, which eliminated 17 vice
presidents and about 20 department managers and
1.9        Inadequate policies prevented Bank lending    reduced the staff from 16,056 to 14,256 between 1991-
to the Philippines for several years until 1988-89, when    92. Further reforms and  streamlining  of NPC's
the Bacon Manito Project (Loan 2969-PH) and the    management and organization are being implemented by
Energy Sector Project (Loan 3163-PH) initiated reforms    DOE; (b) rationalizing functions and providing for
to improve sector coordination and planning, improve    greater decentralization (particularly for maintenance,
environmental monitoring, enhance  the  technical   watershed management and accounting); (c) introducing
capabilities of sector institutions and facilitate private   standardized  bidding  specifications, establishing  a
power development. Despite these reforms, a serious    contracts committee and delegating responsibilities for
power and financial crisis and prolonged outages in all   procurement to the regional managers; (d) establishing
regions highlighted the need for further reforms and    programs and targets to improve combustion efficiency;
improvements. Therefore, since 1991, the Bank has been   (e) improving project implementation and (f) pursuing
discussing these issues and a paper recommending sector    better internal audits and rotating staff who exercise
improvements'/ was submitted to the new Government   critical financial functions. In addition, an Efficiency
in July 1992.                                       and Operadonal Improvement Study (EOIS) has been
contracted by the Bank to identify and implement further
1.10       Tehe Energv Sector Plan. Sector reform    institutional improvements  (para. 3.7). Improved
and improvements are the highest priority of the new    supervision and management by objectives are also being
administration. Prior to Board presentation!, the   implemented  by  the  Government  Corporatons
Government approved an Energy Sector Plan (ESP) to    Monitoring and Coordinating Committee (GCMCC),
chart the course of actions it will take to unprove sector   which is directed by a board that includes key cabinet
operations. The ESP lays out policies and defnes    members. It sets targets, performance indicators and
improvements in all areas of concern as well as their   incentives to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
completion schedule; these, along with the status of   Government corporations. At the end of the year, the
implementation, are shown in Annex 1. Implementing    GCMCC judges compliance with agreed targets and the
the ESP is cridcal to ensure adequate power supply and    staff within the best-ranked Government corporations are
donor support for the large outlays required. Agreement   given bonuses of up to 10% of their salaries.
was reached at negotiations that the Govermnent. NPC
and  the  Bank  would  exchanae  views  on  the    1.13         Regulatory Framework. Under the DOE
implementation of the ESP.                         law, an adequate framework has been established for
regulating the sector. This includes DOE setting policies,
1.11       Some key actions of the ESP have already    deciding on non-price regulations, implementing them
been implemented, particularly the establishment of the    and supervising Government corporations in the sector.
Department of Energy. Also, ESP's actions to improve   In addition, the regulatory system has been strengthened,
NPC's finances include a tariff increase to yield an 8%    and the Energy Regulatory Board (ERB) is now
rate of return on revalued assets in 1993 (para. 5.14) and   responsible for approving tariffs (by public hearings) and
other tariff actions already approved by NPC's Board.   regulatng energy prices under clear rate-of-return
These actions, which are being reviewing by the Energy    criteria. ERB has just decided on the validity of two
Regulatory  Board  (ERB)  and  scheduled  for   previous tariff increases (February 1991 and January



4-
1992) which had been previously enjoined and referred    costs for unused capacity. The additional power
by the Supreme Court to ERB for a decision. ERB    generation already contracted for with the private sector
authorized NPC to recover these with prospective effect,   amounts to more than 60% of the present generating
setting jurisprudence and criteria for future tariffs   capacity. Moreover, NPC's Board has approved a policy
regarding the rate base, the rate of return level, the   to offer as BOT contracts practically aU the new power
assets revaluation and the allowed expenses in the rate of   generation plants (except multipurpose hydro plants), and
return. Further, the ERB approved that the shortfall in   bids for large coal plants are underway. Given the
revenues of previous years will be collected in future   limited commercial financing available to the Philippines
bills. To perform effectively, ERB needs to increase the   it would be desirable to provide some official financing
number of qualified staff, receive support from advisors   for the private sector, but there are three important
and irain its staff on tariff analysis and regulatory   constraints First, the Foreign Borrowing Act prevents
systems. Grant financing for regulatory advisers is also   the Government from guaranteeing official loans that
being  sought.  Although  the  ERB  is  placed    benefit a  private  sector investment in  priority
administratively within DOE, it is a quasi-judicial,   infrastructure. Second, the generation  investments
autonomous body that has adequately managed oil prices   needed are quite large (US$1.1 billion per year). Third,
(maintaining a surplus in the Oil Price Stabilization Fund   limits exist on the amount that can be onlent by
(OPSF)) and approved adequate tariffs for private power   Government  banks,  which  serve  as  financial
utilities.                                          intermediaries. Thus, mechanisms must be created to
allow some official financing to facilitate private
1.14        Private  Sector  Partic-iation.  The    projects. To this end, the Bank is supporting studies to
Philippines is one of the developing countries with large    establish an Infrastructure Development Fund which
private sector participation in the energy sector. With the    could help finance or guarantee priority infrastructure
exception of a handful of municipal utilities, all power   investments by the private sector.
distribution and retailing is done by private utilities or
rural electrification cooperatives. Energy exploration is   1.16  A  USAID-funded  study  (by  Price
private and oil refining and distribution are carried out   Waterhouse) identified several privatization options for
by two private companies (CALTEX and Philippines    NPC. However, additional studies are required to
Shell Petroleum Corporation) in addition to Petron (the    evaluate the impact of these alternatives, as wen as the
oil subsidiary of PNOC) which will be privatized in   implementation procedures, since there are important
1994. The privadzation of Petron would include the sale   constitutional, fmancial and borrowing constraints that
of one third of its shares to a foreign oil company,   must be resolved to ensure a successful privatizadon and
another third would be sold to PNOC's employees and   that the large investments needed would be implemented
the public and the Government expects would retain   thereafter. Thus, the present strategy of steadily
about 35% of the shares. This privatization is supported   increasing the private sector role in power generation
by the Bank and is expected to repeat the successful   and operational management is appropriate. Although
experience in the privatization of 70 other Government   regional fractionalizing  of NPC  seems politically
corporations.                                       expedient, a better alternative would be that NPC
continues to be responsible for national transmission,
1.15       With 15 contracts signed and several others   some residual power generation and the overaU dispatch
under negotiation with the private sector for the    of power, with power generation becoming fully
construction, financing and operation of power plants   competitive  under  improved  BOT/BTO   bidding
using Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) or Build,   procedures. In accord with the ESP, a decision on NPC
Transfer and Operate (BTO)3L systems, the Philippines    privatization will be taker. .qy end of 1993. In the
is a pioneer in private sector participation in power   interim, ways are needed to il prove policies, reduce the
generation. These contracts involves a total capacity of   uncertainties and risks faced by the private sector and
about 2,600 MW (Annex 4, Table 2). In the future, the    encourage even wider private participation. Aeement
proliferation of BOT  contracts under take-or-pay    was reached at neotiations that no later than December
conditions may result in complex dispatch problems and    31. 1993 NPC would imnlement improved rules and
difficulties in allocating he reserve and spinning costs of   procedures to facilitate private sector Darticiation in
capacity. DOE is establishing a planning system to avoid   ener   geeneration. including standardized  bidding
either low supply and outages or excessive supply and    documents sadisfactorv to the Bank.



-5-
1.17       Power  Pricing  and  Finacgial    1.19              Distribulion Tariffs. Retail power tariffs
Improvements.   Although the NPC Board had the   in the Manila area, which are indexed with NPC tariffs
power to approve tariffs, the increase in March 1991    and the exchange rate, have provided MERALCO a rate
was suspended by the Supreme Court -which led to   of return higher than 8%. The power tariff subsidize
NPC's financial crisis (para. 5.4). In addition, the    consumption below 50 kWh/month through relatively
January 1992 increase, although implemenied, was also    higher rates for large industrial and commercial users.
submitted for an ERB judgement. However, ERB has    Under the Rural Electrification Revitalization project,
now determined that both tariff increases were justifled    substantial tariff increases have been approved for RECs,
and it furthe. approved an additional tariff incrcase of   many in the order of 40%-50%. These tariffs are
PO.O57/kWh from January 1992 onward (which would   generally uniform  for all consumers, regardless of
have provided a 10% rate of reiurn to NPC, higher than    voltage level, resulting in a cross subsidization to low
the 8% covenanted by the Bank); these tariff increases    voltage consumers. NEA is introducing tew guidelines
would be recovered for one year, beginning April 1993.   to improve the structure and level of REC tariffs.
In addition, ERB clearly defined the asset base and the
expenses allowed for the rate of return (the major    1.20     0  Pricing. The Government has targeted
contention in the previous two tariff increases), which    a full deregulation of oil prices for 1996 to improve
will avoid future legal challenges on these matters. The    competidon, upgrade oil production and refinery
increases  would  result  in  additional  revenues   facilities and depoliticize the adjustment of oil prices.
(P0.1 8/kWh from  April 1993 and an additional   The deregulation will require changes in the legal and
P0.03/kWh from July 1993), increasing NPC's net   regulatory  frameworks, the establishment of new
income from a negative P2.9 billion in 1991 to P 1.6   financing mechanisms for crude oil purchases, and the
billion in 1992 and P6 billion in 1993. Now, under   elimination of the "baggage of the past" (including legal
DOE law, all energy prices will be approved by the   cases pending at the Supreme Court). In order to achieve
ERB. Moreover, to avoid delays in adjusting tariffs for   a successful deregulation, steps are included in the ESP,
costs that are beyond NPC control and to depoliticize   including energy pricing, industry cost studies and the
such increases, an automatic monthly total fuel cost   measures already taken by ERB to ensure adequate rates
adjustment was approved by the NPC Board and its   of return to the oil companies. In the meantime, it was
implementation is pending ERB approval. This will   important to maintain appropriate prices for oil products.
index NPC tariffs with fuel prices and other costs   This was achieved during the last two years, when prices
representing  about  82%   of  NPC's  operational   were above intemational levels and resulted in a
expenditures (for oil, coal, steam and purchased energy).   substantial OPSF surplus. To ensure the continuation of
NPC's Board also has approved and the ESP has   these policies, the Government is supporting legislation
endorsed a similar indexation to compensate for the   requiring automatic adjustments of oil prices when the
increase in loan principal resulting from exchange rate    OPSF fund reaches minimum or maximum liquidity
variations; this will be implemented when the exchange   levels; also, ERB is considering indexing wholesale oil
rate surpasses the base exchange rate of P28/dollar used    prices with Singapore price indexes for petroleum
for NPC's budget in 1993 (para. 5.14).             products (expressed in pesos eqtuivalent). This would
allow automatic monthly adjustments in oil prices.
1.18       NPC's Board has also approved a tariff
restructuring to implement demand charges in line with    1.21  Environmental Management.    The
its long-run marginal cost and achieve a better price for   Government's  policy  is  to  achieve  sustainable
demand and energy charges, while providing a lifeline    development by enforcing environmental guidelines and
rate for utilities that serve low-income consumers.   requiring that a satisfactory environmental impact
Establishing charges for maximum demand is supported    assessment (EIA) be prepared for power projects.
by the ESP and would be implemented under the project   However, many power projects were halted or suffered
(para. 5.14). Fu.-ther improvements would require the   inordinate delays (three years) during the time that
implementation of time of day rates for large consumers   environmental decisions  or approvals  from  the
(once normal power supply is restored) and the    Department of Environment and Natural Resources
equalization of rates (at the same voltage levels) among    (DENR) were being secured.  This occurred due to
industries and utilities.                          institutional  deficiencies,  stringent, environmental
guidelines and the convoluted process to obtain the



- 6-
environmental approval and acceptance from  the    efficiency standards for all power intensive appliances
communities involved. Agreement has now been reached    are being implemented and test results will be used to
to separate the technical and enviro;.  ntal analyses and   label appliances  by  mid-1994; (e) an  ongoing
approval (by DENR) from the stial and political   Technology Transfer Energy Management program
approval which will be handled by the Regional   would continue to finance energy conservation programs,
Development Councils and NEDA. The technical   document energy savings and disseminate relatea
capabil4qy and equipment of the EMB are being upgraded   information; (f) studies are being completed by several
under the Energy Sector Project (Loan 3165-PH)   donors and the Bank on further energy conservation and
through  training  and  the acquisition  of modern   demand management and (g) demand charges will be
laboratory and monitoring equipment. DENR will also   introduced to MERALCO and all other utilities by
need to employ more environmental specialists and    December 1993 (para. 5.14).
review its stringent environmental guidelines. The Bank
has completed a sector study ("Toward Improved    1.24         OneratMonad Mantance. The present
Management of Environmental Impacts," May 10, 1993)   energy crisis (para. 2.6) is in part due to lack of
proposing   recommendations  to  improve  the   adequate maintenance, insufficient spare parts and lack
environmental analysis and find a balance between the    of qualified technical staff.  The problem has been
power supply requirements and the resistance of most   exacerbated by power shortages which have forced NPC
communities to having power plants in their backyards.   power plants to operate for long periods without
Since a key concern for power projects is their social   scheduled  maintenance.    Maintenance  practices,
acceptability, the President has given instructions to   especially with regard to procuring essential spare parts
NEDA, DOE, DENR and NPC to identify sites for   when they are needed, must be improved. Thus,
future  power  plants  whicb  would  be    .re    management contracts with the private sector have been
environmentally and socially acceptable.           signed for several plants (Ambuklao, Naga and ten
power generating barges).
1.22       Enerm   Conservation  and  Demand
Management. The Philippines is already implementing    1.25    Ogerational  Efficiency.  NPC's
programs  for energy  conservation  and  demand   transmission losses, net of station use, are just 3.5%,
management. These include: (a) using DOE audits of   which is satisfactory. However, to improve operational
energy-intensive industries to demonstrate savings to   efficiency in the power sector old NPC plants would be
similar companies (for example, large commercial and   rehabilitated (to increase the reliability of power
industrial establishments already use highly efficient   generation). Because most t'ermal plants are very old
fluorescent lights); (b) using industrial loans to purchase   (their average age is 23 years), some may have to be
more efficient motors; (c) carrying out energy audits (by   retired within the next 5-10 years. Also management
private companies), fnanced by part of the cost savings   contracts are being considered for another two large
and (d) adopting strict conservation measures at public   plants in 1993. Further, MERALCO and the RECs will
offices. ESMAP is currently studying further measures   be requirea to reduce excessive distribution losses by
to be implemented, but given the Philippines's very low    upgrading the system's capacity and enforcing stricter
per-capita power demand and the limited use of   controls on metering and biUling. Between 1989-92,
electiicity, the power demand reductions are expected to    MERALCO reduced electricity distribution losses from
be moderate.                                       21% to 14% and the RECs from 26% to 22%. These
losses should be graduaUy reduced to about 10%. Ilegal
1.23       The key for conservation is pricing power   connections are partly responsible for such losses, since
appropriately. Measures to achieve this have already   there  are  practically  no  penalties  fom  making
been implemented and prices are now slightly higher   unauthorized connections or tampering with meters. To
than  marginal cost. Future  actions on  demar,   correct the problem. The ESP is supporting crucial anti-
management include: (a) DOE is mandated to create   pilferage legislation which has already been introduced
programs and incentives to conserve energy and its   in Congress.
Energy Utilization Bureau will establish policies for
efficient energy use, monitor energy consumption and    1.26   Proiect Implementation.  The process
provide  training  and  promotion  in  improved    whereby NPC approves contracts has been slow. To
technologies; (b) power utilities' losses will be reduced;   improve  and  accelerate  procurement,  NPC  has
(c) a program is being developed to replace all public   standardized bidding documents and specifications,
lighting with efficient fluorescent lights and finance   appointed project managers for each project md
similar lights for residential consumers; (d) energy   implemented  a  computerized  monitoring  system



7
(Artemis)  for all investments.   Implementadon    project (Bacon Manito-Loan 2969). In 1988-89, two
improvements  should  result from  delegating  the    other projects were approved: One was for MERALCO's
construction of new generation plants to the private   power distrK-tion in Metro Manila and another was for
sector under BOT/BTO contracts. To expedite future   the Energy Sector (Loans 3163-PH, 3164-PH and 3165-
projects, NEDA will approve by mid-1993 the total    PH). These projects financed sector investments and
power development program for the next few years and    supported  improved  sectoral  policies  regarding
DOE will establish maximum approval periodG from    investment strategy, financing and coordination. They
other agencies.                                      are generally being implemented satisfactorily, but the
completion of the Bacon Manito project would be
1.27        Staff S.es.  Salary and benefits for   delayed about one and a half years, and NPC recently
NPC  staff, as wtf as for employees in other    had problems achieving the covenanted rate of return.
Government  corporations,  have  been  reduced    These problems have been factored into the design of the
substantially since 1991, due to a law that standardized    proposed project.
salaries for all Government workers. As a result, many
key technical and managerial staff have left (and new    Rationale for Bank Participation
ones will need extensive training programs), maintenance
has been affected and hiring of qualified staff has    1.29       The Government requires strong support
become difficult. Under the Power Crisis Act, the    from the Bank to solve the country's power supply crisis
President was given powers to raise NPC's salaries   in the near term, and to establish sound sectoral policies
based on comparisons with the private sector and a    that would enable the large investments needed in the
consultancy study will prowide recommendations in    medium to long term. Ensuring adequate power supply
August 1993.                                        is the most critical problem in the country's economic
development and is a priority for the Bank's lending
Previous Bank Projects                              strategy for the Philippines. The proposed project would
help alleviate a grave power supply situation, with the
1.28        From  1957-75, the Bank financed three    private sector providing the additional generating
hydro projects, two thermal plants, one transmission    capacity, and NPC  expanding and reinforcing its
project and a rural electrification scheme. Three loans   transmission system. Bank intervention in the power
were also approved for coal, oil and geothei mal   sector has been critical in defining improved policies and
exploration. Project Performance Audit Reports were   actions through the formulation of an Energy Sector Plan
prepared for two projects with NPC (the fourth and    and in strengthening NPC's finances, improving its
seventh projects, PPAR No. 0980 and PPAR No. 8574).   efficiency, promoting actions to enhance private sector
The major problems identified in the PPARs were    generation of power and establishing the DOE. Bank
implementation delays and cost overruns due to project   support is also critical to balance the country's need for
design changes, cumbersome contract award procedures,   energy development with sound environmental practices.
and  weak  project  management.  Because  of a    These are crucial elements in the process of solving the
disagreement on policies, the Bank discontinued lending    ongoing power crisis in the Philippines and preparing the
until 1988 when it approved a geothermal generation  sector for a robust implementation of its energy
program.
Endnotes:
1/  'Energy Sector Issues and Actions."
2/4  The ESP was approved by the Cabinet and the President on November 17, 1993. A revised implementation
schedule was approved by the Cabinet on January 12, 1993.
2.4  In build-operate-transfer (BOT) projects, the private sector will build, finance, implement and operate (for 10-20
years) the project facilities and transfer them back to NPC after that period (BOT contracts can be extended). In
build-transfer-operate (BTO) projects, the private sector will build, finance and construct power plants. After
project compledon, the assets and liabilities will be transferred to NPC, but the contractor will operate the plant
for most of its useful life under a renewable management contract.



-8 -
II. The Power Sector
The Power Market                                    2.4        The appraisal projections correspond to
the Bank's estimated GDP growth of about 5.5% p.a.
2.1         Power generation in the Philippines is   between 1994-2000. These result in a demand growth
mainly the responsibility of NPC, but there is large and    of about 8% p.a. in Luzon, 7.8% in Visayas and 8.5%
increasing participation from the private sector. NPC    in Mindanao. However, the Government targets a
supplies power in bulk and at high voltages to   higher GDP growth (7.5% p.a. for 1994-98 and 8.4%
MERALCO  and other private utilities, the rural   between 1999-2005). Based on these projections, NPC
electrification cooperatives and some large industries.  prepared an alternative power demand, which, using a
demand elasticity of 1.3 for Luzon and 1.5 for Visayas
2.2         Demand for power grew at an annual rate   and Mindanao, forecasts a much higher demand for
of 7% during the 1970s, 4.1% between 1980-85, and    power than presented in this report: From 1993-98, it
6% between 1985-90. However, these average rates    would average 9.4%  p.a. in Luzon, 13.5%  in
mask uneven growth in demand, which closely follows    Mindanao and 10.6%  in Visayas. This does not
variations in GDP growth.  Power growth rates are   considerably change the requirements for power plants
well correlated to GDP growth but have been about   within the next four years, (in the short-term, it will
2%-3%  points higher; the difference is attributed to   result in higher sales and revenues by maximizing the
greater industrialization, higher living standards (which    use of existing capacity), but in the medium-term it
translate into the use of more appliances), and the    would require much larger investments. NPC's direct
increase in households connected to electricity. In fact,   capital expenditures would not change considerably,
power demand increased, although at a lower rate, even    since, other than multipurpose hydro plants, all new
during economic recessions: While GDP decreased by    power generating plants are expected to be built and
14% between 1983-85, electricity sales increased 0.3%    financed by the private sector (BOT/BTO projects).
(Annex 3, Table 1).  Most of the 1991 electricity    Given  the  country's  financial and  infrastructure
consumption of 23,599 GWh (76.8%) was in Luzon,   constraints and the impact of demand management
where Manila is located, while the two other large    programs (para. 1.22), the appraisal is based on a more
island-systems, Mindanao and Visayas, used 14.6% and    conservative  estimate. In  any  case, the  power
8.6% of the total power supply. Due to the distances    development program  will be updated annually in
involved and the cost of underwater cables, these   consultation with the Bank (para. 2.09) and decisions to
regional systems are expected to be interconnected only   initiate new plants will also be made annually, based on
after 1997; therefore, the demand and capacity are   updated forecast.
planned for each system independently.
2.5        To  reduce  power  demand,  the
2.3         NPC annually updates its demand forecast   Government  implemented  several programs  that
model based on statistical analyses of population,   involved: (a) implementing  demand charges; (b)
industrial and commercial growth, surveys of major   encouraging commercial and industrial consumers to
utilities and industries and the Government's estimate of   use energy-efficient lamps; (c) replacing inefficient
GDP growth.  (See Annex 3, Table 2 for the main   street lights; (d) requiring energy audits and energy
assumptions for power demand). The report assumes   reporting  requirements from  large industries; (e)
that once the current unserved demand is met, increases    publishing the efficiency performance of electric
in power sales will stabilize. Power outages (seven   appliances and (f) introducing conservation campaigns
hours a day in Luzon in April 1993) are expected to be   (particularly for lighting and air conditioning).  To
substantially reduced by mid-1994 with the completion   fiirther promote conservation, ESMAP is preparing
(in stages) and additional capacity from the new plants   recommendations on cost-effective ways to reduce
(particularly the "fast track" projects), adding 923 MW  energy demand.  However, the basic parameters for
to Luzon (9 plants), 273 MW to Mindanao (3 plants)   optimal electricity demand are already in place; these
and 40 MW  in Visayas (one plant)!'. Such a large   include appropriate pricing policies (the second highest
capacity (1236 MW) will substantially improve the   retail power tariffs in Asia after Japan), and adequate
system, which has had practically no increase in   charges for electricity (based on long-term marginal
capacity during the last five years.               cost). The impact of conservation would be limited in



-9-
the short term, because much of the population is low-         the wet season (Pantabagan, Magat,
income (per capita GDP was only $730 in 1990) and              Angat, Lanau, Kalayaan, etc.).  Power
the annual per capita consumption is only 375 kWh,             shortages were particularly serious in
roughly the equivalent to the per capita electricity used      Mindanao, which depends on hydro
in a period of two weeks in the United States or               power for almost 90% of its electricity
Canada.                                                       supply. The drought reduced Mindanao's
sales by 21% between 1990-92 and
The Power Crisis                                               halved the expected increase in sales in
Luzon in 1992 from 6% to 3%.
2.6        The power crisis in 1991-92 posed a
grave threat to the Philippines' economic recovery, and  (b)   Long  delays  occurred  in  obtaining
if continued, to its economic and political stability. The     approval for the Environmental Impact
crisis resilts from substantial outages -4 to 10 hours         Assessments (EIA) for power projects and
per day in Luzon and particularly in Mindanao, which          in  issuing  environmental  clearance
experienced one-third reduction in its power sales,            certificates (ECC). During the last five
(Figure  2.1). This  adversely  affected  industrial           years, not a single power project, other
production and the development of new industrial and           than combustion turbines, was approved
commercial activities. Thus, unemployment is rising            by the DENR. For example, although
and economic losses are mounting, estimated by the             coal plants are routinely constructed in
Bank at US$600-$800 million per year, using CS0/kWh            developed countries, this has proven very
as the cost of unserved energy (1.5% of GDP). The              difficult in the Philippines, and the
business community estimates the loss at US$1-1.3              approval process for key coal projects
billion. Necessities are jeopardized--not only because of      totalling 1,700 MW has taken from three
a  lack  of electricity  for reading, cooking  or              to four years. The main problems are
entertainment--but because other key services that             institutional  weaknesses  in  the
depend on electricity (such as traffic management,             environmental management process (para.
pumped water and sewerage), are also disrupted.                1.21), weakness in NPC's enviromnental
assessment capacity -particularly for
community relations- and the lengthy
MINDANAO POWEA SALES                            process needed to secure acceptance from
-ffi0 ;   _  _  _  _  _  _   _                       NGOs and affected persons.
3W _    _----0>                                   (c)   NPC's  financial performance  during
1991-92  was  inadequate,  reducing
internal cash generation and the amount
-               _             _ _ _ _ _ E available for power investments (paras.
_ =- - _ _ _ _ -=5.3-5.7).
(d)   Plants  were  inadequately  maintained
-    _      _   _  _                                 and/or rehabilitated. They experienced
O _ IS VW  vim   VW|  "     V6,t e:/;frequent outages, partly because they are
sv z rbn FCutel Itl l~ sold (averaging 22 years for thermal
plants), partly because they had to be
Figure 2.1                                                    operated   beyond  their  normal
maintenance periods, and, in one case
because of improper rehabilitation.
2.7        The power crisis is due to the following:           Lessons from previous projects have been
used in formulating the rehabilitation plan
(a)   A severe drought reduced water levels in           for the Bataan thermal power plant under
several key dams below the minimum                 the proposed project.
required for their operation, even during



- 10 -
NPC's Power Development Program                    Generation Program
2.8        The Bank has been working closely with   2.11       "Fast Track" Generation Progam. To
NPC to develop its Power Development Program (PDP)   solve the power crisis, the Government is taking
and its related power sector investment strategy. The   important steps under the "fast-track" power generation
long-term generation expansion program was developed    program. Since standard power projects require three to
by NPC using the WASP computer model to determine   six years to complete and would not provide short-term
the least-cost sequence of generating plant additions.   solutions, the Government has declared a power crisis
However,  in  the  past, the  program  was  not   and NPC has contracted with the private sector for six
implemented in a timely manner, mainly due to delays   plants with 700 MW of capacity for Luzon and 200
in securing environmental and social approvals (even    MW for Mindanao. These contracts involve combustion
after financing was in place) and to NPC's slow    turbines or diesel systems, which are the only
procurement.                                       generation equipment that could be commissioned
within one year, but they will substantially increase
2.9        Annex 4 details the respective plant   NPC's operating expenses. In the medium-term (by
additions and retirements assumed in the appraisal until   1996-97), NPC will balance the mix of its generating
2000. The capacity added by the "fast track" program    capacity by installing adequate base-load generating
includes combined-cycle  and  internal combustion    plants (with a heavy focus on geothermal energy) that
turbine plants which have low-construction lead times    will be comparable in cost, but environmentally
and reduced capital costs but high operating expenses.   preferable, to plants using imported coal. In the long-
However, because of fiancial constraints, some of the   term, options for power generating capacity are limited
BOT/BTO projects may be delayed or cancelled. As    to plants using imported toal and some hydropower
soon as NPC installs adequate base power generation   (see Fig. 2.2 for projected capacity mix in LAzon).
capacity, some of the operationally more expensive
"fast-track" plants would be reserved for peak power
GENERATION CAPACITY IN LUZON
generation or for stand-by capacity (although their take-                 a PACT  IN
or-pay charges will continue). NPC needs to monitor
closely the growth of demand and update its PDP
annually. Two major risks are involved: One is that
project approval or implementation delays will postpone
the completion of critical plants and therefore the           _
overhaul of some old plants. Second, the economic
growth may be much different than projected (under the
Government's forecast the power demand would be
about 2% points higher than assumed by the Bank),
which would result in higher sales in the initial years
and outages and will require larger investments.            -om e$3 -     z z          [me"
Areement was reached at negotiations that no later
than October 1 of each year. the Government. NPC and  Figure 2.2
the Bank would review NPC's PDP. and that NPC and
the Government would take the necessara actions to
implement the review's recommendations.            2.12        Because of concerns about safety, the
Bataan nuclear plant (605 MW) was mothballed in
2.10       Annex 3 (Tables 1-8) presents data on    1986. Negotiations with Wesdnghouse (the original
power demand between 1980-91 and forecasts demand    builder), regarding the cost to upgrade and operate the
for 1992-2010 for each regional system and for the total   plant, have been unsuccessful. For this reason, the
country, detailing power generation, peak demand and    Government is considering other options including
losses. It also computes key indicators --including    bringing in another company or using part of the
relationships with the population and GDP. These tables   equipment for other plants. Experience elsewhere shows
assume the implementation of the "fast track" projects   that the EIA and licensing requirements for nuclear
in a timely manner (para. 2.11).                   plants may result in delays. Therefore, the plant is



unlikely to operate for the next few years. Even if it is
brought on line it would at best postpone the, needed        ENERGY GENERAT ION IN LUZON - GWH
capacity additions by one year. The power generation        s _ _ _ P-A_r___
from the nuclear plant is not included in the current       , _
power development program.
2.13       Annex 3, Table 2.1 summarizes sales,      X _ _   _ _ _
generation and peak demand from 1990-2000. During      l                              - -
this time, power generation will almost double in             - _ _ _ _
Luzon, from 19,500 to 34,026 GWh, with an increase   Y          - _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
in peak demand from 2,973 MW to 5,857 MW, with
most of the additional capacity by the end of the decade    e U2 'I" IM    1_   11
from coal fired plants (Figure 2.2).  Total power           a                    *M  O wo  MU -r
generation and peak demand in the Philippines are also  I
expected to double during this period, from 25,486 to  Figure 2.4
47,280 GWh (Figure 2.3), and from 3,974 to 8,172
MW respectively. NPC's PDP, based on higher GDP    2.13       A major concern is the power supply for
growth rates than used by the Bank, forecast a    Luzon, the center of the country's industial and
generation of 62,000 GWh and an additional capacity of   commercial development. Its peak demand is expected
6,000 MW by 2000.                                 to increase from 2,973 MW in 1990 to 3,951 MW in
1995 and 5,857 MW in 2000. NPC is underLaking or
is in the fin  stages of preparing several key projects
N NG CASE                  that would provide this capacity, including the ongoing
or planned rehabilitation of several plants. Given the
substantial age of some plants and uncertainties in the
40 <availability of hydro energy (due to droughts and
increased domestic, industrial and agricultural use of
water), NPC will have to provide an ample capacity
margin (above 30%) to meet ".cceptable reliability
I i  ill||1|1|11|11|||||11 llg         criteria. The energy generation and capability required
for Luzon are presented in Annex 3, Table 8 and are
a lllllllllllllg   g                    summarized in Figure 2.4, which assumes that old
I a                                       , ,,,, ,,,, plants are kept in operation and that NPC  will
|   WI W"|  gavw                    implement on schedule the planned plants in its
_______________________________________l    program (Annex 4). However, some very old plants
Figure 2.3                                      (Manila 160 MW and Malaya 520 MW) will have to be
retired before the end of this decade.
2.14       Under' the appraisal assumptions, the    2.16      In Luzon, oil-based power generation has
additional capacity required (net of plant retirements)   reached a peak and is expected to have a declining role
will be about 4,100 MW by the year 2000. In any case,   in future energy production --reduced from 55% of the
the least-cost program and the investments for the next   total in 1992 to 33% by 1997. Geothermal and hydro
four years will be the same, but NPC has appointed a   power, although considerably increased, would only
high-level task force to review the PDP projections.   provide about 25% of the power generated by 1997.
NPC's Board of Directors has approved a policy to   Thus, additional capacity would be provided by coal
invite private sector bids for future power plants,   plants (increasing from 8% in 1993 to 35% by 1997).
excluding multipurpose hydro plants. As a result, of the
P850 billion capital expenditure forecast by NPC's
PDP between 1993-2005, about 68% will be for BOTs,
another 24% for transmission lines and other works and
only 8% for other plants to be constructed by NPC.



- 12 -
0 ~~4.   0m,.  ::   .a~  0m -  -:-z hIss...... .... .  . .:- P.k  :s  : ....- ,, .,    ......:.:..a
.'~QW  .-0   v-               _vW W.... *     MW    ,,d iQ0        MW    0/h  i00  X MV T.Q.
....,.  ..f.~~~.. .....X...                                        +     ''''^'  }Z--L .
OWi~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~OWk
-    -. . - C D-                           : :-        :  in    -  Vi  mu =n..:.;:.:u-:..
:-z  1<7.37'  2044      3229   1J    2M        SUP   3.7    3S       62     W   __7       37
.:: . .. . -  -   ...   2  . -:   f - . -  -.,   .  i -    . , -  - -  .: -    =. -   .. ... , v . \- , . ,: ..,
. - --. -.m - - - -  - -    o
-p          -       -       -} -X         -       -     - -X           -      -i -.:
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . .-. ..... ,
.'.  29.    e67          585    4...'...         X4)  7.54.  7X      126   4..M.43 1      1  ,  0 , ...   
~~,,,-  a, -   -  .   -   '- '-  '' '' ;-' -
Because geothermal energy is an indigenous resource    are needed to further reduce technical losses at the
and  is environmentally  more  benign  than  coal,   distribution level (para. 1.25).
geothermal plants are expected to increase production
from 900 MW  in 1990 to about 2,000 MW  by 1998.    Transmssion Systems
The growth of hydro energy will be limited to the
completion after the year 2000 of a few large projects    2.18     Along  with  the generation  expansion
(Agbulu 360 MW, Binogan 190 MW, Agus 140 MW)    prog,ram forecast in the appraisal is the transmission
and  several small hydro  projects  ranging  from      expansion program, summarized in Annex 5.  The
5-25 MW. The newly discovered gas deposits offshore    major part of the expansion is at the 230 kV and 138
of Palawan could be a promising future resource.       kV levels. The planned interconnection between Luzon
and Leyte will operate as a high voltage DC line (350
System Losses                                          kV). As a result of the decision to add large blocks of
generating capacity in 1993-94, NPC has had to plan a
2.17        Total energy  losses within the NPC    fast transmission system expansion and reinforcement
system  average about 7.8%, of which transmission    program (partially supported by the project) to ensure
losses are just 3%-3.5%; the difference is the in-plant   there would be no transmission bottlenecks from the
use, which is commensurate with  the substantial   fast track generating sources to the load centers. NPC
requirement for auxiliary power for thermal generation.    is preparnog a master plan for its overall high-voltage
Although efforts are being made by MERALCO and the    transmission development, and consulting assistance for
RECs to r_duce distribution losses -and these are   this was provided under the Power Transmission and
succeeding, However, additional effort and investment  Rehabilitation project.
1/ ln Luzon: Sucat Gas (30 MW), Enron Subic (28). Hopewell Navotas (100 MW), EGnron Pmnamucan (105 MW),
Bataan A (210 MW), Bataan B (140 MW), Polar Barge (90 MW), Bacon-Manito (150 MWV). In Visayas: Palinpinon U
(40 MW) and ia Mhndanao: Alsons/Tomena I(98 MW), Orbeta barge (135 MW) and Aguss I (40 MW).
30'



- 13 -
ll. The Borrower
Organization and Management                        which  negotiates  with  some  30  Government
corporations the annual targets to be achieved, reviews
3.1        The borrower of the proposed loan, which   their achievements at the end of the year, and
would be guaranteed by the Government, would be the    authorizes up to a 10%  salary  bonus to those
National Power Corporation (NPC), the second largest   corporations that meet or exceed them. This system has
government-owned corporation in the Philippines. NPC    operated for only two years, but is expected to be a
is responsible for the development, construction and    major factor in improving the corporations. Once this
operation  of power generation  and  transmission    goal is realized, the Government should provide NPC
facilities throughout the country and sells power in bulk    much greater autonomy and accountability.
to distribution utilities and some large industries. Its
current charter was issued in 1971 and amended by    3.5       NPC's Board has decided that practically
several subsequent presidential decrees.   NPC  is   all new power generation plants would be offered to the
implementing part of the Bacon-Manito Geothermal   private sector under BOT/BTO contracts. This would
Project (Loan 2963-PH) and the Energy Sector Project   require establishing a studardized bidding system,
(Loan 3163-PH). No new projects have been approved    which would make the solicitation and evaluation of
since 1989, while the Bank and the Government sought   bids more transparent (para. 1.16). NPC has, therefore,
to improve the fiacial and management performmce    decided to reorganize and substantially strengthen the
of the sector.                                     division responsible for private sector projects, to
ensure that: (a) adequate but not excessive capacity is
3.2        NPC's corporate powers are exercised by    contracted (most BOT contracts are largely at fixed
its Board of Directors, chaired by DOE's Secretary.   price); (b) the price is economic and the plants planned
Most of its ten members are from the private sector and   follow a sound power development strategy; (c) the
are  appointed   by  the  President,  including    projects are implemented in a timely fashion, (d) fuel is
representatives of the three regions. The management of   used efficiently and (e) equipment is adequately
NPC is vested in its Chairman and its President (the    maintained.
chief  executive  of  the  corporation);  NPC's
organizational structure and the distribution of its staff   NPC's Reform Program
as of July 1992 are presented in Annex 7.
3.6        Since the end of 1991, NPC made a
3.3        As a Government corporation, NPC is   substantial effort to improve its organization and
subject to  complex  laws  and  regulations  that   implemented an immediate improvement program to
occasionally have conflicting objectives. On the one   increase its efficiency, streamline its operations, and
hand, the Board is in charge of establishing corporate   enhance its procedures, its controls and reestablish its
policies; on the other, the Government subjects NPC to   credibility. Under this program, NPC dismantled its
very detailed regulations that apply to all Government   top-heavy management structure, clarified the operating
institutions, notably for salaries and audits, and from    relationship among organizational units and provided
1993 onwards, for budget approval. These and other   more autonomy to regional management.  Thus, its
externally-imposed constraints reduce the effectiveness   organizational structure  improved dramatically: it
of the Govermment's corporate sector. NPC's external   substantially reformed and streamlined its organization,
relations are weak and need strengthening to be able to   eliminated 17 vice-president positions, strengthened
inform the public, particularly about the corporation's   internal audits and financial controls, improved the
plans and achievements and the benefit of power   procurement processes, rotated  staff in  sensitive
projects, as well as to alleviate the environmental   positions, established a computerized MIS (to be
concerns of the people situated near proposed power   completed in 1993), and decentrlized and delegated
plant sites.                                       decisions to its regional offices.
3.4         The Government is monitoring NPC's   3.7           The Japan Grant Facility is financing an
efficiency  through  the  Govermnent  Corporate   "Efficiency  and  Operational Improvement Study"
Monitoring and Coordinating Committee (GCMCC),   (EOIS) in preparation for the Leyte geothermal projects



- 14-
(see Terms of Reference Annex 6). The EOIS wouid    3.9        Under its improvement program, NPC
identify aspects to be improved further and recommend   increased its efficiency and reduced its staff by 2,000
procedures and systems. The EOIS was contracted in   between 1989-92. Moreover, total staff expenditues
December 1992 with a joint venture of the Electricity   now use less than 4% of its revenues (Figure 3.1) and
Supply Board International (Ireland) and Deloitte and   in terms of energy sales per employee, NPC is
Touche (USA). The consultants have completed an   reasonably  efficient (see Figure 3.2). However,
initial diagnosis and wiUl recommend institutional and    compared to developed countries, the energy sold per
operational changes to improve the efficiency and sound    staff is still low. This indicates potential for
management of all aspects of NPC. The Government   improvements with the increase in generation capacity.
and the Bank would review the study and monitor the
implementation of its recommendations. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that the Government. NPC and            ENERGY SOLD PER CAPITA
the Bank would review no later than December 31.                     - 
1993 the recommendations of the Efficiency and              _ _  _
Operational  Improvement Study  and  the  study
recommendations would be implemented in accordance        4
with a timetable to be agred with the Bn.The EOIS     I   .           
should result in a major institutional improvement for
NPC and provide a solid base for future projects.         2 _ _ v    ,               -
PERSONNEL COST ON REVENUES         o o     i                      ,,,
.U IW7 I.I 1"3 . M *07 .M 20O
A a                                            a   CUvi   O      'tSi-M V  6t
Figure 3.2
___________________                     3.10        As mentioned in para. 1.27, in December
1989, the Government approved a law that standardized
the salaries of aU state employees, including those in
Government corporations. This drastically reduced the
maximum salaries that NPC could pay and created
YEAM                        problems in various areas (such as high turnover of
Figure 3.1                                       trained staff and difficulties in attracting qualified new
Figure 3.1                                staff). Under the 1989 law, most NPC staff would not
have received salary increases for five or more years
3.8         Staffin. A profile of NPC staff, allocated    and, since private sector salaries are about three times
according to functions, is presented in Chart 1. Of the    higher NPC lost about 500 technical staff in 1992. To
total 14,500, the engineering group (3,100) constitutes   solve these problems, the President has been authorized
21%, and includes the functions of planning, design and    under the Power Crisis Act of 1993 to increase NPC
construction. This large group would be reduced over   salaries to levels comparable with the private sector
time to delegate more activities to the private sector. In   (para. 1.27).
the meantime, due to the current massive expansion
program, the engineering group has been restructured    Training
into three functional groups (planning and development,
design  and  specifications, and  construction) and    3.11    Most of the  staff responsible  for
provided with the maximum decentralized authority to    management and administration  have professional
carry out generation projects.                     degrees. NPC has ample in-house training programs
that are attended each year by about 2,000 persons.
But, the NEDA training limitation -that foreign



15 -
training must be financed by grants-- makes it difficult   Financial Management
for staff to acquire the required new technologies (such
as combined cycle, pollution control, high voltage DC    3.14  NPC has well-staffed units to carry out
systems, etc.). Thus, the Bank has recommended that   fmancial planning  and  budgeting. The  financial
training should involve refresher courses in operations/   planning unit has developed several computerized
maintenance and should include power plant simulators    models for evaluating investment alternatives. The
and on-site participatiou in the installation and operation    budget unit prepares and updates the annual budget and
and maintenance of various types of power plants,   measures performance against budget estimates. NPC's
instruments, transmission lines and substations.  An    accounting system is based on internationally accepted
improved training program is being financed under the    power utility principles and procedures. Enhancement
Bacon Manito project.                               of its management information system (MIS) --being
developed under the Bacon-Manito Power Project (Loan
Financial Policies                                  2969-1-PR) and to be completed in 1993-- will improve
the quality and scope of its financial management,
3.12        NPC frixed assets are appraised every four   maintenance systems and administrative records.
years, with interim revaluations every year, based on
indices for local and foreign cost increases. However,   3.15  Audit.  The Government's Commission
the 1988 appraisal by the Asian Appraisal Company,   on Audit (COA) carries out an external audit, but a
Inc. (AACI) had some deficiencies, and a second   large part of its staff is stationed permanently on NPC
valuation was completed by another consultant (Beca   premises and partially act as internal auditors. Because
Worley). In 1992, NPC incorporated the results of this    COA may object to expenditures, which then become
revaluation into its books. Because of the delay in   the personal liability of the concerned official, pre-
establishing the revalued assets, NPC's audited rate of   audits are common. Audited fnancial statements are to
return was only partly revalued and was overestimated    be issued within six months of the close of the fiscal
during the 1988-91 period. Consultants under the Bacon    year; although these reports have been generally
Manito Project have been hired to update the valuation    satisfactory, they have been submitted late and on one
of NPC's fixed assets. According to its charter, NPC is   occasion, were made public before NPC was able to
permitted to earn up to a 10% rate of return on its   discuss errors or unfounded opinions, worsening public
year-end revalued net fixed assets in operation, plus   opinion problems. All audit reports have beew obtained
two-months working capital. The President has been    and are otherwise satisfactory. Agreement was reached
authorized by Congress to increase NPC's rate of return    with NPC at neaotiations that within six months of the
to 12%. A&reement was reached at negotiations that.   end of its fiscal year (i.e. by July 1 of each year). it
no later than December 31. 1993. NPC will complete    will send to the Bank an audited report of its annual
and incorporate in its accountina a satisfactorv valuation    financial statements. the Statement of Expenditures and
of its fixed assets in operation, and annually thereafter   the Special Account for the project prepared by
revalue them using a methodologv satisfactor to the   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Bank.
3.16       NPC's internal audit department has a
3.13        NPC is exempt from corporate income tax    staff of 53, which seems adequate for its present tasks.
and from customs duties on equipment and material   However, the scope of its work, particularly on non-
imports financed by official loans. Although a Supreme    financial matters, and its reporting relationship within
Court decision (presently being appealed) has confirmed   the organization, will be reviewed under the EOIS.
its exemption from taxes on domestic petroleum
products, the corporation has been paying them,    3.17        Insuanc. NPC insures its assets through
pending a final decision by the Supreme Court, which    a combination of self-insurance and commercially
would allow NPC to avoid them in the future and    purchased policies.  These practices are sadsfactory.
obtain refunds for the roughly RI10 billion paid through    Agreement was reached at negotiations that NPC would
the end of 1992.                                   continue to maintain adequate insurance and will
undertake annual reviews of its insurance program to
ensure that coveraLe is appropriate.



- 16 -
IV. The Project
Background                                          the likelihood of implementation delays, and uncertainty
on the financing of some of the "fast track" projects.
4.1         NPC's generation expansion program for
the Luzon grid has been seriously hampered over the    4.3      The success of the "fast-track" generation
last five years due to: (a) a severe slowdown in the    expansion program  will depend on a simultaneous
process  for  granting  environmental  compliance    expansion and reinforcement of the transmission system
certificates for technically sound and environmentally   so as to provide reliable power to the load centers in
well-prepared projects; (b) delays in implementing    Metro Manila. NPC, in coordination with MERALCO,
approved projects (resulting from protracted decision-   completed a comprehensive study of its transmission
making on procurement); (c) delays in geothermal   system requirements and prepared a plan to reinforce
resources development, and (d) a long gestation period   the Luzon grid through the construction of new lines,
in pioneering private sector involvement in power   the addition of transforming capacity, and installation of
generation.  This has led to a substantial erosion of   switching equipment.  This program includes certain
generating capacity margins which, in turn, has   critical components that must be implemented in a very
required existing thermal power plants to run well   short time (by mid-1993), and which will call for
beyond their scheduled maintenance periods. As a result   gready accelerated procurement procedures. Some of
there have been frequent breakdowns.               the less critical lines would be procured through the
longer ICB process.
4.2         The power situation has been aggravated
by an extremely severe three-year drought (El Nino),   Project Objectives
that is expected to continue for an uncertain period.
Thus, hydro capacity is only about 20% of what was    4.4      The main objectives of the proposed
achieved in previous years.   The Luzon grid is   project are to alleviate power shortages in Luzon,
operating under conditions of negative reserve capacity,   through (a) a transmission system  expansion and
manifested by prolonged blackouts lasting from 2-10   reinforcement program  needed to bring power to
hours a day. Economic development is under severe    Manila from the "fast track" generation plants and (b)
strain (due to the power shortages), and losses are   the rehabilitation of the Bataan thermal generating
estimated at about $600-800 million per year--sums that   plant. It will also improve the performance of the
are comparable to those resulting from recent natural   energy sector through the approval by the Government,
disasters. The Govermnent has realized, although late,   in consultation with the Bank, of an Energy Sector Plan
that this situation cannot be allowed to persist. It has,   covering  policies,  institutions  and  implementing
therefore,  launched  a  "fast-track"  generation    mechanisms (paras. 1.10-1.26). In addition it will
development program.  This program  involves the    ensure the financial viability of NPC to undertake a
construction of several large, short-delivery thermal   massive and long-overdue investment program  and
plants (Annex 4), most of which would be built and   improve its institutional setup (para. 3.7).
operated by the private sector under BOT and BTO
contracts and rehabilitation of some existing thermal   Project Description
power plants. The Govermment is aware that once the
longer-term  but more  economical power supply   4.5           The proposed project would have the
alternatives have materialized peak-power capacity may   following major components:
be somewhat in excess (5% to 10%) of what would be
planned under normal circumstances. However, it felt     (a)   Expansion of the transmission system in
it needed this surplus capacity in order to avoid further      the Bataan/Batangas areas west of Metro
damage to the country's economy, particularly given            Manila, to  facilitate  transmission  of
the old age and unreliability of existing thermal plants,      almost 1000 MW  of new  "fast-track"



- 17 -
generation capacity planned at Limay and    operating since 1973 and performed satisfactorily,
Subic power station sites;             except that its output has been limited to 70 MW due to
a problem in the steam turbine. Because it has operated
(b)   Provision  of  goods  and  materials   for about 20 years, it will need a substantial
(conductors, insulators and supports) to   refurbishing to ensure its reliability. The 150 MW Unit
reinforce the transmission system;     # 2 was operating satisfactorily since 1978, but a direct
lightning strike to its generator circuit breaker caused
(c)   Rehabilitation of the two units (Unit #1,   serious damage to the rotor in 1990. In 1991, the rotor
75 MW  and Unit #2, 150 MW) of the    was repaired overseas, but ever since, the unit has
Bataan oil-fired thermal power plant. Unit   suffered  from   excessive  vibrations* that  have
2 already operates at less than 43 %    necessitated reducing its output to less than 80 MW. A
capacity  and  both  units  experience   recent consultant's report evaluating the performance
frequent  outages.  The  rehabilitation    and rehabilitation/repair requiremnents of NPC's thermal
would ensure continued operation at rated    generating  plants recommended  rehabilitating  the
capacity, improved heat rates and plant   Bataan units, which are still in good condition and
availability at a fraction of the cost of a    whose life could be extended by at least 10 years if
new plant;                              certain essential work is carried out (Annex 9). Based
on this report, NPC estimates the following
(d)   Consulting   assistance  for  project   improvements in performance after rehabilitation: (a)
preparation and implementation of a    Unit #1  - 7%  improvement in heat rate, 17%
master plan to develop the 500 kV extra   improvement in availability  and 5%  increase in
high voltage (EHV) system, detail the    capacity; and (b) Unit # 2 - 9% improvement in heat
scope  and  optimization   of  the   rate, 26%  improvement in availability and 87.5%
rehabilitation work for the Bataan thernal   increase in capacity (from 80 MW to 150 MW). The
plant and improve NPC's institutional   Bank mission visited the plant and prima facie
systems  (the  EOIS, fnanced  by  a    concluded that the plant has been well maintained and
Japanese grant, para. 3.7).             would be a good candidate for rehabilitation. However,
two recent plants rehabilitated by NPC have
4.6         Transmission   Expansion   and    experienced outages, mainly because materials and
Reinforcement. NPC has carried out detailed studies   equipment from  sources other than  the original
to expand and reinforce its transmission system which    suppliers were used. This pitfall would be avoided in
would involve the comnmissioning of: (a) 700 MW of   the proposed rehabilitation of the Bataan plants.
combined cycle power generation from new stations in    Further, consultants would be employed to assist NPC
Limay (Bataan), recently approved as BTO projects and   in the rehabilitaton work throughout its duration.
(b) 405 MW  of combined cycle cum diesel power   Alreement was reached at neeotiations that not later
generation from the power station at Subic Bay. This   than December 31. 1993 NPC will appoint consultants
power would be transmitted to the major supply centers   (according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank)
of Hermosa, San Jose and Balintawak around Manila.   to Rrenare an action plan to establish the a=Dropr ate
The expansion involves: (a) about 300 km of 230 kV    methods and  specifications for the optimal and
transmission lines; (b) 600 MVA of 230 kV power   enviromnentally sound rehabilitation of its Bataan
transformer capacity; (c) eighteen 230 kV switching    thermal power plan.
bays; (d) 300 MVA of capacitor banks and (e)
associated protection and communication facilities. The
urgently needed 230 kV transmission lines will be built
on 90 ft wooden poles (to avoid a lengthy procurement
and construction period for steel tower lines) and will
be routed predominantly along existing roadways (to
avoid delays in securing rights-of-way).
4.7         Rehabilitation of the Bataan Thermal
Power Plant. The 75 MW Unit # 1 at Bataan was



18 -
Table: 4       "i    ays :of: .r;jc C
*                . ..  . .: .  .               ... .  ...  . .  ....  ..: . ..  ..  . ..; ..  . .  ... ...
-~~ -CR         -                                 ** *-                     .. *mt+44,    . i.4-
-----------'-1--tes-'                          t  ~~      ~o~tS
A. T flWm~3)~*fl    ~toi Az SeRein   190  220$03 2992 4. $ -S t   3    4.47 ;7.... 0iQ -Q   1.
B. 3atami Powe P1int Reh.b.        91    5       676  :,       3.5  2w*       M.0    R.5 -
C, Ptoj.#t. P~4t.l1*/ta1Jm,        . 8            31 : 1      . .9 3    .      1.2   7S       ::2
D. n       otitut aonil 0.eAnt           0 1 3 13   0.41  . 0.0            :0.   .  100.0
E. Tetot Ad X$*"          .      .41      X    141   A.fl  .4   :: 0         5. -.           :
~~~~~~- ~---- ~--  ---e--- --_  ...........................__--*_..-____- .::
TOTAL COST                        430  .2834  .3254. .0X.0:   ;1              25 .3 X2.:
.B5cA  CO?lSX4CU                    28    280    00-.- .a82 fiST  S .:1  3.0 .  : .1    90,8t;...1.8 . :i: ..
sRXC  XRTWICE                      62       fi 411    473   6 , *2X 10  i.O    :*8  .  .7  J... 87.21:.;:
1TOAL .5T. WIT COJINMcrlo 1I:   20-  3         4515-  43  1.-.. .   f.02  . :A,      7 i1 1
.11 VU4o to rommdI04i  the ls di.. *.tot. :e .; s . . . . .  *44.
23 Totil Value. dd taxes t   at               *4* mlllloc
component and will be at the standard variable interest
rate for a 20-year term including a 5-year grace period.
Cost Estimates                                            NPC will bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
nsks for the loan, which will be guaranteed by the GOP
4.8          The base project cost is estimated  at    for a fee of 0.5% p.a.
p3,254 million (US$125.2 million), and its total cost,
including physical and price contingencies, is R4,035     Project Implementation
million (US$144.8), with a foreign component of
US$126 million. Physical contingencies represent 9.5%     4.10         NPC   will  be  responsible  for  the
of the  base  cost, and  total price  and  physical    implementation of the proposed project. The design of
contingencies are 16% of the base cost. Details of the    the transmission system component has already been
cost estimate are presented in Annex 8. Base costs are    completed. A project manager from the Transmission
at June 1992 price levels and are drawn from contracts    System  Design Department has been appointed to
recently placed by NPC for similar transmission works,    coordinate procurement and implementation activities.
the consultant's report and the Bank evaluadon of the    Surveys of the transmission line routes are under way,
Bataan plant rehabilitation.  Price contingencies are    and NPC expects no difficulty in securing rights-of-
estimated on the basis of escalation factors of 7%  for    way, as most of the lines will be routed along existing
the local component and 3.1 %  p.a. for the foreign    roadways. Switching bay expansions and transformer
component. Table 4.1 summarizes the cost esdmates for    additions will be in existing substation plots and no land
the project, and details are presented in Annex 8.        acquisition is necessary. Constuction of the lines and
substations will be performed by local contractors with
Financing Plan                                            proven track records in transmission expansion projects,
and NPC will provide close supervision.
4.9          Table  4.2  summarizes  the  proposed
financing plan for the project. Bank financing will
account for about 69% of the total requirements of
US$159.8   million   (including   interest  during
construction). The proposed Bank loan of US$110
nillion will finance 87% of the estimated foreign



19 
Tabl W4`2.-' ThAndn  Tlah
? ~4 toir  X4 o
A.  ~ ~     A hhab4   ZHO4  106.3  $6, 1X  8.4   7.      .$   0.0
,~~~ a 9 
C4 ~~#~I*4b  ~  37    1.)   Q~~8Z  0.1    0.7   0.     0.2
* : 'u,1          ;.. '.       0'3  .''. '".'2    0.4-  0.0       .
.            * . .              1 .4.... ......    ..  .                  Z.  S    
;}~~~~~~~01                     4$- -1 - 199. 
20W3 1A*j!5I   i i4               159.1  iA.., 4.e
4.11        Rehabilitation of the Bataan thermal plant   and finncial stateents and  will vromntl  take
will be mnaged by NPC's Operation Project Services    corctve measures as recommended by the Bank.
Division, and the maintenance staff will actively    Procedures for monitoring  the project's physical
participate in the work.  Many of the parts and    progress and financial reports have also been agreed
equipment wil be procured from  the oiginal plant   upon  ith NPC.  Parts 1 and 3 of the Project
suppliers, since NPC has had unsasfactory experiences    Completion Report (PCR) will be drafted by the Bank
when attempting to procure such items from  other    nct later than six months after the project has ended.
vendors  through   international  competition.    NPC will review parts 1 and 3 and prepare part 2 of
Rehabilitation work wdi  be let out to reputable   the PCR within three months thereafter.
contractors, with supervision secured from the original
plant manufacturrs. An independent consultant %Vl be    4.13     The project will be supervised along with
associated  with  the  rehabilitation  throughout its   the Bank's ongoing energy sector projects in the
duration.                                            Philippines. Supervision will focus on: (a) periodically
reviewing of NPC's investmnent plan in keeping with
Monitoring and Supervision                           changes in the economic scenario; (b) reviewing
compliance with financial covenants to ensure a strong
4.12        To ensur  there will be no delays in   finacial perfornmace  by  NPC;  (c)  monitoring
procurement (which has been a problem in the past for    compliance  with  environmental  conditions;  (d)
NPC), and since NPC will be burdened with several   implementing the ESP, and (e) providing adequate
other projects at the same time. -=rrn__ent was reached    technical supervision for the project and the consultant
at neeotiations that NPC wil submit to the B         studies. Bank supervision missions will also assist NPC
mnthly status Rehorts on or rement 2erm s.   in institutional development activities and provide
ly project bmNlementation reports and semiannual   advice on environmental issues.  Supervisiort of the
Diviections of its   aiwer demand, capital exendiuel    project will require expertise in power engineering and



-20 -
thennal nower plant maintenance, as well as conducting         plants remaining idle for that period,
environmental, economic and financial analyses. Such           demand would be curtailed &ad this
expertise is available widtin the Bank. It is assumed          would have a serious impact on the
that thee missions annually for a period of three years        economy.
will be adequate and the estimated staff input would be
a total of 50 staff-weeks (on the basis of sharing with  (b)   Proprietary equipment for line protection
other energy sector projects in the Philippines).              and communications (which has to match
the existing installations) totaling about
Procurement                                                     US$3.5  million  equivalent,  will be
procured from the original suppliers
4.14        NPC  has improved  its procurement                 through direct negotiations based on
systems, which has included standardizing its bidding          procedures acceptable to the Bank. Three
documents. The following  contract packages are                contracts for other proprietary equipment
expected to be financed by the proposed Bank loan.              include  the  main  parts  needed  to
rehabilitate the turbine-generator, boiler
......... :, 1,  11 E  n       iand other auxiliaries which together with
the installation fee totals about US$21
Table C,3 - -wukber o- C  - r-  -                        million  equivalent.  The  goods  and
-       .   Wi .               2                           equipment procured on a proprietary
.. itM;b -t-.*smns~   Un. 2      -.   ~                   basis would be subject to Bank prior
:   O?k   UIwi-at i B:- d  -.U  T.-a  . V --approval.
:'. .,"'~.on Un, M.-a'-- '2 ,  .:
:-.U - ;f   =      i  ..i                  4.16        Transmission  line  and   substation
*I:~ ~ "A MMOVIV.*  iis*.  t7..   V   ...............  equipment and materials totaling about US$67.9 miHion
... ..}   ;    >*  0  -- --i f-    -  equivalent wiUl be procured through international
sjy j}: > ttion..   e.asat  2   .competitive  bidding  (ICB).   Installation  of the
transmission lines and substations, totaling about
;Q PX  -5 -  0 -     US$3.5 million equivalent will be let out through local
(1) i~.B    -t.~to~ ~t0        S       -       - :-competitive bidding procedures. About five contracts
_                    _                         each for parts and installation are expected. Acceptable
local firms are available for jobs that are too smaaU to
attract international contractors. About three contracts
4.15        All contracts for the procurement of   are foreseen for this work.
gools will be awarded under ICB procedures except for
the followinlg:                                    4.17        Procurement following ICB procedures is
expected to total about 62% of the loan amount, with
(a)   Wood poles for the transmission lines   initernational shopping covering an additional 15%. In
amounting to US$6.5 miHlion will be    evaluating bids obtained through ICB  procedures,
procured  using  limited  international   domestic preference will apply for specific components
bidding procedures (UB) following the    as approved by the Bank.  A margin of preference
Bank's standard procurement guidelines.   equal to 15% of the CIF bid price of imported goods or
There are a limited number of sources for   the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is
this item and bids will be invited from    less, will be allowed for domestic manufacurers. Prior
five  internationally  known  suppliers.    Bank review of bid documents and approval of contract
Table 4.4 presents the details of the    awards wil be mandatory for all contracts expected to
generating plants and the corresponding    cost the equivalent of US$1.0 million or more, which
transmission  lines  and  substations.   will cover about 90%  of total contract value.
Procurement of wood poles is critical if   Consulting services fmanced by the Bank will be
the  commissioning  schedule  of the    awarded according to Bank guidelines. About 100
generating stations is to be met. Any    person-months of consult;ng services are envisaged for
delay would result in the generating



- 21 -
envisaged for the project. Details of the procurement   Environment
arrangements are presented in Table 4.5.
4.21       The proposed project is classified as
Category r and is not expected to have any significant
Disbursements                                      adverse impacts on the environment.  Transmission
lines will be routed along existing roadways and run on
4.18        The Bank loan will be disbursed against   poles, causing minimum infringement upon the line
(a) 100%  of foreign expenditures for imported    corridor. Substation expansions will occur at the sites
equipment  and  materials;  (b)  100%   of  local   of existing substations and no land acquisition will be
expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured    necessary. NPC will obtain the necessary ECCs for the
items; (c) 100% of installation works; (d) 70% of other   transmission lines from  the DENR  (which is the
locally procured goods and services and (e) 100% of   regulating authority). The rehabilitation of the Bataan
total expenditures for consulting services.        thermal power plant is expected to significantly reduce
particulate emissions, because of more efficient
4.19        For all equipment and materials contracts,   combustion after boiler rehabilitation. The improved
disbursements will be made against full documentation.   heat rate would reduce fuel oil consumption and
As the number of contracts is small and manageable,   emissions. Consultants will analyze  cost-effective
statement of expenditures (SOE) procedures will not be    measures to improve the environmental performance of
followed nor will a special account be opened.   Bataan with regard to atmospheric emissions and
However, NrC  will ensure that each withdrawal   effluent discharges. As a condition for disbursement
application will be no less than US$30,000 equivalent.    with regard to the rehabilitation of the Bataan thermal
com_onent, NPC would submit for Bank apuroval a
4.20        The  project  includes  financing  for   satisfactory rehabilitation and environmental Drotection
transmission  lines. This component, however, is   ZFn.
presently under implementation, because it is critical to
the success of the "fast track" generation program and    4 '2  The  Government  and  NPC   have
restoring  gradually  power supply  by  mid-1994.   ;cnfirmed that no population will need to be resettled
However, the Board presentation has to be postponed    as a result of the activities carried out under the Bank-
by six months until the required tariff improvements   imanced components of the project. Aareement was
were  implemented.  Under  these  exceptional    eached at negotiations that: (a) by December 31. 1993.
circumstances, retroactive financing has been increased    NE 'would obtain all envirommental clearances for the
to US$22.0 million (20%  of the loan) for payments   rehlik"itation of the Bataan thermal plant: and (b) in the
made prior to the date of the loan agreement but after   event .esettlement would. however, be required. NPC
September  1,  1992.  Annex  10  presents  the    will ta 5 adeguate measures acceptable to the Bank for
disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan and   the r'se.tement and rehabilitation of all persons
the profile used (based on emergency projects), which   involu. tarilv displaced as a result of the project.
conform with the fast-track nature of the project and the
advanced stage of preparation by NPC. Because of the
urgency of the project, the proposed loan is expected to
be disbursed faster than indicated by the standard
profile. The project is expected to be completed by
December 30, 1995 and the closing date for the loan
will be December 30, 1996.



- 22 -
Table 4.4 Transmission System Expansion Projects
Generating Plant         Commissioning           Asodated TransmIsdon
l                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Date   Llnes and Subdtlors
|ataan (ABB) Combined Cycle Units I & 2
3 x 70 MW OTS                  January-March 1993    230 kV 8ataan-Hermosa Transm. Lines 1-2
3 x 70 MW GTS                   April-June 1993  5 x 230 kV Switching Bays at Batian S/S
I x 100 MW ST                  October 1993     5 x 230 kV Switching Days at Hemosa S/S
I x 100 MW ST                  December 1993
Pinaumukan (Emron)                                230 kV Pinaumukan-BatangasTransznission
105 MW Diesel                  April 1993        Line
Poro-Point (ESI-replacement) Combined Cyc!e Unit
2 x 75MW GTS
I x 50 MW ST                    March 1993      230 kV Poro-Point-8tuang
August 1993     Transmission Line
Table 4.5 Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Component                                                                Total
ICB         LCB      Other    N.B.F        Cost
/a
Substations                             15.5       0.5       4.5       1.2        21.7
(14.4)     (0.5)    (3.2)    (0.0)        (18.1)
Transmission Lines                      73.9       4.5       6.6       4.1        89.1
(60.4)     (3.0)    (6.5)    (0-0)        (69.9)
Power Plant Rehabilitation               0.0       0.0      30.8       1.4        32.2
(0.0)     (0.0)   (21.0)    (0.0)        (21.0)
Consultants                              0.0       0.0       1.8       0.0          1.8
(0.0)     (0.0)    (1.0)    (0.0)         (1.0)
TOTAL                                   89.4        5.0     43.7       6.7       144.8
(74.8)     (3.5)   (31.7)    (0.0)    (110.0)
/_            Refers to limited international bidding, proprietary
procurement and procurement of consulting services.
N.B.F.:       Not Bank-financed, including duties and taxes, engineering and
administrative overheads.
Note:         Figures in parenthesis indicate financing from the Bank loan.



- 23 -
V. FINANCE
Past and Current Financial Performance             treat the refinancing principal and interest as new
loans (as is done in the fnancial projections in this
5.1        Although   wholly  owned  by  the   report).  Using this analysis. NPC's internal cash
Government, NPC enjoys substantial autonomy. It   generation was negative during the previous years,
formulates and approves its investments, proposes    and its debt service and self-financing ratios were too
tariffs to ERB, enters into contracts with suppliers of   low.
goods and services and borrows from foreign and
domestic lenders (subject to Government approval).   5.4       NPC's financial situation became critical
Its coordination with institutions in other sectors   in 1991 when the Supreme Court approved an
should strengthen with the establishment of the DOE.    injunction against a tariff increase passed by the NPC
Board (R0.17/kWh). After considerable delay, the
5.2        NPC's  financial  performance  is    Court decided that ERB was the competent authority
presented in Annex 12 and summarized in Table 5.1.   to decide on NPC tariffs. Its tariff problems are also
The assumptions for the fnancial projections are   due to its tarnished image which led to public
explained in Annex 14.                             opposition to rate hikes.
5.3        NPC's past financial performance has   5.5          NPC's unfavorable financial situation in
not been satisfactory. Although it has generally   1991 was also the result of a large hike in oil prices
reported compliance with the 8%  rate of return   during the Gulf War and the high oil prices that
covenant (agreed upon with the Bank under the Bacon    persisted afterwards and were used to refinance the
Manito Project (Loan 2969-1 PH) and the Energy    Oil Price Stabilization Fund (OPSF). Moreover, NPC
Sector Project (Loan 3163-PH), the figures were   depends a great deal on oil for its power generadon,
based on partially revalued assets until 1992. The    and a prolonged and unusual drought forced the
delay in fully revaluing assets was due to errors in the    Corporation to triple the use of combustion turbines
initial consultant report (1988) that required a second    (normally reserved for peak loads).  Consequently,
consultancy study (both financed by ADB grants),   fuel oil and diesel expenses almost quadrupled
which was completed only by mid-1991. Therefore,   between 1989-91 and represented about 60%  of
the revaluation between 1987-91 includes only the    NPC's direct operating expenses. Although its tariffs
debt-revaluation  losses  due  to  exchange  rate    were  increased  51 %  over  this  period  (from
variations. As a result, although NPC achieved an 8%  P0.93/kWh to 1.40/kWh), they did not improve
rate of return in 1988-89, its cash situation was only   finances sufficiently, since the Corporation was not
viable because the Govermnent allowed it to benefit   allowed to raise tariffs further to the necessary level.
from the debt restructuring under the Paris Club (for    Under these conditions, the rate of return was only
foreign loans payable by NPC).  NPC's audited    3.4%  instead of the covenanted rate of 8% and the
financial statements show a positive internal cash    Govermnent had to rescue NPC  in 1991 with a
generation and other satisfactory indicators for the    contribution of P3.6 billion (which the Government
1987-90 period (debt-service ratio, self-financing    converted into equity in 1992).
ratio) when the refinanced principal and interest (the
actual debt service paid) is deducted from the debt.
For example, for 1987-89, the audits show a
self-financing ratio of 56%, 39% and 40%. However,
a more valid analysis would subtract the total debt
service from the gross amount of cash generated and



-24 -
Table 5.1 - Pas  Fnanial HI-ghlights (Billion Pes)
1987    1988    1989    1990      1991
En*rMy Sales Revenues                  17,473  19,810  20.610  25.779   32,364
Total Operating Raveenues              17.473  19.810  20.610  25.779   32.364
Total Operating Expenses               12.779  14.224  15.311  21.660   29.834
Taxes and Dividends                     0,929   0.100   0.057   0.071    0.031
NeOt Inome                              0.651   1.502   1.661  -0.065   -2.930
Casb Available From Operations         -1.630  -3.387  -1,103   0,114   -6.249
Total Investment                       4.881   1.911   6.609  11.181    9.513
B *Dorrowing                            7.954   5.523   8.483  10.245    9.225
- Rate Base                             65.631  68.317  66.090  68.409   75.257
Total Assets                          139.908 132.337 135.992 160.460  170.635
Total Long-Term Debt (Not)             76.696  51.531  52.740  69.108   72.247
Total Equity                           37.393  32.496  34.553  32.911   37.098
RATIOS AND CONPARhTCRS
Electricity Sold - TWh                     19      21      22       23       23
-.Avera   Tariff - P/Kwh                  0.90    Q;94    0.93.    I12       1.40:
.--Xate 6f.Return-NPC's. charter            7.04    8.4X    7.61    5;8X      3.3%
Rat of Return-Revalued Assets 11          e.ox    8.2X    8.0X    6.01      3,4Z
S'G''eVYitnemilng :Ratio  2}.-37.4X  -7.X-68                         ;X 53.9X             i
-Dsbb Sexvice.Coverage. 31               0.81    0M64    0.90    1,01      0\54
Debt /(Debt plus Equity)  41               671     6'1    - 602     68X      66X
Warkinu katio  5] -.                       48i     492     532      64X      75X
04xrent Ratio :61                          61     1011    105X      701      70X
Abcounts Receivibie (days)                 47      44      47       52       44:
:113 -'''  :pixa'tins  incm  less taxes on net average hift.orical Uxed. asseta  -In
-        operation.       .
21   . Cash availab6l  for invest.mit divided by 3-yar averirae capital arpenditurs
:   -Operaiit.ng cash flow divided by debt. sexvkoe -( mortiasti  -n plus operatIonal
.,: .interest)                                                   .............................. . .- 
41     Long-term debt divided by lon$-tem debt pl9s total .SquIy.             :       -
:53 5     erating expenditures oxoluding depreciation divided by operating revenues.-
61     Current. assets divided by current libilities,.
5.6           The  1992  situation  was  particularly           Government contributions.  Thus, in January 1992 a
difficult because of a the drought (it reduced hydro            tariff increase designed to reach a 6.5%  rate of return
generation to 20%  of its normal level), and the sudden         (R0.23/kWh) was implemented. The reduction in oil
revaluation of NPC fixed assets (which increased them          prices (fuel oil and bunker expenses are almost 60%
and their annual depreciation by 50%  between 1991-             of  direct  expenses)  improved  the  Corporation's
92). Conditions  were  further complicated  by  the             finances, since nearly two-thirds of the benefit from
politicizing of NPC tariff increases in anticipation of         the oil price reduction was retained by NPC, even
the May 1992 presidential and congressional elections.          after its tariff was simultaneously reduced by 3%.
Moreover, previous delays in implementing tariff
hikes  required an unusually large tariff hike (more            5.7           Financial results for 1992 (Annex  12)
than 30%), which was difficult to introduce given the           show  a  substantal improvement in  NPC  finances
corporation's public  image. Thus, the Government               despite the fact that an intense drought continued
proposed reforms (paras. 1.10-1.12 and 3.7), and the            (even during the rainy seasor), several large plants
Bank required that, as a minimum, NPC double the                breakdowns; this led to outages of 6-12 hours per day
1991 rate of return (3.4%) to 6%  in 1992-- provided           in Luzon and Mindanao and higher costs -due to a
it would  not have a cash  deficit requiring further            greater dependence on combustion turbines. In fact,



- 25 -
CAPITALCEXPENDITURESinvestment tagets NPC must maintain a solid fnanci
C5P.8TAL EXPEND I TURES             performance and the Government should ensue that
veytariff adjustmnents will be made promptly under a
1989-,depoliticized  approval  process.  Notwithstanding
NPC's plans, the large investmnent (Table 5.2) may be
delayed because of constraints in fnancing the foreign
i   4                                           component of the proposed projects (about $5 bilion
between 1993-97).
so
so                             ~~~~~~~~~Overall Flnancing Plan
setr investments   19 AC-92MI5.9                    NPC plans to invest 179 billion ($5.4
at W1W."WT  WN            N                    billion) between 1993-97. As shown in Table 5.2, its
__________________________________   main investments as a percentage of total capital
Figure 5.1                                        expenditures are for power generation  (51.5%),
transmission systems (25.6%) and other items such as
rehabilitation and spare parts, (17.2%). Although
NPC is exempt from import duties, it has paid oil
NPC achieved a 7% rate of return in 1992; and, it did   taxes (about -P3 billion per year) which were not
not require additional budgetary transfers, although it  included in its tariffs, because an earlier Supreme
added expenses when it bought back $132 million of   Court decision exonerated it from paying these taxes.
its foreign debt. Moreover, NPC's net income    Although this exemption has been appealed, it is
increased from minus R3.1 billion in 1991 to P4.6   expected to be reconfirmed by the Supreme Court by
billion in 1992. Nevertheless, NPC equity needs to be   in the second half of 1993. This would allow NPC to
increased to support the large investment planned, and    substantially imnprove its cash position by avoiding
the Congress approved  a P3 billion equity infusion    future payments and collecting overdue tax refunds
from the OPSF surplus for 1993, as well as 10% of   amounting to fil1 billion. In case the tax exemption
the revenues for the next five years from  the   is not confirmed, the tariff will be increased
Philippine Amusement and Casino Corporation (about   automatically, based on the existing fuel adjustment
P300 mfillion per year). In April 1993, ERB ruled in   system. In the future, the rate of retur covenant will
favor of NPC's previous two tariffs, which will allow    include any taxes to be paid by the Corporation.
it to collect about P5 bilion in future bills. Further,
the January 1992 tariff increase of P0.23/kWh was
not only confirmed but an additional P10.0557/kWh
hike was approved by ERB (which would have raised
the NPC rate of return to 10% in 1992).
Capital Expenditure Program
5.8        NPC's capital expenditures have been
very low, averaging just P17 billion a year during
1989-91, due to delays in environmental approvals and
NPC's slow implementation and deteriorating finanial
condition. However, all pending projects have been
approved and are now under construction. Thus,
investment increased to P 13.5 billion in 1992 and is
expeted to average about P40 billion a year between
1993-97 (see Figure 5. 1).  This excludes private
sector investments in BOT projects that are estimated
at P65 billion for 1993-97 (Table 5.2). To achieve its



-26 -
*  . .   ...     .. .   ~~~~~~~TOTAL. :. :z . OF 93'  .1994    19.95   :1996   .19r97
13-97    TOTAL --. .
OPERA2IN~~ CM! FLOW  **..       12.13    ~6-9.12158        2369   2568      956    37221
LMSS
Am~~~ktisa~~~~~ora   . . ~~~~602.03   -31-.-SI   76-64.  322    112 13198  :'13340
20TAL. -DZB BERvrct. -96177    50.32 ~1243,8. 1936j6  20925' 21065  -.22382
c~~.W4~s CSP~t*~ ~xcl-.C04R  (+  ~     22-   1         44. 240  .233  -Is                ?~
Aeuets/Lab4llb4.s .  ~ ~~ -600    0.32    118    "107'   116      125  1..
Xn~ea    Olb 0  1eAfao na)    .         102S33           1000. .4.20o.: 4000...15 
TiaR 46.sM~ Diien.'ad56                                  8       97  .* 104-  ..I111.11.          2
Q~~~1~~er Cash Eipans.. ~~~~~~~~1589        08'2%  1589        0               0        O..  0
* ~~RT ThT~~~NAL C/ISN OUERATZOH  ~~~~~~    .  4586    244O   45,62   .4'551    80  31     55
*   CAIflTAL tP~I~U~              2 *
Apbridi-litibb:-.1                7707    40 4   19335 21360   115 160               66.:
... ..                                          W~~~~~~~~678  .8A. 4- $5 10071 ::-1,6215.  16048   5439
Otbgr (Reh~~~b. Entin.. & Oth~~~).* . 34.03.    18.....  577  ... 8301  .94 .722.7.8.
~!? T~I Z   RM~CED                    .2 14507    76,0h279 1               4939 4G*0 -    2293    213589
..  .. . .. .        . .                        .     ..    .....51 9.  ..~3   1......   .....3 0 3 8 8   6
L.. an ... ..... .. c. .. .....               .    .     .0.. O..0.                                .  .
LoAid                                                      i.;g~t1l  ,602 "4   :           VW556  27    112 230,
F~~~rai~~~n Lbana to be ~~~~~~~~~ . 38997  .  0   2690~~~ .      . .76   1..45. . . . .. .....
....p.. e.  . e ... ...            .          4 98    3 .2.15         . 4 ...... ...8  2.....   . 373:.
. . ...dvidnd).wul  be24, wic  is satisfacory.Ne
5.1   NP'sfutrefinncs ad ts apcit t          inernl ashgeeraio  woldfinnc  moe han25
impemnt  n  nvstmntprora    wll  epndon              f apialinestens rom195 owads an  wul
whether it reaches the proposed  8%  rate of return  improve dramatically  by  1997, when  most of the~~~~~~. .......... 
(para. 5.12).   Under the  covenant, NPC's gross  rescheduledk.    loans: wilb    ad  eAusMfhg
internal cash generation during  1993-97 (Table 5.2)  interest~~~... rae  (mor. thn 8   real),....local.. borrowing....
would be about~. 69%  of........  its.. caitl.xpndtuesad.imte   tosom           shor.ter   lon.ndbnsfo.bu
its net internal cash generation (after debt service,  P5 billion (2.6%).  Most financing0i 21expected to
working ~CApiaHnes.n  theRpaymet+ RD S   of.taxes and       come from% foeg  la,patclal3uple  ceis



-27 -
On-going loans will provide P52 billion (27.2%  of   operating expenditures and have an adequate margin
capital expenditures), loans been negotiated account   to service its debt. Agreement was also reached at
for P46 billion (24.1%) and other loans being    negotiations that unless the Bank accepts otherwise.
prepared or discussed represent P37 billion (19.4% of   NPC may incur additional debt only if its debt service
capital expeuditures). In the event these loans are not   ratio exceeds 1.3 of its proiected debt service
confirmed, some subprojects would have to be    obliaations'.
postponed. This is likely to affect lower priority
projects, given the magnitude of the proposed
investments. Government contributions of about iP1                 AVERAGE TARIFF
billion a year support generation and transmission             --
systems in small islands and rural areas.                .. _   _    - - _
2.4  -                 __
Foreign Exchange Exposure                            E         ,
5.11       Nearly all NPC loans (96%) are foreign,   g   .   -
totalling almost $3 billion equivalent in 12 currencies  0._=
by the end of 1992. Yen-denominated loans represent       0    -
56% of the total (excluding the fracdon in yen in the
Bank and ADB  currency pools).   Unfavorable                    ia ,n. .       .
variadons in exchange rates will have a significant             C P&     . C Iu
impact on NPC's cash finances and its capitalization.
However, since these exchange rates are very difficult    Figure 5.2
to forecast, the ESP endorsed the establishment of an
automadc indexing mechanism  to compensate for   5.13         NPC's assets are valued every fouwe years
changes in exchange rates (para. 5.14).           and are revalued during the interim years to reflect the
changes due to infladon and exchange rate fluctuations
Future Fnances                                    on fixed assets purchased from different countries
(para. 3.12). As a result substantial tariff hikes were
5.12       A summary of NPC's projected financial   approved and bulk power tariffs are higher that those
performance is given in Table 5.3. Projections are   of other regional udlides. Tariff increases aggregating
based on an average annual growth rate of about 8%    to 10% in real terms are forecast for the period 1993-
in energy sales from  1993-97 (which assumes the    97, resuldng in tariffs which are somewhat higher
elimination of existing outages), and on Qiie capital   than the estimated long-term marginal cost.
expenditures of NPC's long-term power development
program. NEDA's GDP projection and NPC's
generation forecast assume a faster growth (about 2%
points). Detailed financial projections based on a
computer model tailored to NPC finances are available
in the Project File and are summarized in Annex 12.
Financial assumptions are presented in Annex 14.
Under the previous loan agreements NPC was
required to earn an annual rate of return of at least
8% of the average net value of revalued fixed assets
in operation, and to maintain a debt service ratio of
over 1.3. These covenants would be retained under
the proposed loan, but would be based on a rate of
return after taxes. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that starting in 1993. NPC will achieve an
after-tax rate of return on its net revalued fixed assets
in operation not lower than 8%. It is particularly
important to ensure NPC's capacity to cover its cash



- 28 -
TUblI  5.3   Future Financial Perfotiace - (Bllion  F)
1993   1994    1995   1997
Total Operating Revenues          44,288  57.542  67,250 102.684
..Tatai9parating Exp*1i"*         35.874  47.515  55.749  70.338
..  .et. .Income                   4.525   4.484   4.841  10,866
Cash Available From Operatitos     4.562   4.551.  8.182  13.016
TotaL Investment                  32.513  41.690  38.004  36.912
Borrowing                         21,627  33,765  27,952  25,$91
Rate Base.                        103.614 125.866 144.458 180.209
Total Assets                     207,163 240,683 269,832 342,25e
Total Long-T8rm Debt (Net)        85.117 115.798 '134.212.172.821
Total Equity                      54.473  55.948  65.330  92.349
Electricity Sold.- TWh,               25      30      32      38
BOT INUSg      '      .             1.74    1.95    2.07    2.34
Rate of Raturn-Revalued Assets '     8.1X    8.0X   ,8 8 Ox  8.02
:.S8elf-.Fitan in6 Rbtio 2l         15.61   12.2X  20.2Z  42.1t
--.  - lDebt. Servi;e''Coverage  0)  .1.37    1.24    1.39    1.69
' Debt /(Debt plus 'Equity)  41         61:    67J    67Z    65Z
tkoking Ratib  5J                     63Z    64X    642    69X
' Cur9,ent Ratito 6.1 .    '482  ' 43X'   44:   .469X .
Acooonta Roceivable (days)           .38     33      34     , 33
.Ongoif & Proposed EOTs/NFC's Capbx  66.5%   71.9K   71.0X   50.3X
. Oi perating Income less Taxes on average fixed assets iX operation,
2] Internal generation divided by 3-year average capital expenditures
] 3 Oprating cash flow divided by debt service
4] Long-term debt4 divided y long-term debt plus total equity.
5J Operating expenditures (excluding depreciation) on operating revenues.
6] Cuteent Asaets divided by current liabilities.
5.14         The establishment of automatic monthly    tariffs in relation to all fuel costs and purchased
tariff increases indexed to purchased power and all    energy  and  (b) the  presentation  to  ERB  of a
fuel expenses (which represent 82%  of NPC's cash           satisfactory application to introduce demand charges to
operating expenditures) will result in a continuous         MERALCO. Agreement was reached at negotiations
updating of NPC tariffs and substantially reduce the    that NPC will implement energv demand charges for
problems of recent years. ERB has allowed NPC to    all its customers not later than December 26. 1993. In
implement a  tariff increase  of R0.18/kWh  from            addition, an automatic tariff increase to compensate
March 26 and P0.21/kWh from June 26 that would    for the  effect of higher exchange  rates (on  the
achieve a rate of return of 8%  in 1993. Further tariff    principal payments) was also approved by NPC and
improvements have already been approved by NPC's    would be applied when the exchange rate exceeds the
Board and included in the ESP are: (a) a monthly total    value of P28/dollar estimated for 1993.
fuel cost adjustment system to reflect in NPC tariffs
the changes  in  fuel costs and  purchased  energy          5.15          Annex   12  provides  NPC   financial
(NPC's Board has approved an adjustment for oil    projections and Annex  13 presents key monitoring
prices  which  is already  in  effect); (b) a  tariff    indicators. Under the covenanted rate of return and
restructuring to implement demand charges to reduce         assumptions   stated   above,   NPC's  financial
peak  demand  (para.  1.18).    The  following  are    performance will be fully satisfactory (key financial
conditions for loan effectiveness: (a) the awnroval    indicators  are  summarized  in  Table  5.3).    In
(which may be an interim authorization by ERB) of an        particular, its debt service ratio will exceed  1.24
automatic tariff indexing  mechanism  to chanae NPC         times, its working ratio will average 66%  and its



- 29 -
operational ratio  will be  about 83%.    NPC's    Monitoring and Evaluation
debt/equity ratio will remain below 57 %, which is still
satisfactory.                                            5.17         NPC considerably improved its planning
and management information systems during the past
Financial Sensitivity Analysis                           few years, developing a fully computerized system for
projecting demand, capital expenditures and finances.
5.16         Financial sensitivity  analyses indicate    However, given its large capital expenditures and their
that the 8%  covenant would provide a satisfactory    impact on its financial viability, NPC's forecasting
financial situation for NPC even under two extreme    systems for load demand, capital expenditures, debt
scenarios, a substantial reduction in sales (to 3% p.a.)    and financial projections should be further improved.
and a two-year delay in the total investment program.    For these purposes (para. 4.12), NPC will furnish to
If NPC's higher growth in demand materializes, its   the Bank by June 30 and December 31 of each year
financial situation will improve (due to higher load    updated financial reports for the previous two years
ratios), but if the financing of capital expenditures    and projections for the next five years for its capital
does not materialize, outages will continue. NPC         expenditures, borrowing and debt service, fiancial
needs to review carefully its investment program and    projections (Annex  12) and monitoring  indicators
all BOT projects contracted before committing new        (Annex 13).
plants or signing new BOT projects to ensure that its
capacity reserve would be maintained at about 25%-
30%.
V/    Based on a reasonable annual forecast of the debt service ratio during the terms of the debt to be incurred. The
debt service ratio is calculated by dividing NPC's net revenues after all cash expenditures (other than debt
service and capital expenditures) by the sum of the principal and operational interest of the existing and proposed
debt.



- 30-
VI. Project Justification
Economic Analysis                                  if this figure was estimated to be only $300 for one
year, (or $150 milUion per year during the additional
6.1         To alleviate the acute power shortage in   two years required to construct any other plant), the
the country, the Government has decided to increase   economic rate of return jump to 136% (Annex 15).
substantialy the generating capacity for the Luzon grid,
by almost 1,000 MW over 1993-95. These generating    6.3       The benefits from the rehabilitated Bataan
plants have been contracted with the private sector on a    units are substantial in terms of improved plant
BOT or BTO basis under take-or-pay contracts. To    capacity, availability and heat rate.  Rehabilitation
achieve short lead times, these plants would involve    would enhance the life of these units by at least 10
internal combustion turbines or diesel engines operating    years. It is not possible to predict when these plants
on fuel/ bunker oil or diesel. Part of the plants (600    would cease to function if the rehabilitation is not
MW)  are  combined  cycle  units  that can  be    undertaken; hence a quantitative analysis of the benefits
economically used for base load.  This "fast-track"    has not been attempted. However, the cost of US$27
expansion program would normally not be the least   million to achieve reliable capacity of 225 MW  is
cost solution; however, given the delays in other   considered to be economically justified, since it would
projects (para. 2.6 (b)), these plants are the only   cost about US$ 200 million to replace these plants with
alternative to avoid in 1993-94 the serious and    new ones.
widespread outages experienced in 1992. They are
more expensive than base plants and are justified when    6.4  Risks. Although  the  Government is
compared with the large adverse economic effects that   forcefully pursuing a large expansion of its power
outages have on the economy. In order to facilitate the    generation from the private sector, its implementation
transmission of power from the proposed generating    could be delayed on financial grounds. This risk is
plants, NPC has developed a least-cost transmission    minimized by the number of projects and the diversity
system expansion and reinforcement program.        of the contractors. Should extensive delays occur the
power supply situation would continue to remain
6.2         An economic analysis was undertaken for   critical and the consequent curtailment of demand
the generating plants proposed in the Bataan/Subic Bay    would have an adverse impact on the economy. The
area and the associated transmission expansion program    risk of delays in the implementation of the project's
fmanced by the project. The economic analysis (Annex   transmission program  has been minimized by an
15) includes the following cost data for the generating    advanced and effective procurement program  being
plants contracted on the BOT/BTO basis: (a) the fixed    monitored monthly by the Bank. There is also a risk
capacity fee - P/kW; (b) the fixed operation fee; (c) the   that tariffs would not be increased in the future.
estimated annual generation from each unit GWh; (d)   However, this risk is reduced because of the recent
the annual fuel cost and (e) the variable annual   decisions of the Energy Regulatory Board approving
operation and maintenance fees. All costs have been   the principles for NPC tariffs and because of the
expressed in constant 1993 prices. The 0 & M after   automatic tariff adjustments to  be  implemented.
the completion of the BOT contracts is assumed at 2%  Moreover, the new administration in the Philippines
of capital investment. The benefit of the program was    has targeted energy problems as its top priority.
computed in terms of revenues from the incremental
energy sales (assuming a 3.5% transmission loss)
which were estimated on the basis of NPC's new tariff
for Luzon remaining constant in real terms from 1993
onwards. The internal rate of return was computed as
11% (Annex 15). This analysis underestimates the
project benefits, because tariffs are expected to increase
in real terms, and because the large economic damages
resulting from power outages are not included. As
mentioned earlier, economic damage of the outages has
been estimated at $600-$800 million per annum. Even



31 -
VII. Agreements Reached and Recomendation
7.1        The following actions were taken prior to    (b)   Not later than October 1 each year, the
Board presentation:                                            Government, NPC and the Bank would
review NPC's PDP, and that NPC and
(a)   The Government approved an Energy                 the Government would take the necessary
Sector Plan satisfactory to the Bank               actions  to  implement the  review's
(para. 1.11);                                     recommendations (para. 2.09);
(b)   NPC  approved an automatic monthly           (c)   The Government, NPC and the Bank
indexing system to change its tariffs in           would review not later than December
relation to variations in petroleum prices         31, 1993 the recommendations of the
(paras. 1.17 and 5.14);                            "Efficiency and Operational Improvement
Study" and the study recommendations
(c)   NPC implemented a tariff increase to               would be implemented in accordance with
ensure compliance with the 8% rate of              a timetable to be agreed with the Bank
return in 1993 (para. 5.14).                      (para. 3.7);
(d)   NPC  would  obtain  not later  than
7.2        The following are conditions for loan               December 31, 1993 all environmental
effectiveness:                                                 clearances for the rehabilitation of the
Bataan thermal plant (para. 4.22);
(a)   The approval of an automatic tariff
indexing mechanism  to change NPC's          (e)   Starting in fiscal year 1993, NPC would
tariffs in relation to all fuel costs and          achieve an after-tax rate of return on its
purchased energy (para. 5.14); and                 net revalued fixed assets in operation of
at least 8% (para. 5.12);
(b)   The presentation to ERB of a satisfactory
application to introduce demand charges
to MERALCO (para. 5.14).               7.5         Agreement was reached with NPC that:
(a)   Not later than December 26, 1993, NPC
7.3        As a condition for disbursements for the            would  restructure  its  tariffs  and
Bataan rehabilitation component, NPC would submit for          implemented energy demand charges for
Bank  approval a  satisfactory  rehabilitation  and            all its customers (para. 5.14);
environmental protection plan (para. 4.21).
(b)   Not later than December 31, 1993 NPC
would implement improved rules and
7.4        Agreement  was  reached  with  the                  procedures to facilitate private sector
Government and NPC that:                                       participation  in  energy  generation,
including standardized bidding documents
(a)   The Government, NPC and Bank would                 satisfactory to the Bank (para. 1.16).
exchange views on the implementation of
the ESP (para. 1.10);



- 32 -
(c)   Not later than December 31, 1993, NPC         (g)   NPC would submit monthly and quarterly
would complete and incorporate in its              reports on  project procurement and
accounting a satisfactory valuation of its         implementation,  respectively,  and
fixed assets in operation, and annually            semiannual projections of its power
thereafter revalue its fixed assets using a        demand,  capital  expenditures  and
methodology satisfactory to the Bank               financial statements (para. 4.12).
(para. 3.12).
(h)  In case resettlement is required, NPC
(d)   Within six months of the end of the fiscal         would take adequate measures acceptable
year (i.e. July I of each year), NPC               to the Bank for the resettlement and
would send to the Bank an audited report           rehabilitation of all persons involuntarily
of its annual financial statements prepared        displaced as a result of the project (para.
by independent auditors acceptable to the          4.22);
Bank (para. 3.15);
(i)   NPC would incur additional debt only if
(e)   It would maintain adequate insurance               its forecasted debt service is at least 1.3
(para. 3.17);                                      (para. 5.12).
(f)   Not later than December 31, 1993, NPC
would appoint consultants (according to
terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank) to prepare an action plan to
establish the appropriate methods and
specifications for the optimal and
environmentally sound rehabilitation of its
Bataan thermal power plan (para. 4.7);
Recommendation:
Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$110 million equivalent, for a period of
20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate. The borrower will be the National Power
Corporation with the guarantee of the Republic of the Philippines.



ANNEX1I- Page Iof 6
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Energy Sector Action Plan (January 1993) and Implementation Status (April 1993)
IssueslAreas of Actien             Required Action                                             Imp!ementatlon Ageacy/S e|e Stat  ft cal-Apl 3)l
A. GENERALI
INSTITUTIONAL
1) Energy Sector                 Establish die DepamntM of Energy (DOE)                       PresidentlCongress. Completed in December    Done.
Coordination                                                                                .    .Done. ?Mapiof toppost po                                        aldy fle. Addioio
Formalize DOE organizaion.                                  DOE Secretary. Marcb 1993                   budgetay rqiremes pending approval by DBM
2) Privatization                 Propose dear congressional policy statement on private sector  ECC/President. November 1992              Done
involvement in energy projects.
a) NPCIPower Sector              Complete OEA-commissioned study of privatization options.    OEA-Price Waterbouse. November 1992        Done
Submission of privatization plan.                           DOE-NPC. September 1993.                    DOE is establishing  ter-agency task force to
formulate priva2ron stegy.
Approval of privadzation plan.                              Cabinet. March 1994.                      l__
Continue DOT approach for new projects; conduct bidding and  NPC. June 1993.                            Bidding postponed to October 1993. due to local
come up with short list for the 900 MW and 200 MW BOT coal                                              oposidon.
plants for LAzon and Mindanao.
Complete evauation of bids.                                 October 1993                                10 contracts for 2.300 MW already signed with the
private sector, other than the ABB BTOs (600 MW).
Awarding of contracts.                                      December 1993                               all are BOTs contramm.
Selective privatization of existng plants. Invite bids/produce  NPC. September 1993                     Tender docwnents being compkted folowintg se
short list for private operations of Calaca I and Malaya units.                                         contract awarded for dhe Nap Plant.
Awarding of operating contracts.                            December 1993
Sale of units.                                               1995
Announce standard BOT offer for small hydro units.          NPC. June 1993                            r
b) PNOC                          Complete decenualization of PNOC management of subsidiaries.    PNOC. February 1993                     Done
Decision to privatize Petron.
June 1993                                  Done. Financial advisor appointed in Apri 1993.
Finalize privatization strategy for subsidiaries.           September 1993                              Ongoing
Cabinet approval of recommended privatization strategy.     March 1994
Stan implementation of privatization strat.                 PNOC-COP. June 1994.



ANNEX I - Page 2 of 6
Reqired Action                                            I    I         A genc ISmdhale                Shim (by ta-Arui 1993)
LusAea f Adbn                                                                                                                             I 
c) NEA RECs                      Develop gudelines for sale/mnerge of RECs.                   September 1993                              To be done by the iter-aecy task force in power
s2oOr pZivtinhomL
Prseation to dte Office of the President of tdc request for  September 1993                             Peading in Congress.
increased NEA capitalizaton.
3) Oil Industry                  Congresional policy statement on oil industry dereguation    PresidentCongress. December 9. 1992.        Done (DOE Law)
Deregulation                  Complete ERB Energy Pricing Study.                           ERB/IDP. June 1993                         Final sudy isd in Mach 1993. DOE analysmg the
recommenrdations.
Complete industry cost structure study.                      DOEIK & M. August 1993                     Draft fnal report submited. K & M would expand
some pams of dre stendy by June 1993.
Recommend presidentil endorseent of bil amending OPSF law    DOEIERBIOP. September 1993                 Congresiona; heang on HE No. 247 ongoing.
to effect automatize price adjmczients.
Set maximum oil indt  rate of retum                          ERB/Oil Companies. September 1993          Done. ERB set a 10.6% avaage ROR for oil
companies (Apri 16. 1993)
Submit program for oil decotol and other dereguation        DOE. 1996.                                  DOE has established a Task Force on de _gulto
acdvides.
Approval of deregulation program.                           Cabinet. 1996.                                                                                   S
Recommend presidential endorsement of ERB charter to allow  ERB/OP. 1996.
decontrol of oil prices.
Deregulate dealership activities (deregulation measures non-price    DOE. 1996.
reated would be advanced whenever feasible).
Remove inter-fuel price subsidies.                          DOE/EB. 1996.
Draft bill rationalizing die tariff tax component of petroleum  DOEIERB/OP. 1996.
product prces.
Recommend presidenial endorsement of draft bill.            DOE/OP. 1996.
Submit petroleum inmrt/export liberalization schedule.      DOEIERB. 1996.
4) Single Price-regulatory    Legislation placing NPC and RECs under ERB prce regulation.     Congress/President.                         Done. DOE Law. In opeadon.
body for utilities



ANNEX 1 - Page 3 of 6
Issues/Areas of Acion            | Required Action                                            | bnpementation Agency/Schedule            |Satas (by endApril 1"93)
5) More efficient approval   Presidential directive to ErC. DAR, DA, NEDA and DENR to         ECC. DAR, DA. NEDA, DENR.                  Done. DOE seeking technical assistance for a study of
system  for energy            designate site reservations tor energy projects.             November 1992.                             optimal power plant sitng and fuel options for 1999-
projects.                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2005.
Agreement between DENR & RDC regarding approval              DENR/RDC. June 1993                        Ongoing
requirements and dme lmit for action.
Agree to approve power projects on a program basis instead of  NPC/NEDA. June 1993                      Completed March 1993.
per individual projects.
NPC to develop standard DOT contracts for various power plant    NPC/NEDA. September 1993               Model conttacts for coal, diesel and gas tuebines
technologies.                                                                                           already developed.
Approval of standard contracts.                             NEDA-ICC. One month after completion of
contract by NPC.
B. POWER SECTOR
1) Avallabilityand               Ensure completion of fast-act projects.                      NPC/DOE. October 1993                      3 HOT contacts in operation.
reliability of supply.        Ensure implementation of power development program.          NPC/DOE. Ongoing                           lbe PDP approved by the ICC and presnd to the
Cabinet in May 1993.
Submit plan to rhabilitate or retire/replace ageing plants.  NPC. December 1993                         Ongoing. Rehabilitation of Sucat m ongoing.
Constants being selected for Bataan Ihermal.
Evaluate and appwve NPC plan and allocate funding for       NEDA. Janatry 1994                          Done. OPSF and PAGCOR grants approved.
technical assistance.
Adopt rehabilitation or retirement plan for old plants.     NPC/NEDA. June 1994



ANNEX I - Page 4 of 6
| Issues/Areas of Action            Required Action                                            Implementton Agency/Schedule              Status (by ceil-April 193)
2) NlC's Financial              Conduct more effective public informadon program on the need  NPC/Cabinet. Oct. Dec. 1992.           Ongoing.
Viability                    for NPC rate increase.
Decision on acceptable rame of return base methodology.   BRB. September 1993.                      Done. Febnaiy 1993
Motion for eady resoludon by the Supreme Court of NPC fuel-  NPC. May 1993                          Case sdll pending with the Supreme Count.
tax exemption cases.
Approve automatic foreign exchange adjustment fotmula.    NPC. May 1993                             Fonnula to be apphled when the exchange exceeds the
P2U/doHar used for the financial projections.
Implement rate adjustment to meet loan covenants.         NPC. December 1992                        NPC implmenting a satisfacrory tariff increase of
P0.18/kWh from Match 26. 1993 and P0.03/kWh
Develop annual projection of rate increase or decrease investment   NPC. End of each year           additional from July 1993.
and overall financial requirements.
Propose to DBM the level of government equity infusion to  NPC. March each year.                    Approved for 1993.
NPC.
Submission of proposal for annual equity infusion to NPC.  DBM. June each year.                     Done. P3 bilion from OPSF in 1993 approved by RA
7639, in addition of die PI bilUion annually.
Executive support of bill proposing equity infusion to NPC.  ECC/DOF.                               Done.
Complete operational efficiency improvement study.        NPC/Wodd Bank. December 1993.             Fuist Phase report completed in Match 1993. Draft  w
report for Second Phase to be completed by end-June  as
Stan implementation of recommendations.                   NPC. June 1994.                            1993
3) Rate restructuring           Complete nationwide consultation esp. in Bacolod, Cebu and  NPC. August 1993                         Request to be presented soon to the ERB for fast
(Demand charges and             Mindanmo.                                                                                            approval.
Direct Connections).            Implement rate restructuring down to distributon level.    NPC/Cabinet, NEA/RECs. ERB/PUs.           Expected by October 1993, when power supply would
December 1993                             be less radoned.
4) Bataan Nuclear Power    Complete negotiations with Westinghouse. Negotiations           PC-BNPP. December 1992.                   Negotations failed. Other options including BOT
Plant (BNPP).                tenninated due to lack of agreement on prices.                                                       altrnatives are being considerd.
Decision on BNPP operation.                               Cabinet. March 1993                       Postponed to end-1993.
5) Improve electricity          Set limit to distribution loss that can be recovered through tariff.    NEAJERB/ECC. Ongoing         Done. ERB Resolution 91-22 has set to reduce losses
distnbution effciency.                                                                                                            permited in tariffs from 14% to 10% in 5 years.
Presidential endorsenet of anti-pilferage bdil.                                 .                   HB 5569, 1057 and SB 16 are in second readings.
FCC/OP. March 1993
6) Energy-Efficency             Finalize standards for power intensve appliances.          OEA/BPS-DTI. June 1994                    Building efficiency guidelines published March 1993.
Standards.



ANNEX 1 - Page 5 of 6
jIssLusAreas of Action               Required Action                                             Impleraentation Agency/Schedule           Statu (by end-Apri 19I
C. DOWNSTREAM
OPERATIONS
I) Refinery expansion.          Decide price adjustment for non-cmde increases.             ERB. May 1993                              Done. Increases of 12 and 6.5 cemslitker approved in
Octobcr 1992 and April 1993 respectively.
Firm up PNOC expansion plans.                              PNOC/DOE. September 1993.                  Stdies ongoing.
2) Coal ilport                 Implement financial/technical support program for local coal  OEAIECC. January 1994.                   Inital progumm formulated. Seeing fuimlig for some
libealization.               industy.                                                                                               projects.
Reduce volume and tariff restriction                       DOEIERB/NEDA. June 1994.                   Inter-agency coordnatmg mcetngs on CEff sdchme
ongoing; all coals in temporaxy exdusion list until
lune 30, 1996. Arthracite and ligne having a 0%
tariff, and biuminous 10% tariff to 1999 and 5%
thereafter.
3) Institutionalize Energy    Executive endorsement of DOE bill with provisions for         President.                                 Done (DOE Law)
Conservation.                contuadtion of energy conservation program.
Pursue refiling of bill institutionalizing energy conservation.  DOE/Congress. June 1993              DOE crating Task Force and seeking tecni
assistance for a Demand Side Mamgement.   
Recommend Presidential endorsement of bill.                DOE/OP. September 1993.
D. UPSTRE.AM
OPERATIONS
1) Geothermal law to             Recommend presidential endorsement of pending legislation on  DOElPNOC/OP. June 1993                  Senate beatings on SB 423 and 366 in April 1993.
encourage private            geothermal royalties and development.
sector participation.
2) Improved incentives           Recommend presidential endorsement of pending legislation on  DOE/OP. June 1993                       HB 406 for second bearing.
for oil and gas              oil and gas development.
exploration.
Conduct aggressive campaign to attract more oil            DOE. December 1993.
3) Continued exploration          explorationists.
momentum generated
by recent oil
discoveries
4) Promote development           Intensify research and development of alternativelrenewable  DOST-PCIERDIOEA/PNOCINEA.                Ongoing. Guidines are being formulatd for
and utilizaton of            energy technoogies.                                         Ongoing.                                   financing of projects by Government Fnancial
Intisftutions (includinxg financia criteria for biomas
renewable energy             Promote utlization of cost-effective alternative energy systems  OEA/NEA. Ongoing.                     and mini-bydro). Bid specifictons to be completed in
technologies.                 for rual electrircation.                                                                              May 1993.



ANNEX 1- Page 6 of 6
Energy Sector Plan - Proposed Legislation
Issues/Areas of Acn                Required Adion                                             huplenentatonAgency/Scbedule
1) Energy Sector Coordination   Enact legisdation creating the Depamnent of Energy.         President/Congress. (Decembrbr9, 1992)     Done
2) Oil Industry Deregulation.   Enact legisladon amending die OPSP Law.                     December 1993.
3) Single Price-regulatory Body    Included in dhe DOE Law.                                 December 1992.                             Done
for Utilides.
Enact into law ERB charter amendment.                      June 1994
4) NPC Financial Viability.     Approve annual equity infusion to NPC.                      December eacb year.
Enactment of law authorizing OPSF equity infision to NPC.  Decemnber 1992.                            Done
5) Improve electricity          Enact effective anti-power pilferage legisladon.            December 1993.
distribution efficiency.
Enacunent of law audorizing increase in NEA capitalization.  March 1994
6) Rationalize oil prices.       Enact law rtionalizing dte tariff and tax component of petroleum  1996.
products.
7) Energy Conservaion.           Refie and enact law institutionalizing energy conservation.  December 1993.
8) Geothermal law to encourage    Enact new geothenal law.                                  December 1993
private secor panicipation.
Acronysms:
BOR       BuildtOperate-Transfer                                               ERB       Energy Regulatory Board
BPS       Bureau of Product Standards                                          ICC       Invesutent Coordiatng Commit te
COP       Committee on Pmation                                                 IDP       Intmertaonl Developmen Planers
DA        Deparment of Agicultude                                             NEDA    Nauoni Economic d Development Authonmy
DAR       Depatment of Agrarian Reform                                        NPC        National Power Corpoation
DBM       Department of BudgSt and Management                                 OEA        Office of Energy Affairs
DOE       Depatmen of negw                                                     OP        Office of the President
DOP       Deamnt of Fiance                                                    OPSF       Oil Price Subilidaon Fund
DTI       Department of Trde and Ihry                                          PCIERD   Philippe Council for bIdustry and Energy Reearc
DENR    Depnament of Enviomen and Natural Resounrces                           PNOC    Phippine Nadonl Oil Company
DOST    Deprtnent of Science and Technology                                    PUs       Public udlities.
BCC       Energy Coordintg Committee



- 39 -
Annex 2 - Page 1
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Energy Production and Consumption
Table 1 - Trends In Commercial Energy Production
(Million Barrel of Fuel Oil Equivalent-MBFOE)
_____.______________________________________________________________________
Eleotri- Petroleum    Coal   TOTAL         X         X         X
city                                  Electri- Petroleum   Coal
city
1980    30.8       73.0       1.0     104.8      29,4X     69.62      1.0O
1981    32.0       68.5       0.9     101.5      31.6X     67.5X      0.9X
1982    33.5       68.3       1.1    102.9       32.52     66.42      1.1l
1983    37.0       68.2       3.5     108.7      34.02     62.7Z      3.3X
1984    36.5       56.2       5.7      98.4      37.1X     57.1X      5.82
1985    39.3       49.6       8.4      97.2      40.4X     51.0X      8.7X
1986    37.6       52.6       6.2      96.4      39.02     54.62      6.42
1987    39.0       61.3       6.8     107.1      36.42     57.22      6.32
1988    42.3       66.0       8.5     116.9      36.22     56.52      7.32
1989    44.1       74.2       7.2     125.5      35.12     59.12      5.72
1990    45.4       77.7       6.9     130.0      34.92     59.82      5.32
1991    44.5       75.3       9.0     128.8      34.51     58.42      7.02
1992    49.5       79.0      11.3     139.8      35.42     56.52      8.12
1993    54.0       83.3      11.7     149.0      36.32     55.92      7.92
1994    58.7       86.5      17.0     162.2      36.22     53.32     10.52
1995    58.5       88.7      21.4     168.6      34.72     52.62     12.72
1996    68.5       91.7      26.5     186.8      36.72     49.12     14.22
1997    74.7       93.3      31.0     199.0      37.62     46.92     15.62
1998   80.4       100.7      30.8     211.9      37.92     47.52     14.52
1999    86.6      107.3      34.2     228.0      38.02     47.12     15.02
2000    93.2      113.1      40.2     246.5      37.82     45.92     16.32
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Table 2 - Total Energy Consumption by Sources
(MBFOE)
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__-------------------------------------
---------INDIGENOUS ENERGY ----------           ---IMPORTED ENERGY --       TOTAL       X         2
Oil      Coal      Hydro   Geother-  TOTAL        Oil       Coal    TOTAL    CONSUMP- Geothermal Imported
mal                                               TION
1980     3.5        1.0       5.9       3.5      13.9      69.5       0.0      69.5      83.4       4.22     83.32
1981     1.4        0.9       6.4       4.8      13.4      67.2       0.0      67.2      80.6       5.92     83.42
1982     3.0        1.1       6.7       6.3      17.0      65.4       0.0      65.4      82.3       7.62     79.4S
1983     4.7        3.6       5.1       7.0      20.4      64.5       0.9      65.4      85.8       8.2X     76.22
1984     3.5        4.1       9.0       7.8      24.4      52.7       1.6      54.3      78.7       9.92     69.02
1985     2.6        4.4       9.5       8.5      25.0      47.0       4.0      51.0      76.0      11.2Z     67.12
1986     2.9        4.0      10.4       7.9      25.1      46.8       2.2      48.9      74.1      10.72     66.12
1987     1.8        4.3       9.0       7.8      22.8      59,6       2.5      62.1      84.9       9.22     73.12
1988     1.9        4.8      10.8       8.4      25.8      64.1       3.7      67.9      93.7       8.92     72.42
1989     1.7        4.2      11.2       9.2      26.3      72.5       3.0      75.5    101.8        9.02     74.22
1990     1.5        4.6      10.5       9.4      26.0      76.2       2.3      78.5    104.5        9.02     75.12
1991     1.0        5.7       8.9       9.9      25.5      74.3       3.3      77.6    103.1        9.62     75.22
1992     2.7        4.9      10.7       9.9      28.2      76.4       6.4      82.7    110.9        8.92     74.62
1993     4.7        5.2      11.0      11.7      32.6      79.1       6.5      85.6     118.2       9.92     72.42
1994     4.0        7.2      11.0      13.4      35.6      82.5       9.8      92.3    127.9       10.52     72.12
1995     3.4        9.3      11.0      15.5      39.2      85.3      12.1      97.4    136.6       11.32     71.32
1996     2.9        9.7      11.0      16.8      40.4      88.8      16.8    105.6    146.0        11.52     72.32
1997     2.5       10.3      11.0      22.2      46.0      90.2      20.7     110.9    156.9       14.2X     70.72
1998     2.1       13.4      11.0      26.4      52.9      98.6      17.4     116.0     168.9      15.62     68.72
1999     1.8       13.4      11.0      29.1      55.3    105.5       20.8    126.3    181.6        16.02     69.62
2000     1.5       15.4      12.8      28.4      58.1    111.6       24.7    136.3    194.4        14.62      70.12
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-------------------------------------



- 40 -
Annex  2  - Page 2
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Table 3 - Total Electricity Supply
(MBFOE)
-----BY ENERGY SOURCE -----                      ---------BY PRODUCERS ------------
Potro-    Coal       Hydro    Geother-   TOTAL       NPC      Private     NEA    Industrios  TOTAL
loum                           mal                         Utilities               (Self)
1980   20.87        0.31      6.07       3.58     30.83     25.80       0.67       0.50      3.87      30.83
1981   20.03        0.22      6.42       4.78     31.45     27.57       0.63       0.38      3.46      32.04
1982   19.51       0.75       6.51      6.10      32.87     29.84       0.56       0.16      2.90      33.46
1983   22.39       0.98       5.12       7.03     35.52     32.23       4.76                 2.08      39.07
1984   16.31        1.87      9.10       7.81     35.09      32.29      2.89       0.07      1.26      36.52
1985   13.70        5.77      9.57       8.50     37.54     32.27       6.98                 1.32      40.58
1986   13.04       4.56      10.37      7.89      35.86     33.23       4.36                 1.32      38.90
1987   17.66       3.87       9.05       7.81     38.39     36.13       1.37       0.15      1.39      39.04
1988   18.05       4.45      10.80       8.35     41.65      39.52      1.24       0.09      1.46      42.31
1989   18.91       4.16      11.18       9.17     43.42      41.53      0.81       0.06      1.70      44.09
1990   21.44        3.33     10.45      9.42      44.64     42.76       0.72       0.06      1.86      45.39
1991   22.09       3.35       8.87       9.93     44.24     44.15       0.29       0.06      1.70      46.20
1992   23.05       4.15      10.70       9.92     47.82      47.40      0.37       0.06      1.70      49.53
=___________________________________________________.._____________________________________________________



- 41 -
Annex 3 - Page I
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
NPC's Power Demand
Table 1- Gross Domestic Product and Power Demand
YEAR     GDP        X      POWER    POWER  POPULA- POPULA-    KWh    Energy
1985   Increase   SALES    RATE     TION     TION     Per   Intensity   --- % INCREASE p.a. ---
Prices                    CONSTANT           GROWTH  Person   GWH per
PRICE                     (For   Million   Power    Power      KWh
(Billion          1000 GWh          Million            Total   P. GDP    Sales    Rates     per
Pesos)                              Persons          Popula-   (1985             1985    Person
11            Mid-Year           tion)   Prices)            Prices
1979    579.50             12.55     1.04    47.04              267     21.7
1980    609.77     5.22%   14.03     1.37    48.10     2.32     292     23.0    11.8%    30.9t   9.38X
1981    630.64     3.42%   14.92     1.47    49.54     3.02     301     23.7      6.3%     7.62    3.222
1982    653.47     3.62%   16.00     1.38    51.28     3.52    312      24.5      7.32    -6.4%    3.602
1983    665.72     1.87%   17.09     1.69    52.06     1.5%     328     25.7      6.82    22.5%    5.22X
1984    616.96    -7.32%   17.01     1.70    53.35     2.52    319      27.6    -0.5%      0.62   -2.902
1985    571.88    -7.31X   17.14     1.70    54.67     2.52     314     30.0      0.82     0.52   -1.642
1986    591.42     3.42X   17.65     1.49    56.00     2.42     315     29.8      2.92   -12.52    0.492
1987    619.71     4.78X   19.34     1.36    57.36     2.42     337     31.2      9.62    -8.82    7.012
1988    658.46     6.25%   21.18     1.29    58.72     2.4%     361     32.2      9.5%    -4.82    6.982
1989    698.38     6.062   22.24     1.17    60.10     2.32     370     31.9      5.02    -9.3%    2.62%
1990    715.15     2.40%   22.92     1.25    61.48     2.3%     373     32.0      3.02     6.62    0.702
1991    707.86    -1.02%   23.60     1.39    62.87     2.32     375     33.3      3.02             0.712
1992    725.55     2.502   23.91             64.26     2.22     372     33.0      1.32            -0.87X
1993    761.83     5.002   27.18             65.65     2.22     414     35.7    13.72             11.25X
1994    804.49     5.602   29.53             67.04    2.12      440     36.7      8.72             6.402
1995    849.55     5.602   31.99             68.42     2.1X     467     37.7      8.32             6.13X
1996    897.12     5.602   34.59             69.80     2.02     495     38.6      8.12             5.99X
1997    947.36     5.60%   37.40             71.17     2.0%     525     39.5      8.12             6.05X
1998   1000.41     5.60%   40.44             72.54     1.92     557     40.4      8.12             6.10X
1999   1056.44     5.60%   43.72             73.89     1.9%    592      41.4      8.12             6.15%
2000   1115.60     5.60%   47.28             75.22     1.8%     629     42.4      8.12             6.21X
2001   1178.07     5.601   50.82             76.54     1.82     664     43.1      7.52             5.64X
80-85        -1.3%              4.1X              2.62             1.4X     5.4%     4.1%     4.5%    -1.3%
85-90         4.6X              6.0%              2.42             3.5%     1.3%     6.0%    -6.02     4.6%
--  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 42 -
Annex 3 - Page 2
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
TABLE 2 - Main Assumptions for Power Demand
------Actual  ----                  -------------- Assumptions  ----------------
Period:       1990/85   1992/87   1991/90  1992/91   1993/92   1994/93   1995/94   2000/95   2005/00  2010/05
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__-------------------------------------
LUZON:                                                           X Growth Rates
Low C"se                                                                                    5.43X    6.232             6.502        7.252        6.50S        5.50S
Base Case                                 5.742        4.90X    4.345          3.152        6.235        7.23 X   7.50X    8.25X                 7.505        6.50X
High Case                                                                                   6.33      X  8.732         9.00X    9.75            9.002        8.00S
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-------------------
Year          1989         1990         1991        1992         1993         1994         1995         2000         2005         2010
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-------------------
Power Losses  2                               7.82         7.42         7.42        7.22         7.52         7.52         7.5Z         7.52         7.52         7.52
Load Factor  2                               70.82        72.02        70.92      7i.0X   71.52             71.52        71.52         71.52        71.52        71.52
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-------------------------------------
-----Actual ----                    -------------- Assumptions  ----------------
Period:   1990/85   1992/87   1991/90   1992/91  1993/92   1994/93   1995/94   2000/95   2005/00   2010/05
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__-------------------------------------
VISAYAS                                                          2 Growth Rates
Low Case                                                                                   13.702       13.002        8.502         6.502        5.502        4.00X
Base Case                                 9.162        8.912       11.992   12.142         14.70      X 14.00       X 9.502         7.502        6.50X        5.00X
High Case                                                                                  16.202       15.502       11.002         9.00z        8.00S        6.502
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-------------------
Year          1989         1990         1991        1992         1993         1994         1995         2000         2005         2010
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-------------------
Power Losses  2                              11.62        11.42        10.72        9.52       10.02        10.02        10.02          8.02         7.02         7.02
Load Factor  2                               64.52        61.62        68.52      59.32        65.62        67.42        68.02        69.0%         69.02        69;05
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-------------------------------------
------Actual ----                   -------------- Assumptions  ----------------
Period: 1990/85 1992/87 1991/90 1992/91 1993/92 1994/93 1995/94 2000/95 2005/00 2010/05
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__-------------------------------------
MINDANAO                                                         2 Growth Rates
Low Case                                                                                   58.16 X  10.702           10.002         7.002        7.005        7.002
Base Case                                 5.662       -1.272      -7.74X -14.72Z   60.162               11.702       11.002         8.00 X   8.002            8.002
High Case                                                                                  61.162       12.702       12.002         9.002        9.002        9.002
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-------------------
Year          1989         1990         1991        1992         1993         1994         1995         2000         2005         2010
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
Power Losses  2                               4.82         5.02         5.12        5.42         5.52         5.52         5.52         5.52         5.52         5.52
Load Factor  S                               71.52        72.22        70.02    70.02          70.02        70.02        70.0X         70.02        70.02        70.02
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-------------------------------------



- 43 -
Annex 3 - Page 3
Philippines
Power Transmison and Rehabilitation Project
Table 3 - Luzon Power Demand (Base Case)
Year    --- TOTAL SALES ---            Of Which MEPALCO           Total    Total    Load      Peak
Energy   Energy   Factor   Demand
GWM     Annual    Avg.       GWh    Annual       X     Losses    Gene-
Increase  3-year            Increase  on NPC       I     ration       X       MW
p.a.   Incr. p.a.           p.a.    Sales                GWM
1976      2211                         6931                         6.41    2361      16.21    1659
1977      2085      -5.7X              7631      10.11             10.22    2323      15.5X    1709
1978      3519      68.81              8181       7.2X              5.7Z    3731      23.9X    1780
1979     11210    218.62               8914       9.01   79.52    10.31   12504       74.11    1926
1980     12164       8.5X              9096       2.01   74.81      7.31   13115      72.01    2074
1981     12690       4.3Z              9394       3.32   74.01      7.11   13666      70.11    2225
1982     13126       3.41     5.41    9747        3.81   74.31      8.81   14398      69.51    2364
1983     13908       6.01     4.61   10493        7.71   75.42      9.12   15294      70.51    2478
1984     13245      -4.81      1.4X    9759      -7.0X   73.71      9.61   14655      70.3X    2374
1985     13136      -0.81     0.01    9827        0.7X   74.82      9.11   14449      71.41    2311
1986     13461       2.51    -1.1   10260        4.41   76.22      8.81   14756      69.21    2435
1987     14720       9.41     3.61   11367       10.81   77.21      8.21   16030      70.61    2592
1988     16078       9.22     7.01   12102        6.51   75.31      7.81   17439      71.41    2780
1989     16795       4.51     7.72   12875        6.42   76.71      7.81   18222      70.82    2938
1990     17368       3.41     5.71   13523        5.01   77.91      7.41   18755      72.01    2973
1991     18122       4.31     4.12   14026        3.71   77.41      7.41   19561      70.51    3166
1992     18694       3.22     3.61                                  7.21   20135      71.01    3229
1993     19859       6.21     4.61                                  7.51   21469      71.51    3428
1994     21294       7.21     5.52                                  7.51   23021      71.51    3675
1995     22891       7.51     7.01                                  7.51   24748      71.51    3951
1996     24780       8.31      7.71                                 7.5   26789      71.5    4265
1997     26824       8.32     8.01                                  7.51   28999      71.51    4630
1998     29037       8.31     8.21                                  7.51   31392      71.51    5012
1999     31433       8.31      8.21                                 7.51   33982      71.51    5425
2000     34026       8.21      8.21                                 7.51   36785      71.51    5857
2001     36578       7.51      8.01                                 7.51   39544      71.51    6314
2002     39322       7.51      7.72                                 7.51   42510      71.5X    6787
2003     42271       7.52      7.51                                 7.51   45698      71.51    7296
2004     45401       7.51      7.51                                 7.51   49125      71.51    7822
2005     48849       7.51      7.51                                 7.52   52810      71.51    8431
2006     52024       6.51      7.22                                 7.51   56242      71.51    8980
2007     55406       6.51      6.81                                 7.51   59898      71.51    9563
2008     59007       6.51      6.51                                 7.51   63792      71.51   10157
2009     62843       6.51      6.51                                 7.51   67938      71.51   10847
2010     66927       6.51      6.51                                 7.51   72354      71.51   11552
---------------------------------------------------__-_-___-__--__----
11 Acquisition of MERALCO's plants in 1987-88.



- 44 -
Annex 3 - Page 4
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
TABLE 4 - Visayas Power Demand (Base Case)
Year    --- TOTAL SALES ---          Total    Total    Load    Peak
Energy   Ener8y   Factor  Demand
GWh     Annuel   Avg.   Losses    Gene-
2ncrease  3-year       %     ration     X        MW
VISAYAS              p.a.   Inor. p.a.            GM
1976        10                         9.11       11    62.6X        2
1977        51    410.01               7.3X       55    20.3X       31
1978       214    319.61               7.0X      230    62.5X       42
1979       224      4.7X               7.8X      243    53.3X       52
1980       292     30.41               9.0X      321    54.5Z       67
1981       456     56.22               9.31      503    46.32      124
1982       700     53.5X    46.21      9.91      777    54.8X      162
1983       933     33.3X    47.3Z    11.71    1057    52.71       229
1984      1020      9.32    30.82    13.32    1177    55.4X       242
1985      1173      15.01    18.8Z    12.72    1343    59.91      256
1986      1261       7.52    10.61    14.02    1467    59.01       284
1987      1490     18.22    13.52    12.01    1693    63.02       307
1988      1644      10.3X    11.92    12.42    1876    64.11       333
1989      1768      7.52    11.91    11.6X    1999    64.52        354
1990      1818      2.8Z      6.9X    11.42    2051    61.6X       380
1991      2036      12.02     7.42    10.72    2280    68.52       380
1992      2283      12.11     8.91     9.52    2523    59.3X       484
1993      2619     14.72    12.92    10.01    2910    65.62        506
1994      2985      14.02    13.61    10.02    3317    67.42       562
1995      3269      9.52    12.71    10.0X    3632    68.0X        610
1996      3514      7.52    10.31      9.62    3886    68.22       649
1997      3778      7.5X      8.22     9.11    4158    68.42       694
1998      4061      7.52      7.51     8.72    4450    68.61       741
1999      4365      7.52      7.51     8.42    4764    68.82       790
2000      4693       7.52     7.51     8.02    5101    69.02       842
2001      4998       6.51     7.21     7.82    5420    69.02       897
2002      5323       6.5X     6.81     7.6%    5759    69.0X       953
2003      5669       6.52     6.52     7.42    6121    69.02    1013
2004      6037       6.51     6.5X     7.22    6505    69.01    1073
2005      6430       6.52     6.52     7.02    6913    69.02    1144
2006      6751       5.0X     6.02     7.02    7259    69.02    1201
2007      7089       5.02     5.52     7.02    7622    69.02    1261
2008      7443       5.02     5.02     7.02    8003    69.02    1320
2009      7815       5.02     5.01     7.01    8403    69.0X    1390
2010      8206       5.02     5.02     7.02    8824    69.02    1460
------------------------------------------------------------------__---



- 45 -
AR=3n--Pge5
Philippines
Power Transmision and Rehabilitation Project
Table 5 - MIindanao Power Demand (Bae Case)
Year    --- TOTAL SALES ---          Total    Total    Load    Peak
Energy   Energy  FPator Demand
GWh     Annual   Avg.    Losses    Geno-
Increase  3-year       X     ration     X        NW
MINDANAO             p.a.  Inor. p.a  Ga          GMn
1976       745                         3.0X      768    69.4S      126
1977       868                         3.7X      901    66.42      155
1978      1017     17.2S               2.72    1045    68.62       174
1979      1113      9.4X    14.32      2.92    1146    67.1X       195
1980      1577     41.72    22.02      4.42    1650    68.82      273
1981      1772     12.42    20.32      2.62    1819    66.8X      311
1982      2174     22.72    25.02      2.92    2238    66.02      387
1983      2248      3.42    12.52      3.62    2331    64.9X      410
1984      2741     21.92    15.6X      3.32    2834    74.52      433
1985      2831      3.32      9.22     4.52    2965    72.02      470
1986      2923      3.22      9.12     3.82    3040    71.71      484
1987      3127      7.02      4.52     4.42    3272    70.12       333
1988      3458     10.62      6.92     4.72    3629    72.4Z       571
1989      3681      6.4Z      8.02     4.82    3866    71.52       617
1990      3729      1.32      6.02     5.02    3926    72.22       621
1991      3440     -7.72    -0.22      5.12    3625    70.0X      591
1992      2934    -14.72    -7.32      5.42    3101    70.02      504
1993      4699     60.22      8.02     5.52    4972    70.02       611
1994      5249     11.72    15.12      5.52    5554    70.02      906
1995      5826     11.0X    25.72      5.52    6165    70.02    1005
1996      6292      8.02    10.22      5.5X    6658    70.01    1083
1997      6796      8.02      9.02     5.52    7191    70.02    1173
1998      7339      8.02      8.02     5.52    7766    70.02    1267
1999      7926      8.02      8.02     5.52    8388    70.02    1368
2000      8561       8.02     8.02     5.52    9059    70.02    1473
2001      9245       8.02     8.02     5.52    9783    70.02    1595
2002      9985       8.02     8.02     5.52   10566    70.02    1723
2003     10784       8.02     8.02     5.52   11411    70.02    1861
2004     11646       8.02     8.02     5.52   12324    70.02    2004
2005     12578       8.02     8.02     5.52   13310    70.02    2171
2006     13584       8.02     8.02     5.5X   14375    70.02    2344
2007     14671       8.02     8.02     5.52   15525    70.02    2532
2008     15845       8.02     8.02     5.52   16767    70.02    2727
2009     17113       8.02     8.02     5.52   18108    70.02    2953
2010     18482       8.02     6.02     5.52   19557    70.02    3189
------------------------------------------------------------------__---



- 46 -
Annex 3 - Page 6
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Table 6 - Total Power Demand (Base Case)
YEAR     ----------ELECTRICITY SALES GWh  ----------            Total    Total    Load      Peak
Energy   Energy   Factor   Demand
Luzon    Visayas Mindanao   TOTAL   Annual    Avg.   Losses    Gene-
Increase  3-year     %     ration       X       MW
p.a.   Incr. p.a.          GWh
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-------------------
1976     2,211       10       745    2,966                        5.5X   3,140     20.02   1,787
1977     2,085       51      868    3,004       1.3X              8.4X   3,279     19.8X   1,895
1978     3,519      214    1,017    4,750      58.12              5.11   5,006     28.62   1,996
1979    11,210      224    1,113   12,547    164.1X               9.71  13,893     73.02   2,173
1980    12,164      292    1,577   14,033      11.8X              7.02  15,086     71.12   2,414
1981    12,690      456    1,772   14,918       6.3X              6.7X  15,988     68.62   2,660
1982    13,126      700    2,174   16,000       7.32    8.4X      8.12  17,413     68.22   2,913
1983    13,908      933    2,248   17,089       6.8X    6.82      8.5X  18,682     68.4X   3,117
1984    13,245    1,020    2,741   17,006      -0.52    4.5X      8.92  18,666     69.72   3,049
1985    13,136    1,173    2,831   17,140       0.82    2.32      8.62  18,757     70.52   3,037
1986    13,461    1,261    2,923   17,645       2.9X    1.12      8.42  19,263     68.71   3,203
1987    14,720    1,490    3,127   19,337       9.61    4.42      7.92  20,995     69.81   3,432
1988    16,078    1,644    3,458   21,180       9.52    7.32      7.7Z  22,944     70.92   3,684
1989    16,795    1,768    3,681   22,244       5.02    8.02      7.72  24,087     70.31   3,909
1990    17,368    1,818    3,729   22,915       3.02    5.82      7.31  24,732     71.02   3,974
1991    18,122    2,036    3,440   23,599       3.02    3.72      7.32  25,466     70.32   4,137
1992    18,694    2.283    2,934   23,911       1.32    2.42      7.21  25,759     69.5X   4,217
1993    19,859    2,619    4,699   27,176      13.72    5.82      7.42  29,351     70.62   4,745
1994    21,294    2,985    5,249   29,528       8.72    7.82      7.42  31,892     70.81   5,143
1995    22,891    3,269    5,826   31,986       8.32   10.22      7.4X  34,545     70.82   5,566
1996    24,780    3,514    6,292   34,586       8.12    8.42      7.42  37,333     70.92   5,997
1997    26,824    3,778    6,796   37,398       8.12    8.22      7.32  40,348     70.91   6,497
1998    29,037    4,061    7,339   40,438       8.12    8.12      7.32  43,608     70.92   7,019
1999    31,433    4,365    7,926   43,725       8.12    8.12      7.22  47,133     70.92   7,584
2000    34,026    4,693    8,561   47,280       8.12    8.12      7.22  50,945     71.02   8,172
2001    36,578    4,998    9,245   50,821       7.52    7.92      7.22  54,747     71.02   8,806
2002    39,322    5,323    9,985   54,629       7.52    7.72      7.12  58,835     71.02   9,463
2003    42,271    5,669   10,784   58,723       7.52    7.52      7.11  63,230     71.01  10,170
2004    45,441    6,037   11,646   63,125       7.52    7.51      7.12  67,954     71.01  10,899
2005    48,849    6,430   12,578   67,857       7.52    7.52      7.12  73,034     71.02  11,746
2006    52,024    6,751   13,584   72,360       6.6X    7.22      7.12  77,877     71.02  12,525
2007    55,406    7,089   14,671   77,166       6.62    6.91      7.11  83,045     71.02  13,356
2008    59,007    7,443   15,845   82,295       6.6X    6.62      7.12  88,562     71.02  14,204
2009    62,843    7,815   17,113   87,770       6.72    6.61      7.12  94,450     71.02  15,190
2010    66,927    8,206   18,482   93,615       6.72    6.72      7.12 100,735     71.02  16,201
------------------------------------------------  ---------------__ -----------__ ------------------



- 47 -
Annex 3 - Page 7
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Table 7 - Low, Base and Maximum Forecast Generation (GWh)
------ LUZON -------        ------ VISAYAS -------    ------ MINDANAO -------    ------ TOTAL -------
Actual/                    Actual/                    Actual/                    Actual/
Low      Base     High      Low     Base     High      Low     Base     High      Low     Base     High
-----------------------------------------..------------------------__---.----__--------------------------------------
1976               2361                          11                       768                       3140
1977               2323                          55                       901                        3279
1978               3731                        230                       1045                        5006
1979              12504                         243                      1146                       13893
1980              13115                         321                      1650                       15086
1981              13666                         503                      1819                      15988
1982              14398                         777                      2238                       17413
1983              15294                        1057                      2331                       18682
1984              14655                        1177                      2834                       18666
1985              14449                        1343                      2965                      18757
1986              14756                        1467                      3040                      19263
1987              16030                        1693                      3272                      20995
1988              17439                        1876                      3629                      22944
1989              18222                        1999                      3866                      24087
1990              18755                        2051                      3926                      24732
1991              19561                        2280                      3625                      25466
1992              20135                        2523                      3101                      25759
1993     21254    21469    21683     2880      2910    2939     4724     4972     5171    28858    29351    29794
1994     22578    23021    23576     3255      3317    3394     5229     5554     5828    31062    31892    32799
1995     24046    24748    25698     3532      3632    3767     5752     6165     6528    33330    34545    35993
1996     25789    26789    28204     3761      3886    4107     6155     6658     7115    35705    37333    39426
1997     27659    28999    30954     4006      4158    4476     6586     7191     7755    38250    40348    43185
1998     29664    31392    33972     4266      4450    4879     7047     7766     8453    40977    43608    47304
1999     31815    33982    37284     4543      4764    5318     7540     8388     9214    43898    47133    51816
2000     34121    36785    40919     4839      5101    5797     8068     9059    10043    47028    50945    56759
2001     36339    39544    44602     5105      5420    6261     8633     9783    10947    50077    54747    61810
2002     38701    42510    48616     5385      5759    6761     9237    10566    11933    53324    58835    67310
2003     41217    45698    52992     5682      6121    7302     9883    11411    13007    56782    63230    73300
2004     43896    49125    57761      5994     6505    7886    10575    12324    14177    60465    67954    79824
2005     46749    52810    62959      6324     6913    8517    11316    13310    15453    64389    73034    86930
2006     49320    56242    67996      6577     7259    9071    12108    14375    16844    68005    77877    93911
2007     52033    59898    73436      6840     7622    9661    12955    15525    18360    71828    83045   101456
2008     54895    63792    79311      7113     8003   10289    13862    16767    20012    75870    88562   109611
2009     57914    67938    85655      7398     8403   10957    14832    18108    21813    80144    94450   118426
2010     61099    72354    92508      7694     8824   11670    15871    19557    23776    84664   100735   127954
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-------------------------------------



- 48 -
Annex 3 - Page 8
Philppines
Power Tranmssion and Rehabilitation Project
TABLE 8 Total Peak Demand and Available Capacity in Luzon
Year     Gene-    Gene-    Avg.    2 Gene-   Load    Peak        Total      2
ration   ration   Genera-  ration   Factor  Demand   Depend. Capacity
Needed   Needed    tion    Margin               (Base  Capacity   Margin
(Base    (Low   Capacity   (Base       X      Case)              (Base
Case)    Came)              Case)                                Came)
Gwh      ehb       Gwh                        MW        MW
1980    13115                                 72.0    2074
1981    13666                                 70.1X    2225
1982    14398                                 69.52    2364
1983    15294                                 70.5X    2478
1984    14655                                 70.32    2374
1985    14449                                 71.42    2311
1986    14756                                 69.22    2435
1987    16030                                 70.62    2592
1988    17439                                 71.42    2780
1989    18222                                 70.82    2938
1990    18755              17760              72.0S    2973      3742      20.52
1991    19561              17851              70.52    3166      3804      16.82
1992    20135              16164              71.02    3229      2850    -13.32
1993    21469    21254    20174       -6.42   71.52    3428      3899      12.12
1994    23021    22578    25372        9.32   71.52    3675      4843      24.1X
1995    24748    24046    30456       18.72   71.52    3951      5616      29.62
1996    26789    25789    41209       35.02   71.52    4265      7210      40.82
1997    28999    27659    46663       37.92   71.52    4630      8038      42.42
1998    31392    29664    48993       35.92   71.52    5012      8390      40.32
1999    33982    31815    51657       34.22   71.52    5425      8793      38.32
2000    36785    34121    53075       30.7X   71.5    5857      9168      36.1X
2001    39544    36339    53966       26.7X   71.5X    6314      9835      35.8Z
-----_-------_----------------------------------------------------__---------__--



Philippim
Power Transmnisson and RehabiLtation Project
NPC's Power Development Program
TOW          1us_ Cdi                 cy  MW                    V     GM                   MW                      G. C                   MW
_               _-                                       _ =   =_  .   ..                                              _
Oil   CoAl   G-   fo                              Oil   Cal   Oe-   f*o                         0    Call   GeOO  H i
_                   _           b_1  _                                   _   i_1~___  rau
9    Or - H_Jeil 2-3           140                 _        T 1-2-A                                        GT-B.Dir  202, 201    9_
Pew,: Dire G1 201, 20 ud                            01-Iow, Dip            30                       209
204                      90                          ___________                                     ______      _   _         _
1M    tmDB  XGm T&            _      _205  0_              Hyd-1ino                              S_                                        ._
1993   Lad Ba  1a 0Im-Sacdhip                                        -2                         40         Hydvo-AVI 1-11 
combined CYC-M I         300                                                                        rieni4TmOT            40
C_ld Cydhtdmn O          210                                                                         NSC-Di6uB-4S         50
G1Q*=d BM=  1  d1ud                     ISO                                                         Diew-T.inu            St
0ee  lia                               13
Disin 240                                                                                                                                            I .
IDmaud -DiuM      UI
C _nhu Cyd*ES  _qe    _    _          .________
1994   Comild CydhB11aml        90                         G*a*PiJhyWe34                        40        CGa TS _4hi.4lqu     1C0
O_kbm#                           30                                                          BDe  Nw Du"         100
Gedm4*b                                  SO
1995   COi-Cabr U                      300                                                                 Oeo.-MIdind                         40
Cinl-IOPeOWefl                  350
1996   coil-muihiool                   300                 G;eo.Lqhe4C*ie                      1t0         Gee-wkmbIb.                         60
CoalHOPewdlU                    350                 Dabol Daol             12
1997    c        _mi-Lu1                      440          Gm-Lqoye                             90   200  Go_o i    m                         120
c"-I.MmiNI H                    300                 GeoC-MIuMOM                          40
Ta12TDd3dg              _      _        120                               _.
.. __   ?fl                                                                  |                  251 60TS33||T.dal              8|T30|5TTl4 11 240 | i
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .hiE   --u                                                          .-ej  ir       r-._e  - _i 



- 50 -
Philippines
Power Transmission and RebabUitation Project
Status of Private Sector Power Projects
(A) Projects Under Tmplementatlon/Operatlon
p. e Name                         Caetn"or                          Ty       Capaiy           l         Operli                Co  i V
bM                        by Tm,            -       
(Cow"       (Ova Pi"
_______________         _                   ___                                    ______    _ _______               Pond)        BaUf)
1.  Navoe gsw bubbe              HavewellHOW" KM. (Haezo)           D-T        210        Dime            11t991          235           2.135S
3.  lEsy Ba  It - Combned         ABB, Manabmi, Kawuek             B11O        300       Bunker C         IV1993    t      .550         1.476
cyle   t able.               Coeoatlua. (Swil-JaaIN)          _/Dked_
4.  Ab uD- b drosot               Mia                                ROL        70          yd-           6/199            NA            KA
5.  Makben    iy Ongaodena        o n"  (USAW )           B     TO             15.7     God al             1993
6.  Mlnda odi                    MNi". BWES. (Jepen-Damnak)          BTO       200       BamkerC           1993           1.252         1.191
1.  PgbiJo (Nopeweg IED           Hoapoweil ev Lid (Hane Kn,        BOT        700         Coal       350 MW 6/1995       1.637         1.587
coal plat                                                                                        350 MW 511996
S. CRAICS Diee D                  P_Iarla.                          tam        90        BkeC             7/1993          1.827       1.355
9. Midno Dise Dnp                 A. UL Osbew lna.                  LaCs       135       DuikerC          5/1993          1.547         1.347
(B) Fast-Track Projects
Projeg Name                       Conndocr                          Type   Cap-Ky           Fad          Operatio.             Cm P/kWb
MW                         by Yesu
(Cesabog    (Ovw Plan
Pedoed      Bzcesf)
1.  Navo go a nbi                Hopewell  eV I1L (lins lang)       DOT        100         Disl            31993           2.139         2.125
2.  LIey, Baa combied cycl        ABB, Macubm.l_awesd               B10        300      30170 dlkd,        611993          1.477         1.402
ge m,rbbol                   Cooruium(Swiesqpe)                                      buwnetC
3.  PwavamsBuono diesl pl;t  Baja Power Cop. (USA)                  BaT        105        B_uksrC          6/1993          1.906         1.515
4.  Subik Di"l Phu&               Bare Power Colp. (USJ)             BOT       105        _DmkC            1/1994           1.45         1.330
5.  Mbadsoo Diel Powerl          Abes. Totil ppilneeqsaq           DOT        58         BusmkC           711993          1.438         1.279
6. Yhzdaeo Die  Power n            m    Tames (0FJlippins4spem)     DOT        40        BDokerC           9/1993          1.436         1.318
7. BDan Diesd Powe                Pl Pevs Pow  Corp.                BOT        199        BMarC            1/1994          1.450         1.330
(C) Proponents with Signed Memorandum of Agreement with MERALCO
___     __-
Proponents                             TM      Capacity MW          Fu
Mael Utlides Do-vp Cosp                DOT          600             Cal
C_ fe &ay Copow                        aOT          300             LNG
LMe. Powr Aod   (ALTRESCO)               OT         400           BbDled
Edison  loa                            BOT           192           Diee
_~~~-                                                           



Annex 5 - Page 1
Philippin
Power TransmLson and Rehabilitatio   Project
Transmi_ion Lines (In Circuit Kilometers)
1956     1966      1976      1978      1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      1985     1986      1987      1988    1989      1990
TOTAL            491     2398      3682      5488      7152      8346     9137    10748    11650    11832    11997    12019    13437   13899    14060
500 kV         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0       490       490     490       490
230 kV      219       618       715      1244     1883      2363      2463     3039      3398      3484     3484      3310      3310    3602      3634
138 kV        0         0       201      765      1090      1255      1359     1960      2287     2336      2501      2472      2720    2848      2913
115 kV       86       206       466      507       484       484       484      484       484       484      484       484       499     499       508
69 kV       64       547      1229     2280      2948      3497      4084     4510      4726      4773     4773      4531      5663    5705      5760
BELOW 69 kV       50      1027    10771       692       747       747      747       755       755      755       755       732      755      755      755
LUZON            407     2160      3153      3867      4781      5528     5863      6688     7068      7201      7201     7517      7532    7824      7876
500 kV        0         0         0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0       490       490     490       490
230 kV      219       618      1109      1109     1466   181883       2363     2463      3039     3398      3484      3484      3310    3602      3634
155 kV       86       206       466      466       470       484       484      484       484      484       484       484       499     499       508
69 kV       61       436      1531     1596      1894      2161      2396     2637      2658     2705      2705      2705      2705    2705      2716
BELOW 69 kV       41      900       650       650       520       520      520       528      528       528       528      528       5Z8      528      528
VISBYAS            0        84       84       307      5552       806      885       988     1333      1471      1471     1165      2089    2217      2317
138 kV        0         0         0       45       135       182       182      394       532      532       532       503       627     755       820
69 kV        0         0         0      177       290       497       576      679       812      812       812       558      1335    1335      1370
BELOW 69 kV        0        84       84        85       127       100      100       100      100       100       100      100       100      100      100
MINDANAO          12       154      445      1314      1819     2012      2389      2860     3111      3160      3325     3337      3816    3858      3867
138 kV        0         0       201      720       955      1073      1177     1566      1755     1804      1969      1969     2093    2093       2093
69 kV        3       111       157      507       764       839      1112     1194      1256     1256      1256      1268      1623    1665      1674
BELOW 69 kV        9       43        87       100       100       100      100       100      100       100       100      100       100      100      100
11    Includes 308 km o electric cooperative-awned 69 kV lines turned over to RPC
21    Newly energized 69-kV lines total 148.9 ckt kma in length; however, a 140-ckt km data adjustment was reflected vis-a-vis previous years'
data current infomation that only 168 ckt kas of electric cooperative-owned lines are actually used by NPC.



Anmex 5 - Page 2
Philppines
Power Transmhdson and Rehabilitation Project
Substation Capacity
(In Million Volt-hmperes) 21
1956      1966      1976      1978      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984     1985       1986      1987     1988       1989     1990
TOTAL            411       916      2180      4959       7598      8552     9215    11249    12728    13307    13627    13657    13857    14291    14381
230 kV       1Z7       480       830      1483      3573      4022      4511      6001      7228      7278      7328      7328      7328      7590      7590
138 kV         0         0       200       716      1135      1362      1492      1971      2181      2541      2811      2841      2991      3243     3243
115 kV        81       106       472      1949      1827      1877      1877      1927      1927      1927      1927      1927      1977      1977     2027
69 kV       199       299       634       747       898      1117      1147      1162      1162      1331      1331      1331      1331      1251      1291
BELOW 69 kV         4        31        44        64       165       174       188       188      230       230       230       230       230       230       230
LUZON            280       764      1685       3899      6060      7192      8742    10011    10071    10121    10121    10171    10433    10483    10483
230 kV       127       480       830      1483      3573      4022      4511      6001      7228      7328      7328      7328      7590      7590      7590
115 kV        81       106       472      1949      1827      1877      1877      6001      7228      7278      7328      7328      7328      7590     2027
69 kV        70       160       352       422       521       616       646      1927      1927      1927      1927      1927      1977      1977      666
BELOW 69 kV         2        18        31        45       139       148       158       158      200       200       200       200       200       200       200
VISAY8S             0         5         5       276       378       629       728     1177      1237      1279      1360      1390      1490      1609      1649
137 kV         0         0         0       222       290       417       512       956      1016      1016      1097      1127      1227      1309     1309
69 kV         0         0         0        43        70       194       194       199       199      241        241       241       241       278      318
0         5         5        11        18        18        22       22        22        22        22        22        22        22        22
MINDAO            131       147       490       784      1160      1260      1295     1330      1480      1957      2146      2146      2196      2249      2249
138 Kv         0         0       200       494       725       945       980      1015      1165      1525      1714      1714      1764      1934     1934
69 kV       129       139       282       282       307       307       307       307       307      424        424       424      424        307      307
BELOW 69 kV         2         8         8         8         8         8                   8         8        8          8         8         8        8         8
11 Excludes retired or dmaged trasmission lines.
21 Includes Generating Plants step-up auxillijary transformrs.



- 53 -
Annex 6 - Page 1
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Efficiency and Operational Improvement Study
Terms of Reference
Objective of the Study and Expected Output
1.         The basic objectives of this study are:
(a)   To review the organization, procedures, finances, operation and maintenance of
NPC to streamline its organization and to improve its services;
(b)  To assess the productivity and effectiveness of the different departnents, and
provide recommendations to improve their operation, cost-effectiveness and
coordination;
(c)   To identify specific improvements in monitoring performance, including proposed
performance indicators;
(d)  To provide recommendations for changes needed within NPC for fostering private
sector participation in energy generation and regulating its provision; and
(e)   To identify external constraints, including but not limited to, the application to NPC
of standard government directives regarding staffing, salaries, procurement, travel,
training or similar matters and make recommendations towards the removal of
them, taking into account the need for NPC to be accountable to government.
Basic information and Coordination Requirements
2.         The study needs to consider the current size of NPC's system, the proposed
increase in private sector generation, and the expected generation growth over the next few
years. A review of historical performance trends would be also useful. In recommending
performance indicators the consultant shall provide comparisons with similar utilities elsewhere,
making due allowance for the conditions prevailing in the Philippines.
3.         The consultants should realize that NPC is already receiving advise from other
consultants in several fields and is also already in the process of implementing reforms in its
organization and procedures. The recommended improvements should take into account this and
try to coordinate their activities with NPC's staff and other consultants and consider the
experience with ongoing reforms already being implemented by NPC.
4.         The consultant also should provide a plan of action for implementation and establish
priorities for the recommendations of the study.



- 54 -
Annex 6 - Page 2
Start, Completion and Reporting Requirements
5.         The consultant should be prepared to start the work within three weeks of the
signing of the contract. All of the consultant's findings will be detailed in a comprehensive
report, to be submitted in English and in draft form (12 copies) within four months after the
signing of the contract. The final report (50 copies) shall be due within 30 days after receipt of
all comments. The report should consist of an executive summary of no more than 10 pages and
as many volumes, graphs and annexes as the consultants deem necessary to support their
recommendations.
6.         The consultant should provide adequate supporting data base and analysis and
discuss the study, its recommendations and the proposed performance indicators, throughout the
study period with the Department of Finance (DOF), NPC and the World Bank.
Scope of the Study
7.         The scope of work indicates the general areas of the study and the key subjects to
be analyzed, but it is expected that the consultant's work plan would further develop and propose
the priority areas to be covered. The consultant should also review and provide support for the
imnplementation of an Immediate Improvement Program being executed by NPC, and provide
further analysis and recommendations on the following areas:
(a)  Organization. Analyze the adequacy of the organization, the degree of
centralization or decentralization, the system of communications, the operational
efficiency, and selective performance monitoring indicators for different
departments. These monitoring indicators should properly follow from those that
apply to NPC as a whole and should serve as the basis for the fair distribution of
any bonuses that may be obtained under the govermnent monitoring system. The
consultant should closely coordinate with the existing MIS consultant to ensure that
the proposed MIS upgrades and improvements will be supportive of the Efficiency
and Operational Improvement Program recommendations. Provide recommendations
for strengthening the human relations division and the training programs of the
corporation.
(b)  Board functions. Review and make recommendations to allow for further delegation
of the Board to management and from higher levels of management to lower levels
within NPC, to reduce paperwork and focus Board's efforts on critical issues,
approval of large expenditures, the establishment of corporate policies, the approval
of short, medium and long term corporate plans and the overall direction of the
corporation.
(c)   External Constraints NPC is subject to review of several of its decisions on
investments, borrowing, procurement, hiring of consultants, travel, training and
other matters by several government agencies. It is also obligated to follow general
government directives as regards salaries, staffing and other matters. The
consultants should determine to what extent these constraints prevent NPC from
performing as an independent and efficient corporation.



- 55 -
Annex 6 - Page 3
(d)  Government Monitoring System: NPC is presently being monitored as part of the
general government corporation monitoring system. Consultants should review this
system and determine any improvements to it that may be required to ensure that
NPC is fully accountable for its performance, particularly in the light of the less
detailed, day to day monitoring which may result from the analysis and
reconunendations under 7.5, above.
(e) Corporate Planning. Review and comment on the present corporate plans and the
way in which they are prepared. Review the objectives, procedures, coordination
among different departments. Propose improvements regarding planning activities,
project scheduling and control. Particularly important is the early detection of
budgetary variances in key expenditures (fuel, capital expenditures, debt service and
in the revenues from sales). Recommend policies to improve the coordination and
linkages between engineering system planning and construction with financial
planning. Determine the divisions responsible for the validation of key financial
data, to avoid duplication, lapses, overlaps and the use of inconsistent data.
(f)   Financial and Accounting Systems. Review all accounting and administrative
procedures related to cash, parments, money transfers and data capture of financial
data and recommend improved procedures to ensure that no financial abuses would
take place. Particularly important is to separate all functions regarding the
preparation, processing, approval and verification of payments. Review and provide
recommendations to existing control procedures for main variables (contracts, letters
of credit, debt service payments, and payments to large suppliers). Review the
accounting piocedures used for the value of the assets included in the rate base
(particularly for assets being rehabilitated or down rated) and the depreciation rates
used by the corporation. Review accounting system treatment for major repair and
rehabilitation works, BOT, and BTO; for new operations group (MEC, IBMG and
SIGMD), debt restatement and buy back. Review the present practice concerning
debt and exposure management and recommend appropriate policies to minimize
risk.
(g) Internal Audit. Review the general direction and mandate of Internal Audit, its
appropriate organizational location and accountability to Management and/or to the
Board. Review the structure, its strategy, priority and focus of audit as well as
recommend strategy for controls, systems and procedures improvement, while
specifically addressing the issue of pre-audit and review of transactions. Of
particular importance would be to make recommendations as regards the scope of
work in non-financial matters.
(h) Power System Planning. Provide recommendations on the planning systems and
computers models used, both for long-term planning (WASP), as well as for short-
term forecast (PROM03) of the optimal generation mix and fuel expenditures.
Provide comments on the unit costs used for the development of generation and
transmission plans. Provide recommendations regarding the adequacy of
coordination between generation planning and transmission planning.
(i)   Power Svstem Operation. Review the cost-effectiveness of operation and
maintenance practices, availability and outage rates of units (forced outage reporting



- 56 -
Annex 6 - Page 4
system and root cause analysis capability), the plant losses, and the efficiency of the
largest plants. Particularly important is the implementation of environment control
measures and the improvements that could be applied to better the heat rate and
reduce fuel consumption. Review the appropriateness of the workshop and their
capacity to provide adequate maintenance. Conduct study and give
recommendations on fuel and water treatment problems, on boiler tube failure
problems, on the coal operations and coal handling of Calaca 1. Review the
effectiveness of regionalization, cost effectiveness of operation and maintenance
practices and the frequency and control of outages. Recommend measures to avoid
or reduce pilferage during construction or operation. Provide recommendations to
improve the reliability of the transmission line grid, and the efficiency and proper
coordination of system protection. Review the effectiveness of dispatch techniques,
operational reliability, general system cost optimization, and provide
recommendations for managing the dispatch of private co-generation. Discuss the
existing problems with frequency regulation and the measures taken for automatic
load dispatch. It should be noted that JICA's consultants are already doing a study
on the improvement of the operation and maintenance of Luzon generating plants,
transmission lines, substations and systems operation. The consultants should be
able to capture and integrate the results of this JICA study.
(j)   Fuel Use. Provide recommendations to optimize generation mix and fuel use, to
minimize storage volumes and losses. Provide recommendations on the use and
mixture of local coal (Semirara). Provide comments on the need for NPC to have
its own oil receiving facilities. Review the fuel (particularly coal) supply agreement
and strategy formulation.
(k)   Stores and Inventory. Analyze the overall MRP program and recommend
appropriate procedures and controls to ensure the availability of standard parts and
the requirements for automatic reorder and inventory management and optimization.
Review if key existing storage facilities are adequate for the volume of inventory
required.
(I)   Design and Engineering. Review the adequacy of standards for typical systems
(thermal plants, transmission lines, etc.) and identify areas for cost reduction.
Review the hydrology aspect and rule curve for hydro plants. Provide
recommendations regarding optimum size of the engineering department and on the
balance between in house and externally contracted engineering. Provide comments
on the possibility that engineering become a subsidiary company. Provide comments
on the reorganization of the engineering department by engineering fields and the
management of projects.
(m)  Procurement. Review and provide recommendations for further improvement of the
procurement organization and procedures which have been recently reorganized, to
reduce previous delays in awarding and signing contracts. Establsih target dates for
bid evaluation and approval, contract signing and notice to proceed.
(n)  Construction. Review the project management performance, in particular the
procedures for controlling construction costs and schedules, for updating projects'
costs and budgets and to integrate these results with financial planning and
forecasting.



- 57 -
Annex 6 - Page 5
(o)   Analysis of Operating Costs. Analyze the operational costs, system and plant losses.
Propose indicators and targets to monitor performance and encourage improvements
in it.
(p)   Transportation. Provide recommendations regarding the transportation system, the
organization, including the present fleet, the replacement of obsolete equipment and
the fleet required for proper operation, maintenance and administration. Review the
option of purchase vis a vis leasing.
(q)   Public Relations. Review and provide recommendation on Public Relations
strategy, organization and programs towards enhancing   NPC's public
image.
Conduct of the Study
8.         The study will be conducted in the following two phases:
(a)   Phase 1 To be completed two months after contract signing. This phase will
comprise intensive discussions of consultant's experts with government officials,
NPC's management and staff, review, compilation and analysis of data. This phase
of study should particularly identify areas for immediate improvement. The Phase 1
report should be discussed with DOF, NPC and the Bank prior to embarking on
Phase 2. A Review Seminar would present the initial recommendations of the study.
DOF, the Department of Energy and NPC would provide formal comments within
the next three weeks.
(b)   Phase 2 to be completed within two months after the Phase 1. This phase will
comprise detailed recommendations for and organizational and operational
improvements, proposed performance monitoring indicators and recommend a
schedule or action plan for implementation. The draft fial report should be
discussed with DOF, NPC and the Bank prior to finalization. A three week period
would be allowed for this purpose.
Consultant's Inputs
9.         The invited firms should form, if necessary, joint venture partnership for the
execution of the study so that the study is performed by a team combining utility expertise with
that of a managing consulting firm. The team assigned to this work should have a demonstrated
capacity in similar studies.  The consultant shall be free to recommend its own organization,
staffing, number and type of staff assigned to the team, length of service of each staff member
within the team, as well as the total number of staff-months required to perform the job. The
contract will be for a fixed amount not to exceed under any reason the amount of Y 67.5 Million.
Support to be provided
10.        NPC will provide office space, secretarial assistance and two vehicles for the use of
the consultants during their stay in the Philippines.



PHIUPPINES
1992 ORGANIZATiON STRUCTURE
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
0P4E 1CEO
CP0                45 aE                                                            a 1                       0Ia        XOl     EVCS |i4    a E 
CamCD6EU :                                                           Tt
C0NTIFXIERS  *   330  u4      0NTI |W             1 aE|1 ERVIE W     FISCE   ||UNtWL
FWlEASURAY      14208                                                SERVICE   |
PLANNING S.VCS.   79    rU- g-l2                                                 S  4W "MMIFN
HUMIAN IESOIJRCES : 232                              MT, NIPLAN
0SVP ENGWEEFU0   1906    96 47
OSV PONMWV4   39064            MEFNUAEMJT                             VIDIKEPr.CPAUWf
TOYAL.         14167                                                           as
g "~~~~~~~~~~~~4
am ~        ~           ~            u~
| EN;NEERNG i *  gOSUPOwPzloWIONSI |           i 64                      22_17
FYS7           J tSMALL POWER  3ENTER | 
ENtNTE 540cC  1                 tTPOL  1                    r2|||3| 1     13P  21                                            im 2F|"a                                  7
OEVEfOPEN l    ITS &  OEiPP                                                            Pg  [S85  .|aM -SX961"
7EHI  SVCS 4             1        CONSTF Xf 1N  4    SPE,IAL l :1ptGR  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPATENT                                                                             |                                  EI||TCHNomm  | TFi4" I T0I D      
12 ~    ~       ~       t7             189             toa                                                             7   wU Y
EWOCENTER  DE". ~       ~       ~       TEcRc
25~~~~~~~~~~1
FUEL CL     OWICEOF liE   COK RANo IA                                               .       r   IOWA
1076                ,UP                          0mi4 15 5a                          toU2o
GEDSCIENCEPOS-92IMUP N/C: OLI3/I
SERVICE  KSUcwEm.  SFWFCMER  t0
----] 40                                                                                LEMOV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
RESEAF" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~E0u1



- 59 -
Annox 4 - Ps$* I
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Table 1- Total Project Cost
----- MKlion Peoae  ----   S Of  ---- Million USS ---  Phyiocal    X   -------- MIluau Us$ -------
WQRKS                                                  Base                          Coutin-   Foreign
Local Foreign  Total  Cost  Local Foreign  Total g.ncioU                1992   1993   1994   1995
A. TRANSMISSION MAPNION 6A REIN  189.8  2202.6  2392.4  73.5s    7.3   84.7    92.0                92.12   7.5   64.4  20.1   0.0
Transmission Lineo             179.4  1750.1  1929.5  59.32    6.9    67.3    74.2              90.7Z   7.5   51.9  14.S    0.0
Conductora/Insulators/Suppo    0.0  1750.1  1750.1  53.82    0.0    67.3    67.3   10.0l   100.O1   6.7   47.1  13.5   0.0
Ereotion & Srinsing          171.6     0.0  171.6   5.32    6.6    0.0         6.6   10.02    0.02   0.7    4.6    1.3    0.0
Engineering & Overhaod         7.8     0.0     7.8   0.21    0.3      0.0      0.3   10.O    0.0   0.1    0.2    0.0    0.0
Substations                     10.4   452.5  462.9   14.2Z   0.4    17.4    17.8               97.81   0.0  12.5   5.3   0.0
Transf./Switha4ear/Controle    0.0   452.5  452.5   13.92    0.0    17.4    17.4   10.02  100.O1   0.0   12.2    5.2   0.0
Installation/Com*osioning      7.8     0.0     7.8   0.2Z    0.3       0.0     0.3   10.02    O.O1   0.0    0.2    0.1    0.0
Engineorins & Overhead         2.6     0.0     2.6    0.11    0.1      0.0     0.1   10.02    0.01   0.0    0.1   0.0   0.0
B. IAT&AA  POWI  PLANT REMAN.      91.0  585.1  676.1  20.82    3.5   22.5    26.0                 86.52   0.0    2.6  18.2   5.2
UNIT 1 (75 W)                   23.4  182.0  205.4   6.32    0.9         7.0     7.9            88.62   0.0    0.8   5.5    1.6
Parts/Materials                0.0   156.0  156.0    4.82    0.0       6.0     6.0   10.0l . 100.O   0.0    0.6    4.2    1.2
Supervision                   10.4    26.0   36.4   1.12    0.4    1.0         1.4   10.02   71.41   0.0    0.1   1.0    0.3
Labour                        13.0     0.0   13.0   0.42    0.5        0.0     0.5   10.O2    0.0    0.0    0.1   0.4    0.1
UNIT 2 (150 MW)                 52.0  387.!  439.5  13.5Z   2.0    14.9   16.9                  88.2Z   0.0   1.7   11.8   3.4
Parts/Materials                0.0   340.7   340.7  10.51    0.0   13.1    13.1   10.O2  100.02   0.0    1.3    9.2   2.6
Supervision                   26.0   46.8   72.8   2.22    1.0         1.8     2.8   10.02   64.31   0.0    0.3    2.0    0.6
Labour                        26.0     0.0   26.0   0.81    1.0       0.0      1.0    10.01   OO.   0.0    0.1    0.7    0.2
cIRCULATING WAUER PIPE          15.6    15.6   31.2   1.01    0.6        0.6     1.2            50.02   0.0    0.1    0.8    0.2
Parts/Materiaa                 0.0    15.6    15.6    0.52    0.0     0.6      0.6   10.02  100.01   0.0    0.1    0.4    0.1
Supervilon                     2.6     0.0     2.6   0.12    0.1      0.0      0.1   10.0l    OO.   0.0    0.0    0.1   0.0
Labour                        13.0     0.0   13.0   0.4S    0.5        0.0     0.5   10.01    0.02   0.0    0.1   0.4    0.1
C. PROJECT PREPARATION/IMPLEM.      7.8   23.4    31.2    1.01    0.3      0.9      1.2            75.0X   0.1    0.7    0.3    0.2
Transmission Master Plan       0.0     7.8     7.8   0.21    0.0      0.3      0.3    5.OZ  100.01   0.1    0.2    0.1    0.0
Power Plant Rehab.             2.6   10.4   13.0   0.41    0.1    0.4          0.5     5.01   80.01   0.1   0.4    0.1   0.0
Engineoring/hdministration     5.2     5.2    10.4    0.32    0.2     0.2      0.4     5.01   50.0X   0.0    0.1   0.2    0.1
D. ISTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMRII        0.0    13.0   13.0   0.41    0.0       0.5      0.5   OO.  100.O2   0.2    0.4    0.0    0.0
E. TAXES AND DUTIZ8     21        141.2    0.0   141.2   4.32    5.4       0.0      5.4     0.01    0.02   0.3    3.1    1.7    0.2
TOTAL COST              31        429.8  2824.2  3254.0  100.O2   16.5  108.6  125.2               86.81   8.1   71.1  40.3    5.6
PIYSICAL CONTINGENCIZS             28.5  279.9  308.4   9.51    1.1    10.8    11.9    9.51   90.81   0.8    6.7    3.8    0.5
PRICH CONTINGENCIES                61.6   500.2  561.8  17.31    0.8       8.5      9.3            91.41   0.1    4.2    4.2    0.8
TOTAL COST WITH CONTINGENCIE8 11  519.9  3604.3  4124.2  126.7S   18.4   127.9   146.3             87.41   9.0   82.1  48.3   6.9
11 Due to rounding, it May appear that tho last digit in totala does not add.
21 Total value added taxes after escalation add to USSS.7 miL.ion.
31  The basic costs in ini 6/1992 Prices



-60-                                   Annex z  - Pag  2
PhUippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
TABLE 2 - Total Project Cost With Contingencies In Each Category (Milion US$) 11
Million Pesos  ----   S Of   ---- Million US$ ---                    -   Million US$ ------
WORKS                                                      Total                             Foreign
Local  Foral8n  Total    Cost   Local  Forsign  Total                 1992    1993        1994    1995
A. TRANSMISSION  VcPANION & REIN  232.0  2775.6  3007.6    72.9Z    8.3    99.1   107.4    92.32    8.4    74.7                24.2     0.0
Transmission Lines               219.3  2198.8  2418.1    58.6s    7.8    78.6    86.5    90.9n    8,4    60.2              17.9     0.0
Conduotors/Inaulatoru/Suppo    0.0  2198.8  219S.8    53.3Z    0.0    78.6    78.6   100.02    7.5    54.8                16.3     0.0
Erection & Stringing           209.9      0.0   209.9      5.12    7.5      0.0      7.5     0.0S    0.7       5.2         1.6     0.0
Enginaering A Overhead           9.4      0.0     9.4      0.21    0.3      0.0      0.3     0.0S    0.1       0.2         0.0     0.0
Substations                       12.7   576.8   589.5    14.3S    0.5    20.5    20.9    97.8S    0.0    14.3               6.4     0.0
Tranaf./Switchasar/Controls    0.0   576.8   576.8    14.02    0.0    20.5    20.5   100.02    0.0    14.2                 6.3     0.0
Installation/Comiasioning        9.6     0.0      9.6      0.22    0.3      0.0      0.3     0.01    0.0       0.3         0.1     0.0
Engineering & Overhead           3.1      0.0     3.1      0.12    0.1      0.0      0.1     0.02    0.0       0.1         0.0     0.0
B. BATAAN POWEt PLANT REEA8.        118.9   785.9   904.7    21.92    4.1    27.3    31.4    86.92    0.0           3.0        21.9     6.5
UNIT 1 (75 MW)                    30.6   244.5   275.1       6.72    1.1      8.5      9.6    88.92    0.0       0.9         6.7     2.0
Parts/Materiels                  0.0   209.6   209.6       5.12    0.0      7.3      7.3   100.02    0.0       0.7         5.1     1.5
Suporvision                     13.6    34.9    48.5       1.21    0.5      1.2      1.7    72.02    0.0       0.2         1.2     0.3
Labour                          17.0      0.0    17.0      0.42    0.6      0.0      0.6     0.0    0.0       0.1         0.4     0.1
UNIT 2 (150 MW)                   67.9   520.4   588.3    14.32    2.4    18.1    20.4    88.52    0.0           2.0        14.3     4.2
Parts/Materials                  0.0   457.5   457.5    11.12    0.0    15.9    15.9   100.0S    0.0           1.5        11.1     3.3
Superviaion                     34.0    62.9    96.8       2.3Z    1.2      2.2      3.4    64.9Z    0.0       0.3         2.3     0.7
Labour                          34.0      0.0    34.0      0.82    1.2      0.0      1.2     0.02    0.0       0.1         0.8     0.2
CIRCULATING WATER PIPE            20.4    21.0    41.3       1.02    0.7      0.7      1.4    50.71    0.0       0.1         1.0     0.3
Parts/Materials                  0.0    21.0    21.0       0.52    0.0      0.7      0.7   100.02    0.0       0.1         0.5     0.2
Supervision                      3.4      0.0     3.4      0.11    0.1      0.0      0.1     0.05    0.0       0.0         0.1     0.0
Labour                          17.0      0.0    17.0      0.42    0.6      0.0      0.6     0.02    0.0       0.1         0.4     0.1
C. PROJECT PREPARATION/IMPLEM.        9.5    28.4    37.9       0.91    0.3      1.0      1.3    75.21    0.1       0.7         0.3      0.2
Transmission Mastor Plan         0.0      9.4     9.4      0.22    0.0      0.3      0.3   100.02    0.1       0.2         0.1     0.0
Power Plant Rehab.               3.0    12.4    15.4       0.41    0.1      0.4      0.6    80.42    0.1       0.4  -    0.1       0.0
Rnainoring/Administratiou        6.4      6.6    13.1      0.32    0.2      0.2      0.5    50.71    0.0       0.1         0.2     0.1
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMNT           0.0    14.4    14.4       0.32    0.0      0.5      0.5   100.02    0.2       0.4       0.000      0.0
E. TAXES AiO DUTIES                 159.6      0.0   159.6      3.92    5.7      0.0      5.7      0.02    0.4      3.2         1.8      0.3
------------_-----_--------------------------------------------------__---_--__----,-----------------------------------------------
TOTAL COST                          519.9  3604.3  4124.2   100.01   18.4   127.9   146.3          0.9      9.0    82.1        48.3      6.9
11 Due to rounding lost digits may appear not to add.



- 61 -
Annex 8 - Page 3
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
TABLE 3 - Project Cost-MIlIon Pesos with Contingencies in each Category ii
------ Million US$ ------          I      ---- Million Pesos ----
WORKS                          Base   Phys.   Price    Total   Foreign
Cost   Cont.   Cont.     Cost               1992    1993    1994    1995
----------------------------------------------------.-----_--------__--------__-----------_---------------
A. TRANSMISSION EXPANSION 6 REIN   92.0      9.2     6.2     107.4     2.0  224.8 2085.9   696.9        0.0
Transmission Lines              74.2      7.4     4.8      86.5     1.0  223.9  1681.0   513.2       0.0
Conduotors/Insulators/Suppo   67.3      6.7     4.6      78,6   100.0X  201.7  1529.5      468       0
Erection & Stringing           6.6      0.7     0.2       7.5     0.0X   19.5   145.9       45       0
Engineering & Ovorhead         0.3      0.0     0.0       0.3     0.01    2.7      5.7       1       0
Substations                     17.8      1.8     1.3      20.9     1.0     0.9   404.9   183.7      0.0
Transf./Switoh8ear/Controls   17.4      1.7     1.3      20.5   100.0S    0.0   395.4      181       0
Installation/Commissioning     0.3     0.0      0.0       0.3     0.0X    0.0     7.6        2       0
Engineering & Overhead         0.1      0.0     0.0       0.1     0.01    0.9     1.9        0       0
B. BATAAN POWER PLANT REHAB.       26.0      2.6     2.8      31.4     4.4     0.0    84.1   629.9   190.7
UNIT 1 (75 MW)                   7.9      0.8     0.9       9.6     1.7     0.0   25.6   191.5    58.0
Parts/Materials                6.0      0.6     0.7       7.3   100.01    0.0    19.5      146      44
Supervision                    1.4      0.1     0.1       1.7    72.01    0.0     4.5       34      10
Labour                         0.5      0.1     0.0       0.6     0.01    0.0      1.6     .12       4
UNIT 2 (150 MW)                 16.9      1.7     1.8      20.4     1.6     0.0    54.7  409.6  124.0
Parts/Materials               13.1      1.3     1.5      15.9   100.01    0.0    42.5      319      96
Supervision                    2.8      0.3     0.3       3.4    64.91    0.0     9.0       67      20
Labour                         1.0      0.1     0.1       1.2     0.0X    0.0     3.2       24       7
CIRCULATING WATER PIPE           1.2      0.1     0.1       1.4     1.0     0.0      3.8    28.8     8.7
Parts/Materials                0.6      0.1     0.1       0.7   100.01    0.0     1.9       15       4
Supervision                    0.1      0,0     0.0       0.1     0.0X    0.0     0.3        2       1
Labour                         0.5      0.1     0.0       0.6     0.01    0.0     1.6       12       4
C. PROJECT PREPARATION/IMPLEM.       1.2     0.1     0.1       1.3     2.3     3.1   20.6       8.9     5.2
Transmission Master Plan       0.3      0.0     0.0       0.3   100.01    1.7     4.6        2       1
Power Plant Rehab.             0.5      0.0     0.0       0.6    80.4S    1.4    12.3        2       0
Engineering/Administration     0.4      0.0     0.0       0.5    50.71    0.0     3.7        5       4
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT        0.5      0.0     0.0       0.5   100.01    4.1    10.3        0       0
E. TAXES AND DUTIES     21           5.4     0.0     0.2       5.7     0.01    9.4    89.6       53       7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__---__---------------------------
TOTAL COST              31        125.2      0.0    21.2     146.3    87.4X  241.4 2290.6    1389       203
11 Due to rounding last digits may appear not to add.



- 62 -                          Annex 9 - Page l
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Bataan Plant Rehabilitation
Introduction
1.      The main objectives of the rehabilitation of the two oil-fired thermal units at Bataan are to:
(a)  improve plant reliability and hence availability;
(b)  improve plant heat rate;
(c)  extend life of the plant by at least 10 years; and
(d)  improve environmental performance (through more efficient fuel combustion, lower heat
rate and other plant modifications that will have impact on emissions/effluents in a cost-
effective manner).
2.       NPC's plant personnel have formulated their views on the nature and scope of
rehabilitation work, based on their operating experience with the plant and discussions with the
consultant. As the success of rehabilitation in terms of its financial viability would depend to a large
extent on carefully delineating the exact scope of work and prioritizing investments to achieve the
objectives of rehabilitation in the most cost-effective manner, it is proposed to avail of the assistance
of competent independent consultants to guide NPC in this project.
3.       The following safeguards will be provided to avoid the unsatisfactory experience with Sucat
and Malaya rehabilitation:
(a)   The rehabilitation work will be undertaken on a project management concept, and the
operations will be headed by a project manager responsible from the inception of the
project to its final conclusion. Since engineering will be performed by NPC's Engineering
Department, the project manager would be appointed from the Project Monitoring group to
avoid inter departmental disharmony between the Operations and Engineering departments.
The project manager will have overall responsibility for the project including cost and
schedule control.
(b)   The rehabilitation engineering would be the responsibility of NPC's Thermal Engineering
Department, that has sufficient experience in equipment selection and macro analysis which
are of paramount importance to the success of the project. This effort including review of
specifications would be assisted by independent consultants.
(c)   Procurement would be performed in an accelerated manner for this emergency project.
Normally NPC takes 200 days or more to award a bid after bid opening. This excessive
time taken would be shortened by the implementation of the recommendations under the
project.
(d)  Important rehabilitation parts would be procured from the original plant manufacturers.



- 63 -                            Annex9-Page2
Scope of Work Bataan Thermal Plant Unit #2
Boiler & Auxiliaries
4.       Almost 70% of the shutdowns for the year 1990 were due to boiler related problems. The
water wall panels, SH and RH assemblies need to be carefully inspected to determine exact scope of
work before replacement. The following items would fall tentatively in the rehabilitation work
program.
(a)   Repair and/or replacement of air and gas ducts.
(b)   Replacement of air preheater elements and repair as needed.
(c)   Overhaul of 3 nos. boiler feed pumps.
(d)   Replacement of all steam traps.
(e)   Overhaul and selected replacement of fuel/air damper controls.
(f)   Replacement of automatic boiler control.
(g)   Replacement of steam traps.
(h)  Inspection and repair of demineraliser system.
Circulating Water System
5.       The common cooling water pipe for both the units will have to be repaired.
Turbine & Auxiliaries
6.       The plant has &'J installed capacity of 150 MW, however its output is presently limited to
90 MW due to the excessive vibration of the generator rotor and the turbine rotor. The correction of
this problem will have to be done by the manufacturer FUJI of Japan on a proprietary basis. The
following items fall tentatively in the rehabilitation work program.
(a)   Repair/replacement of generator rotor.
(b)   Balancing of turbine rotor and replacement of selected parts.
(c)   Condenser tube replacement.
(d)  Inspection and repair of HP, IP and LP turbine and bearings.
(e)   Rehabilitation of CWP discharge valve.
(f)  Inspection and rehabilitation of turbine governing system and associated valves.
Electric Systems
7.       The following items fall tentatively in the rehabilitation work program.
(a)   Replacement of station batteries.
(b)   Replacement of miscellaneous load centers.
(c)  Installation of additional M-G set.



- 64 -                            Annex 9-Page 3
Instumnentatlon and Controls
8.       The following items fall tentatively in the rehabilitation work program.
(a)   Review of all plant control devices for obsolescence and replacement with matching devices
presently available.
Scope of Work Bataan Thermal Plant Unit #1
Bdoler and Auxiliaries
9.       Review of forced outage data for the last three years indicates that the major causes for
forced outages are failures in Boiler System (70%), followed by feedwater system problems (13%).
The following items fall tentatively in the rehabilitation work program.
(a)   The water wall panels, SH and RH assemblies need to be inspected to determine exact
scope of work before replacement. Steam drum and header need to be inspected to
evaluate remaining life.
(b)  Inspection and overhaul/replacement of Hi-Vis valve circuit.
(c)   Alignment of AH and replacement of elements and parts as needed.
(d)  Inspection and repair of feedwater system. High Pressure feedwater heater #1
replacement.
(e)  Inspection/replacement of all steam traps.
Turbine & Auxfiiaries
10.      The following items fall tentatively in the rehabilitation work program.
(a)  Inspection of HP, IP and LP turbines.
(b)   Condenser retubing.
(c)   Replacement of condenser cooling discharge pipe.
(d) Inspection and rehabilitation of turbine governing system and associated valves.
(e)   Replacement of turbir- Q- rervisory instruments.
Electric Systems
11.      The following items fall tentatively in the rehabilitation work program.
(a)   Replacement of station batteries.
(b)  Installation of motor/compressor units for switch yard breakers and switches.
(c)   Replacement of seal oil vacuum pump/motor.
(d)   Evaluation/Replacement of 69KV and 230 KV ACB to gas circuit breaker.
Insrw tatfon and Controls
12.      The following items fall tentatively in the rehabilitation work program.
(a)   Review of all plant control devices for obsolescence and replacement with matching devices
presently available.



- 65 -
Annex 10
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Bank's         Year and         Disburse-       Cumulative       DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
Fiscal         Semester            ments        Disburse-
Year           Ending                            ments         Emergency
Recons.             Project
1993            31-Dec-92              0.0            0.0              0.01             0.0O
30-Jun-93             0.0            0.0               0.0             0.01
1994            31-Dec-93             16.5           16.5             10.0X            15.0X
30-Jun-94             5.1           21.6             18.01            19.61
1995            31-Dec-94             18.0           39.6             34.01            36.01
30-Jun-95            15.6           55.2             46.01            50.2X
1996            31-Dec-95             22.9           78.1             66.01            71.01
30-Jun-96            20.3           98.4             82.01            89.5X
1997            31-Dec-96              7.2          105.6             94.0X            96.01
30-Jun-97             4.4          110.0             98.01           100.01
CUMULAT I VE  DISBURSEMENTS
A&40L# SHOW ARS LMIL DI SSURENTS
ae-
70e-
AODb__ _                      f  
ace4 -___                             ___
00
_e  -
0.c-92           sCs- 94            ac' 96
O.C-93            0"- 95
YES & SNTR



- 66 -
Annez 11 - Pag  1
Pbiippines
Power Trnsmission and Rehabilitation Project
Total Capital Expenditures
SlUMMARY TRANSMISSION WORKS
TRANSMISSION WORKS              1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
GRAND TOTAL
Foreign                       52.7   158.9   269.3   440.5   418.4   351.4   250.2
Local                         1062    1256    2379    3081    3567    4257    1693
TOTAL ESCALATED COST            2407    5523   10071   16215   16484   15439    9884
Interest During Constr.          0        0       0        0       0        0        0
Taxes and Duties                 0        0       0        0        0       0        0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC          2407    5523   10071   16215   16484   15439    9884
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION       2763    5776    3697    3294    6009          0        0
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__----
LUZON
Foreign                       51.0   121.8   191.6   321.8   312.2   317.8   247.6
Local                          696      652    1569    2199    2243    2035    1471
TOTAL ESCALATED COST            1997    3924    7040   11795   11881   12148    9579
Interest During Constr.          0        0       0        0       0        0        0
Taxes and Duties                 0        0       0        0        0       0        0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC          1997    3924    7040   11795   11881   12148    9579
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION       2397    4900    2831    2616    1303          0        0
VISAYAS
Foreign                        1.3    18.5    49.2    46.0    43.1    18.0         2.5
Local                          203      151     134      488      597    1081       31
TOTAL ESCALATED COST             236      647    1539    1861    1928    1653        113
Interest During Constr.          0        0       0        0        0       0        0
Taxes and Duties                 0        0       0        0        0       0        0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC           236      647    1539    1861    1928    1653        113
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION        199      642     678        0       68        0       0
MINDANAO
Foreign                        0.5    18.6    28.5    72.6    63.1    15.7         0.0
Local                          162      453     677      393      727    1140      191
TOTAL ESCALATED COST             174      952    1491    2559    2675    1638        192
Interest During Constr.          0        0       0        0        0       0        0
Tazes and Duties                 0        0       0        0        0       0        0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC           174      952    1491    2559    2675    1638        192
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION        167      234      188     678    4638         0       0



-67 -
Annex 11 - Page 2
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Total Capital Expenditures
SUlMMARY GENERATION AND OTHER WORKS
GENERATION & OTHER WORKS         1992        1993       1994        1995        1996     1997
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----------
GRAND TOTAL
Foreign                       252.6       751.3      852.4       545.3     1073.6   1359.5
Local                          3948        5504       6284        7729       9641    12650
TOTAL ESCALATED COST            10392       25681      30629       23988      42780    55915
Interest During Constr.           0           0          0           3          1         0
Taxes and Duties                  0           0          0           0          0         0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC          10392       25681      30629       23992      42781    53915
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION        7261       25507      27672       17958       8667    13056
GENERAL WORKS
Foreign                        48.2        73.7      125.0        68.5       43.3      41.7
Local                          2176        2971       3878        4137       4602      4867
TOTAL ESCALATED COST             3407        4952       7447        6179       5940      6194
Interest During Constr.           0           0          0           0          0         0
Taxes and Duties                  0           0          0           0          0         0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC           3407        4952       7447        6179       5940      6194
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION        1889        4058       7679        5325       5320         0
NMW BOT PROJECTS
Foreign                        0.00        0.00      11.81      146.86     627.30  1086.83
Local                             4          15         24         210       1726      4156
TOTAL ESCALATED COST                4          15        361        4589      21090    38743
Interest During Constr.           0           0          0           3          1         0
Taxes and Duties                  0           0          0           0          0         0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC              4          15        361        4592      21091    38743
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION           0           0           0          0           0        0
LUZON
Foreign                      141.52      569.13     422.00      272.97     324.05   186.07
Local                           464        1285       1149        2183       1585      1391
TOTAL ESCALATED COST             4074       16570      13201       10323      11588      7312
Interest During Constr.           0           0          0           0          0         0
Taxes and Duties                  0           0          0           0          0         0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC           4074       16570      13201       10323      11588      7312
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION         208       17514       9621        9596       2265    13056
VISAYAS
Foreign                        14.4        32.0       55.7         0.0        4.3       9.0
Local                            42         133        128           0         65        85
TOTAL ESCALATED COST              411         992       1719           0        199       370
Interest During Constr.           0           0          0           0          0         0
Taxes and Duties                  0           0          0           0          0         0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC            411         992       1719           0         199      370
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION           23        985       2523           0           0        0
MINDANAO
Foreign                         0.0        61.6      223.1        57.0       74.6      36.0
Local                            67         118         70         104        522       849
TOTAL ESCALATED COST               67        1773       6441        1803       2824      1994
Interest During Constr.           0           0          0           0          0         0
Taxes and Duties                  0           0          0           0           0        0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC             67        1773       6441        1803       2824      1994
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION        3925        1768        6119       1792           0        0



- 68 -
Annex 11 - Page 3
GENERATION & OTHER WORKS          1992        1993        1994        1995        1996      1997
ISLANDS
Foreign                         44.2        11.0        10.5         0.0         0.0      0.0
Local                            329         259         306         334         356      407
TOTAL ESCALATED COST              1456         555         606         334         358       407
Interest During Constr.            0           0           0           0           0         0
Taxes and Duties                   0           0           0           0           0         0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC            1456         555         606         334         358       407
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION          891         757        1219         685         476         0
ENGINEERING
Foreign                          4.2         3.9         4.4         0.0         0.0      0.0
Local                            866         722         728         761         783      895
TOTAL ESCALATED COST               973         826         854         761         783       895
Interest During Constr.            0           0           0           0           0         0
Taxes and Duties                   0           0           0           0           0         0
TOTAL WITH TAXES & IDC             973         826         854         761         783       895
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION          325         425         511         561         605         0
TOTAL CAPEX IN US$ Million
PROPOSED BOTS                      0.2         0.5        12.7       153.9       683.2   1217.4
LUZON                            159.7       617.0       462.2       346.2       375.4    229.8
VISAYAS                           16.1        36.9        60.2         0.0         6.4      11.6
MINDANAO                           2.6        66.0       225.5        60.4        91.5      62.7
OTHER                            228.8       235.8       311.9       243.9       229.4    235.6



- 69 -
Annex 12 - Page I
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
NPC's Finandal Projections
INCOME STATEMENT 11
1989   1990    1991   1992   1993    1994    1995   1996   1997
---------------_--------------------------_--------------------_---__--------__-----_------------------------
Total Energy Sales (GWh)             22244  22915   23598  23958  26015   29935   33022   36648  40920
Net Sales (Excluding Teast-Run)      22244   22915   23191  23875  25494   29565   32424   35498  37936
S Total Energy Losses                  7.72  10.1S    7.2Z   6.81    7.31    7.32    7.3X    7.31   7.32
Total Energy Generation (GWh)        24087  25486   25437  25697  28067   32289   35614   39523  44120
Average Tariff - P/Kwh               0.927   1.125   1.396   1.577   1.737   1.946   2.074   2.341  2.707
Energy Sales Revenues                20610  25779   32363  37646   44288   57542   67250   83095  102684
Other Operational Revenues               0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0      0
--_--------------------------_------------_-------------------_----------
OPERATIONAL REVENUES                 20610   25779   32363   37646   44288   57542   67250  83095  102684
Bunker Oil (Excl. Taxes             4648   8165   11381   7344   7336   10692   12792   10698  11274
Fuel Oil (Excl. Taxes                 58   1559    3921   6598   5375    2387    2628   2247   1911
Coal & Coal Taxes                   1147   1094    1629   1180    1495    1747    1857   5769   7608
Steam                               2750   3035    3197   3351   4083    5827    7067   9637  15697
Purchased Power and VAT                0      11      344    949   4255    9781   12159  19962  26759
PersonneL                           1181   1206    1522   1420    1700    2006    2184    2372   2628
Maintenance                          421    409       805   1007    1123    1252    1390    1540   1706
Net Losses Small Islands              19      58      143    282    723    845        928    934    859
Other Operating Expenses             254    254    1168   1132   1400    1540    1694    1863   2050
Prov, for Doubtful Accts             109      30       50      53      20      43      55      82     98
Real Estate & Other Taxes             57      71      122    280    211    226        241    257    274
Franchise Tax Local Gover.                                    162    190    247       289     357    442
--------------------------------------------------_------------_-_---__--
OPERATING EXPENSES EXCL.DEPREC.      10644  15892   24283   23759   27910   36593   43287   55719  71305
Depreciation & Depletion              4348   5102    5645   7024   7944   10880   12407   14537  16962
-----------------------------------------------------------------__------
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES             14992  20994   29928  30783   35854   47472   55693   70256  88267
=________________________________________________________________________
OPERATING INCOME                      5618   4785    2436   6863   8434   10069   11557   12839  14417
4lnterest Income                     865    754       594    578    479    587        323    233    690
+Net Income Test-Run Plants                          -462      20    354      313     662    1536   4726
4Other Revenues                      357    173       223    272    330       467     372    383    392
---------_---------------------------------------------_-__--_-------__--
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST                6841   5712    2791   7733    9597   11437   12914   14991  20224
-Interest Charged to Operation      4386   4648    5435   4445   4774    6638    7753    7867   9042
-Amort.Deforred Charaes/(Credits)      0   -119    -175    -119    -119   -119'  -119    -119   -135
-Forex Exchange Losses                97    262        43       0       0       0       0       0      0
-Oil Taxes and Other Expanses        301   1641    3002   3323    1783    1555.  1788    1563   1507
-Depreciation Other Non-Operations     0       0      237    213    231      243    243      243    243
-----------------------------------------.-------------------.-------__--
INCOME BEFORE DIVIDENDS               2057   -720   -5751    -128   2928   3119    3249    5436   9567
-Provision for Dividends               0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0      0
+Oil Tax Exemption                     0    1450    2616    3098    1598    1365    1592   1361   1299
+Exception Gains (Losses)                                    1678
+Previous Years Adjustments            0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0      0
NET INCOME (Loss)                     2057    730   -3135   4647    4525   4484    4841   6797  10866
RATIOS AND INDICATORS
Increase in Power Sales                5.02    3.02    1.21    2.92    6.82   16.O    9.72   9.52   6.92
S Increase Average Tariff             -0.91  21.41   24.01  13.01  10.21   12.0X    6.61  12.91  15.61
Power Sold/Total Pop. (Kwh/person)     370    373       375    373    397       448     484    527    577
Increase Cash Oper. Revenues           4.02  25.1S   25.5S  16.3S  17.61  29.92   16.91  23.62  23.62
Working Ratio (Dir.Expen/Revanuas)    51.6S  61.62   75.01  63.1Z  63.01  63.61   64.4Z   67.12  69.45
Operating Ratio (Oper.Exp/Revenues)    72.72  81.42   92.61  81.91  81.0S  82.62   82.92  84.6Z  86.11
Net Profit on Equity                   6.01   2.21   -8.51    7.92  8a.3    8.02    7.41    8.92  11.82
Rate Base, Simple Average          66090  68409   79260  97621  103674  125866  144458  160483  180209
Rate Base, NPC s Charter          67863   71058   83307  101580  108326  131965  151672  169770  192093
Rate of Return, Rate Base              8.51    7.01    3.12   7.02    8.12   8.01    8.01    8.01    8.01
Rate of Return, NPC's Charter          8.3Z   6.7S    2.91    6.81    7.81    7.61    7.62    7.62   7.51
11  Due to ro-nding, tho last  digit in totals may appear different then the sum of columns.



- 70 -
Annex 12 - Page 2
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
NPC's Financial Projections
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
19 e    1990     1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
--------------------------_-----------_----------------------------__--------__------------------------------
SOURCES OF FUNDS:
Income Beforo Interest Chacges         6841    5712     2791    7733    9 97   11437   12914   14991   20224
+Depreciation & Depleton             4348    5102     5645    7024    7944   10860   12407   14537   16962
+Dopreciation Other Assets              0       0      237     213      231     243     243     243     243
+Not Disposal of Fixed Assets           0       0        0        0       0       0       0       0       0
-Other Cash Non-Oper.Expenses         301     191      386     225      185     191     196     202     208
---------------------------------------------------------------------__--
OPERATING CASH FLOW                    10888   10623     8287   14745   17587   22369   25368   29569   37221
LESS:
Iner.Working Capital Excl.Caeh (+)    215   -4735    -1359   -3015    -218      240      33   -1504    -978
Incr. Other Assets/Liabiliti*s         69     342     -321    -546      118     107     116     125     135
Increase in Oil Taxes (Refunds)              3210     2545    3098   -1000   -2000   -4000   -3253        0
Tax end Dividends Paid                 57      71       122      91      97     104     111     119    128
Other Cash Expencen                     0       0         0     619    1589       0       0       0       0
CASH AVAIL. BEFORE DEBT SERVICE        10547   11735     7300   14499   17000   23917   29107   34081   37937
Principal Payments 11                  6373    4720     5568    8155    7664   12728   13172   13198   13340
Operational Interest                   4386    4648      5435    5093    4774    6638    7753    7867    9042
-------------------------------------------------------------------__----
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                    10759    9368    11003   13248   12438   19366   20925   21065   22382
NET INTERNAL CASH GENERATION           -212    2367    -3703    1251    4562    4551    8182   13016   15554
Generation (Excludins BOTc)                            1561    4552   19335   21360   12125   14610    9676
Transmission                                          2287    2407    5523   10071   16215   16484   15439
Island Grid (Rural)                                   1286    1456      555     606     334     358     407
Engineering                                             814     973     826     854     761     783     895
Other & Taxes                        660e   10684     2876    3407    4952    7447    6179    5940    6194
Interest Capitalized                          497      805      680    1323    1352    2390    3780    4300
_________________________________________________________________________
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES             6609   11181     9629   13475   32513   41690   38004   41954   36912
BALANCE TO BE FINANCED                 6821    8814    13332   12224   27951   37139   29822   28938   21358
SOURCES OF FINANCE:
EQUITY CONTRIBUTIONS                    301      597     2513     854    4300    1325    1348    1372    1396
LOAN FINANCING:
Ongoing Loan.                        3789    7738      4896    9995   18973   22809    7390    2638      166
Loan Restructuring                   4694   2507       5822    5509       0       0       0       0        0
Loans under Negotiation                                   0       0    2655    5067   12778   16142   9360
Foreign Loans to be Obtained                              0       0       0    3890    5784   11458   15864
Local Loans & Proposed Bonds            0        0        0       0       0    2000    2000    1000        0
---------------------------------------_------------------------------__-
TOTAL BORROWING                        8483   10245    10718   15504   21627   33765   27952   31238   25391
TOTAL FINANCING                        8784   10842    13231   J6358   25927   35090   29300   32610   26787
INCREASE (DECREASE) CASH & TEMP.INV.  1963   2028       -101    4134   -2023   -2049    -522    3672    5429
S Capital Expend. On Not Assets         10.2S   15.5S    12.3S   14.41   28.51   30.11   25.21   24.51   19.51
Z Loan Financing of Capital Expend.     1281     921      1111    1151     671     811     741      741    691
Debt Servico Ratio                      0.98    1.25     0.66    1.09    1.37    1.24    1.39    1.62    1.69
Solf-Financing R#Lio                      -31     211     -38Z      9S     141     111     22X      311     421
Self-Financin&/AvS. 3Y Capital Exp.      -31    261       -322     71      161     121     20X      33Z    422
SOT INVESTMENTS (Private Sector):       1598       0        0    2472   10814   15167   15783   21090   38743
Estimated Ongoins BOTs                1598                    2468   10799   14806   11195         0       0
Proposed Now BOTa                                         0       4      15     361    4589   21090   38743
11 Includes the debt-buy back in 1992 of P1,823 million



- 71 -
Annex 12 - Page 3
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
NPC's Financial Projections
BALANCE STATEMENT
1989    1990     1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Fixed Assets in Operation           101836  118007   134516  183314  211858  248988  280867  319310  364771
Loes: Accumulated Depreciation       37191   45953    55993   89940   97884  110430  130201  148028  175636
NET FIXED ASSETS                       64645   72054    78523   93374  113974  138558  150666  171283  189135
Other Utility Plants (not)            1015    6089     7959    9024    8793    9350    8614    9045    7820
Work In Progress                     17026   22151    21521   18370   21358   32602   53414   66634   77491
TOTAL UTILITY PLANTS                   82686  100294   108003  120768  144125  180510  212694  246962  274446
Cash/Temp. Investments                3801    4764     4233    5005    2982      933     411    4083    9512
Accounts Receivable (Not)             2627    3695     3907    4029    4644    5280    6171    7625    9422
Other Account Receivable (Not)        1555    1782     1739    1477    1524    1552    1569    1577    1580
Materials Inventories                 3192    3028     3914    4149    4491    4816    5141    5476    5832
Fuel Inventories                       283     944      981    2767      811     899    1038    1390    1634
Advances, Prepayments & Others        1397     420      396    1635      800     816     832      849     866
---------------------------------------------------------------------__--
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                   12855   14633    15170   19062   15253   14297   15163   20999   28846
Overdue Tax Refunds Receivable                  4610      7155   10253    9253    7253    3253        0       0
Deferred Chargos (*)                    5005    5134     4290    3510    3494    3478    3462    3446    3446
Due From Nuclear Power Plant           33658   33658    33658   33658   33658   33658   33658   33658   33658
Othor Assets                            1788    2130      1809    1262    1380    1488    1603    1728    1863
TOTAL ASSETS                          135992  160460   170085  188513  207163  240683  269832  306794  342258
Acc.Payables & Accrued Expenses       3927    7781     8800   10698   11394   13978   15193   18235   21278
Notes Payable                          190     140        0    1444      179     210     249      766     996
Interest Payable                      2459    3986     5467    8325    7236    5381    5381    5381    5381
Other & Short Torm Loans               451     670      738      672     761     855     955    1065    1187
Tax and Dividends Payable                0       0        0       0.       0       0       0        0       0
----------------------------------------------------__-------------------
TotaL Accounts Payable                  7027   12577    15004   21139   19571   20424   21778   25447   28842
Current Portion Long-Tozm Debt          5247    8210     6773   10373   11969   12616   12750   13073   12754
-----------------------------------_-----------------------------__------
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES              12274   20787    21777   31512   31540   33039   34528   38520   41596
Advances due to Government                 0    1957      3614       0       0       0        0       0       0
Deferred Credits                        2767    2038     2040    2509    2374    2239    2104    1969    1834
Due to Nuclear Power Plant             33658   33658    33658   33658   33658   33658   33658   33658   33658
TOTAL LONG-TERM  DEBT (Not)            52740   69108    72247   61733   85117  115798  134212  156054  172821
Gross Foreign Loans                  57806   77137    78839   71925   96906  126233  142781  163946  180394
Gross Local Loans                      181     181      181      181     181    2181    4181    5181    5181
Minus: Current Maturities             5247    8210     6773   10373   11969   12616   12750   13073   12754
OTMBE  LONG-TERM DETS                      0       0         0       0       0       0        0       0       0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                     101439  127548   133337  129413  152690  184735  204502  230201  249910
Capital                              15779   12092    17292   15633   19079   16104   16127   16151   16175
Retained Earnings                     4454    5528      419    4873    7810   12294   17135   23932   34798
Revaluation Surplus                  14320   15292    19037   38594   27584   27551   32068   36510   41376
-----------------------------_-----------------------------------__------
TOTAL EQUITY                           34553   32911    36748   59101   54473   55948   65330   76593   92349
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES          135992  160460   170085  188513  207163  240683  269832  306794  342258
Current Ratio                            105S     705       701     601     48X     43X      44Z     551     69X
Debt Equity Ratio                         601     681       661     511     611     671      67X     671     651
# Days Accounts Receivable (Not)          47      52        44      39      38      33       34      33      33
# Days Accounts Payable (Net)            241     289       226     325     256     204      184     167     148



- 72 -
Annex 13
Phflippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
NPC'S Monitoring Indicators
1989   1990    1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__------------------------------
ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS:
___________________________
Total Energy Sales (GWh)             22244  22915   23599  23911  27122  29294   31531  34393  37034
Not Sales (Excl.Magellan & Test-Run)  22244  22915   23192  23743  26467  28916  30293   33111  34606
Power Sold/Total Pop. (Kwh/person)     370    373       375    372    414    438    462    494    522
MANAGEMENT/EFFICIENCY:
-__------------------------
# Days Accounts Receivable              47      52       44     39      39      38      38      38      38
Z Receivables on Billing              12.7X  14.3X   12.1X  10.6X  10.6Z  10.51   10.52   10.51   10.51
Total Number Employees              12,954  11,349   11696  14,162  13.976  13,996  14,017  14,038  14,297
# of Operational Employees          11,413  9,604    9604  12,129  11,943  11,943  11,943  11,943  12,182
Personnel Cost on Revenues            5.73X  4.68X   4.70X  4.41X  3.75X  3.37Z  3.08X  2.71X  2.78X
Sales per Oper. Employee (Mh)         1949   2386    2415   1958   2216   2421   2536   2772   2841
Z Total Energy Losses                  7.71   7.61    7.21   7.2X   7.31   7.41   7.4X   7.31    7.41
FINANCIAL RATIOS:
Average Tariff - P/Kwh                0.93   1.12    1.40   1.59   1.75   1.97   2.22   2.49   2.84
Average Tariff Increase P/Kwh       -0.009  0.198   0.271  0.193  0.166  0.212  0.252  0.268  0.357
Average Tariff - USc/KWh               4.2    4.7       5.2    5.9    6.2    6.4    7.0    7.5    8.3
Working Ratio 1                      53.21  64.2X   74.61  63.11  59.01  58.42  57.41  58.71   57.81
Operating Ratio 21                    74.31  84.01   92.21  83.51  79.61  78.91  78.01  78.41  78.11
Rate of Return-NPC's Charter 31        7.81   5.8X    3.3X   5.8X   7.7Z   7.71   7.71   7.71   7.7X
Rate of Return on Revaled Assets  4]   8.01   6.01    3.41   6.11   8.0X   8.01   8.01   8.01   8.01
Return on Capital Employed  5]         5.01  -4.41   -14.91   -1.91   3.52   5.01   6.01   7.92   7.81
Net Profit on Equity                   4.8X  -0.21   -7.91   1.91   6.81   6.61   7.52   8.91   9.81
Self-Financing Ratio (3-Year Avg.) 6   -171      11    -541      71    20X    151    251    361    681
Debt Service Coverage 71              0.90   1.01    0.54    1.11   1.47   1.35   1.59   1.73   2.44
Interest Coverage  81                 1.48   0.97    0.45   1.15   1.65   1.55   1.55   1.54   1.72
Debt/Equity Ratio  9]                 60.41  67.71   66.11  44.51  51.61  55.51  57.31   58.41  57.01
IN CONSTANT 1992 PRICES:
--__-----------------------
Average Tariff - P/Kwh                1.30   1.42    1.52   1.59   1.64   1.73   1.84   1.95   2.09
Real Tariff Increase (Decrease)       -6.81   9.21    6.82   4.51   3.21   5.21   6.41   6.21   6.91
CRITICAL FINANCIAL INDICATORS BETWEEN 1993-1998.
----------------------------------------------------------__-----------------__------------------------------
VARIABLE OR INDICATOR                MINIMUM AVERAGE MAXIMUM       VARIABLE OR INDICATOR    MINIMUM AVERAG
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__------------------------------
Cash-Mill.Pesos                       3631   4224    4901          Debt Service Ratio          1.3    1.9
Average Tariff - P/Kwh                1.64   1.88    2.09          Days Accounts Receivable    38       38
Working ratio                         57.41  58.21   59.01         Total Debt/Equity Ratio    51.61  55.42
Rate of Return (Revalued)              8.01   8.01    8.01
-----------------..------------------------------------------------__--------__-------------------------------
13 Operational expenses excluding depreciation / operational revenues
23 Total operational expenses (including depreciation & prov. for d/a)
divided by operational revenues
31 Operating income on net average fixed assets plus one sixth
of cash operating expenditures.
41 Operating income on net average revalued fixed assets in operation
53 Profit before interest and taxes / total equity and reserves
63 Cash available from operations / 3-year average capital expenditures
71 Operating cash flow divided by debt service (principal plus
operational interest)
8l Profit before interest and taxes / total interest (operational and
capitalized)
9] Long-term debt / (long-term debt plus total equity)



- 73 -
Annex 14 - Page 1
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Assumptions for NPC's Financial Projections
1         Inflation. It is estimated that the annual (January-December) increase in local
consumer prices will be about 7% p.a. and that foreign price increases would average 3.7% p.a.
The exchange rate of F128 per US dollar is assumed for end-1993. Purchase power parity is
assumed thereafter.
Financial Computer Models
2.         The planning and financial projections for NPC are based on financial projection
models prepared during the appraisal which include the following main four programs:
generation and other capital expenditures program (CAPEX), transmnission expenditures
(TRANS), demand forecast (DEMAND) and the resulting integrated financial projections system
(NPC). These programs produce more than 300 pages of financial tables, which are included in
the ProJect File. The project cost and economic analysis are separated Lotus models. Only some
of the main summary tables are included in this report. NPC is already using these programs for
its financial planning.
Load Forecast
3.         NPC's load forecast is based on an analysis of recent sales, surveys of mnain
industrial users, and correlations between general and manufacturing GDP with increases in
power sales, income and price elasticity. This is adequate to determine long-trend patterns and
the capacity of future systems. However, there are large outages at present, and a key and
difficult question is the projection of sales for the next few months. For this purpose the new
systems coming into operation and monthly analysis of the actual sales has been carried out. The
results are presented in Annex 3.
4.         By agreement with COA, the sales attributable to the first months of operation of
new plants (three months for gas turbines, 6 months for other plants) are considered "Test-Run",
and the respective revenues and costs are not included as operational and are shown as a non-
operational item (Income from Test-Run plants). The corresponding assets and depreciation are
also not included in the rate of return.
Income Statement
5.         Energy Losses and In Plant Use. The total energy losses and the energy use by the
generating plants average 7.8% (but is higher in Visayas, which is 100% thermal generation), of
which plant use is about 4.3%. Transmission losses are estimated at 3.5%, and are expected to
continue to this level until the interconnection with Visayas will increase overall losses by about
0.5%.
6.         Tariff Revenues. The power reverues are based on existing tariffs, and the required
increases to comply with the 8 % rate of return on revalued assets. At the moment taxes on oil
have been exempted, but should the Supreme Court decide NPC is liable for them, they will also



- 74 -
Annex 14 - Page 2
be incorporated in the operational expenses. It is expected that the tax exemption will be
confirmned, and that NPC would recoup previous taxes during the next four years. The average
tariff is different for each of the main systems (Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao, as well as other
not-interconnected islands). Therefore the revenues are based on the forecast sales for each
system at their average tariff.
7.         Other Revenues. NPC has already approved an automatic indexing of its tariff with
oil prices, which would be shown separately in this line, when applicable.
Operational Expenses
8.         Fuel. The main operational cost is fuel, which represents about two thirds of the
direct operational expenses. The fuel quantity and cost is estimated from the results of a WASP
optimization of the generating plants and the load factor of each plant. No increases in oil prices
have been included, because they would be automatically compensated by tariff increases when
they materialize. Both diesel and fuel oil (and Bunker) prices are now at a low level and expected
to be increased soon. The utilization of diesel fuel is expected to return to more normal levels on
1993, once other plants are available at lower costs.
9.         Personnel. Ni-C has been reducing its staff during the last two years (by about 2,000
persons) and retirements and natural attrition is expected to maintain increases in the number of
staff at a minimum. At the moment the salaries of many staff are much higher than the levels
approved under a Salary Standardization Law approved in 1990. As a result many staff,
regardless of inflation may not have salary increases for several year, which is creating a serious
drainage of qualified persomel and is making difficult to find suitable staff replacement. Under
the Power Crisis Act of 1993, the President was authorized to improve NPC's staff salaries to
levels comparable with the private sector.
10.       BOT/BTO Exoenses. NPC has signed many contracts for purchasing power from the
private sector (BOT), for tum-key contracts for construction and financing, with operation and
maintenance contracts thereafter, and for other types of contracts (rehabilitation and leasing,
leasing of plants, etc.). All these contracts are generally expressed as fixed charges in US
dollars, alnost regardless of the actual utilization, and will have to be paid (take-or-pay) even if
adequate hydro or cheaper generation alternatives are available. The purchase cost (based on the
details of each contract) is expected to increase from P0.9 billion in 1992 to P5 billion in 1993
and P 12 billion by 1995 and P26 billion in 1997. Moreover, about P20 billion per year are
expected to be financed by private investors (BOT plants). VAT taxes have to be paid on these
purchases. The indexation in foreign currency largely increase NPC's foreign exchange exposure.
11.       Other Expenses. The cost of geothermal steam and local coal is based on take-or pay
contracts. The several of the new coal plants planned for the future will use imported coal at
international prices.
12.       Depreciation. NPC's average depreciation rate varies with the composition of the
assets entering into operation, and is forecast to average about 3.6% p.a. Assets out of operation
for rehabilitation are excluded temporarily of the rate base and are not depreciate for that period.
However, NPC's did revalued its assets only partially until 1991 and would include the overdue
revaluation in 1992; this distort the results for previous years, particularly for 1991, when the
rate of return would have been 1% instead of the 2.8% audited and the net income would losses
of 05 billion instead of P3 billion. The financial projections in the appraisal include fully



- 75 -
Annex 14 - Page 3
revalued assets and depreciation starting from 1992 (to avoid changing all previously reported
financial statements).
13.       Income Taxes. NPC pays only withholding taxes on interest and VAT on some
goods and services. NPC has been granted an exemption on VAT and duties on oil (about P3.2
billion in 1992), which was ratified recently by the Supreme Court. Therefore, NPC is not
including these taxes on its operational costs. However, its has been almost impossible to obtain
the refund of such taxes paid during the last three years (P 10 billion by end-1992) and there is a
demand in the Supreme Court to void NPC exemption. If the previous ruling is reversed, this
would reduce NPC's cash in the future, but this would be partially compensated by the automatic
inclusion of the tax in future bills.
Flow of Funds
14.       Investment Program. NPC's investment program includes many subprojects in
generation, transmission and other facilities. Although, NPC is confident that the remaining
approvals for several large plants would be confirmed soon, they may experience further delays.
NPC expects to increase its average capital expenditures from about P 10 billion during the last
three years to about P40 billion during the next three years. This requires so much logistic,
counter part funding and coordination, that may not fully materialize. Therefore, although the
projections maintain NPC's detailed forecast, it would be realist to assume that actual
investments would not exceed 80% of the forecasted amounts. This, however, excludes the
ongoing and planned BTOs by the private sector.
15.       Rural Electrification and Small Island Contributions. Rural consumers are scattered
and are expensive to serve. To ensure that such less-profitable investments are made, the
Government provides about P 1 billion per year as equity contributions; this is expected to
continue in the future.
16.       Equity Increase. Equity contributions include P3 billion in 1993 (from OPSF) and
P300 million per year from PAGCOR.
17.       Debt Service. NPC debt is largely foreign (96%) and includes official donors
(IBRD, ADB, J-EXIM), bilateral loans and suppliers credits in twelve different currencies. The
largest share of the foreign debt is in Yen, which represents about 55% of the loans balance in
1992. NPC has been concerned about the large impact of the revaluation of the Yen may have on
its fiaces, but there are no measures that can be taken for alleviating this risk. NPC has been
exempted for the last five years of the payment of the interest or principal under the original
schedule of loans that have been restructured under Paris Club agreements. This has resulted in a
postponement, with interest on parts of its debt service. No further restructuring is envisioned
beyond 1992. NPC also use the debt package as an opportunity to buy back about $132 million
of its foreign loans in 1992.
18.             Financial Plan. The overall financing plan includes several loans already
approved but not yet disbursed (Calaca, Masinloc, J-EXIM etc.) as well as the BTO loans. A
large percentage of the 1994 financing are loans under negotiation or consideration (for example
the Leyte-Luzon and Leyte-Cebu), which, if not materialized would make impossible to carry out
the respective investments.



- 76 -
Annex 14 - Page 4
Balance Statement
19.       Fixed Assets and Revaluation. The government accounting allow the revaluation of
assets which is carried out every four years. However, the full results of the revaluation prepare
by AACI and later verified by Beca Worley, were only incorporated in 1992, because of
different errors in the appraisal and valuation of assets. A new study is underway to establish a
more accurate base for the rate of return. Between revaluations NPC uses a "trending" system
based on estimating the increase in costs for foreign equipment resulting from foreign inflation
and exchange rates, and wholesale price changes for local costs. This system is adequate. A new
revaluation by consultants is underway and will be completed by end-1993.
20.        Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable for MERALCO at one month and for
others at 55 days; and allowance for doubtful debts is computed on the overdue balances of the
RECs.
21.        Inventories for operation, includes spare parts and fuel inventories (20 days for fuel
oil, 15 days for diesel and 45 days for coal).
22.        Accounts Payable. These are based on estimated 45 days payable to PNOC (for
steam and oil) and Semirara (for coal). Other accounts are expected to be paid within 30 days,
but are assumed at 45 days, based on actual practice.
23.        Notes Payable, represent three-months coal importation plus any exchange rate
differential.
24.        Interest Payable is due for the Government cash advances (at Treasury Bill rates);
overdue payments are expected to be normalized by 1993.
25.        Bataan Nuclear Plant. NPC shows in its assets and liabilities a nominal value of
R33.6 billion for this plant. NPC employ about 100 persons on the security and maintenance of
the plant. Should the plant be reactivated, if inclusion on NPC's fixed assets and liabilities should
be at the alternative cost of a coal plant of similar capacity.



- 77-
Annex 15
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
NPC's "Fast Track" Generation Program
Economic Analysis
Hillom 1992 Pesos
-----------------------_------------------------------------------__---------__-----------_--------__-------------------
Year   Fixod   Trans-    ----- Power Sales GM ----       Fuel  0 & M       Total Sales Sales       Not   +Outa.  Net
Cost  Aission                   ABB/            Cost   Cost    Cost   GWM  Revenue Benefit  Coast    Benefit
Mill. P          ENRON    ES1   MARUNBEN TOTAL                                   at P/kWh  from   Avoided +Outage
3.51   1.66  Sales            Costs
Losese
1992             226                                                      226                                        0
1993    2977    1924     391     692    1893    2977    2151      120   7172    2873    4942   -2231             -2231
1994    5954     614     782    1385    3786    5954    4303     240   11110    5745    9883   -1227      1950     723
1995    5954             782    1385    3786    5954    4303     240   10496    5745    9883    -613      5200    4587
1996    5954             322     526    3786    4634    3124      91   9169    4472    7693   -1475              -1475
1997    5954             322     526    3786    4634    3124      91    9169    4472    7693   -1475             -1475
1998    5954             322     526    3786    4634    3124       91    9169    4472    7693   -1"75            -1475
1999    5954             322     526    3786    4634    3124       91    9169    4472    7693   -1475            -1475
2000    5954             322     526    3786    4634    3124       91    9169    4472    7693   -1475            -1475
2001    5954             322     526    3786    4634    3124       91    9169    4472    7693   -1475             -1475
2002    5954             322     526    3786    4634    3124       91   9169    4472    7693   -1475             -1475
2003    595-             322     526    3786    4634    3124       91   9169    4472    7693   -1475              -1475
2004    517i             322     526    3786    4634    3124       91    8386    4472    7693    -693              -693
2005    5171             322            3786    4109    2583        0    7754    3965    6820    -934              -934
2006    3786             322            3786    4109    2583        0    6369    3965    6820     451               451
2007    3786             322            3786    4109    2583      300    6669    3965    6820     151               151
2008    3786             322            3786    4109    2583      300    6669    3965    6820     151               151
2009                     322            3786    4109    2583      500    3083    3965    6820    3737              3737
2010                     322            3786    4109    2583      500   3083    3965    6820    3737               3737
2011                     322            3786    4109    2583      500    3083    3965    6820    3737              3737
2012                     322            3786    4109    2583      500    3083    3965    6820    3737              3737
2013                     322            3786    4109    2583      500   3083    3965    6820    3737               3737
Present Values at Discount Rates Shown
----------------------------.---------------_--------------------__-.--------__----------------_-------.--.-------------
10.0X  38033    2257    3250    4627   28206   36083   24546    1302   66137   34820   59898   -6033      5017   -1017
12.0X  33294    2173    2850    4199   24056   31105   21244    1083   57794   30016   51634   -5958      4693   -1265
14.01  29358    2093    2526    3828   20754   27107   18582      918   50950   26158   44998   -5754     4395   -1359
----_---------------------------------------_----_--,-------------__---------__----------------------------_------------
Internal rats of return:        For a tariff of P1.66/kWh              1X
For a tariff of P1.84/kWh           lX
Including the cost of outa&ea
Internal rate of return:        For a tariff of P1.66/kWh              72
Including Outass Costs          For a tariff of P1.84/kWh            136X
Asaumpt4ons:                    ENRO    ESr  A3/maRUmENI
Capacity WM                        105     200      600
Fixed Capital Fee, Mll. Pccos      782    1385    3786
O a M Fee P/kWh                  0.000   0.173   0.000
Fuel Cost PAWh                   0.641   1.029   0.628
Plant Factor (Mazicmu)            85.01   79.0X   72.0X
Plant Factor After 1995           30.01   79.0X   72.01



- 78 -
Anne: 16 - Page 1
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
NPC's Tariffs
Demand Charges (P/kW)
Luzon                    .-_                                                 _
Initial     P/kW          Next        P/kW         Over          P/kW
Demand                   Demand    _
Utilities         500 kW       13.20       19,500 kW      17.60      20,nAY kW    24.20
Non-Utilities     1,000 kW     19.80       9,000 kW      20.90        10,000       22.11
Energy Charges (P/kWh)
Utilities         200 kWh      1.7714      200 kWh        1.7934     400 kWh       1.8176
Non-Utilities     200 kWh      1.8539      250 kWh        1.8154     450 kWh       1.7824
Demand Charges (P/kW)
Cebu                         __=-
Initial     P/kW          Next        P/kW         Over          P/kW
Demand                   Demand
Utilities         100 kW       15.40       900 kW         18.70       1,000 kW     22.00
Non-Utilities     100 kW       25.30       100 kW        20.90        10,000       22.11
Energy Charges (P/kWh)
Utilities         100 kWh      1.8688       150 kWh       1.9035      250 kWh    | 1.9416
Non-Utilities     300 kWh      1.9612                                 300 kWh    j_1.9497
.  ~=      .                  =       -
Demand Charges (P/kW)
Negros                                              -
Initial     P/kW          Next        PAkW         Over          P/kW
Demand  |                Demand      _
All Consumers     200 kW       13.20                                  200 kW       13.20
Energy Charges (P/kWh)
All Consumers     100 kWh      1.9125       150 kWh       1.9345      250 kWh      1.9785



- 79 -
Annex 16 - Page 2
Demand Charges (P/kW)
Panay
Initial     P/kW          Next         P1kW         Over         P/kW
Demand                    Demand
Utilities         100 kW        15.40       900 kW         18.70       1,000 k -7    22.00
Non-Utilities     100 kW        25.30     L__100 kW                                 22.00
___________               Energy Charges (P/kWh)
Utilities         100 kWh       1.8802      150 kWh        1.9149      250 kWh      1.9530
Non-Utilities     300 kWh       1.9726         _       _               300 kWh      1.9611
-  - 0                                  Demand Charges (PlkW)
Bohol
Initial     P/kW          Next         P/kW         Over         P/kW
Demand                    Demand
All Customers     200 kW        13.20                                  200 kW       11.00
Energy Charges (P/kWh)
AJI Customers      100 kWh      1.9134      150 kWh  :11.9354          250 kWh      199
Demand Charges (P/kW)
tnitial     P/kW          Next         P/kW         Over    |   P/kW
Demand   _                Demand    _            __|__
Industries         1000 kW      15.84       9,000 kW       16.72       10,000kW   117.69
_________                Energy Charges (P/kWh)
Industries       T 200 kWh    [1.7501       250 kWh        1.7193      450 kWh      1.6929
Non-Industries    | Any kWh   | 1.9735     ______ 
=               1     =



Annex 16 - Page 3
Demand Charges (P/kW)
Mindanao
Initial     P/kW         Next         P/kW        Over         P/kW
Demand                   Demand
Utilities         500 kW       11.00      4,500 kW       15.95      5,000 kW     19.80
Non-Utilities     1000 kW      19.80      4000 kW       20.90        15,000 kW    25.30
10,000 kW    23.10
Energy Charges (P/kWh)
Utilities         100 kWh     0.9169      200 kWh       0.9499      300 kWh      0.9719
Non-Utilities     lOC kWh      0.9829     150 kWh       0.9719      450 kWh      0.9499
200 kW       0.9609



- 81 -
Annex 17 - Page 1
Philippines
Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project
Terms of Reference
LUZON GRID EHV TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
DEVELOPMENT STUDY
Background
1.         Several transmission expansion studies have been performed for the Luzon Grid in the
last five to ten years either by NAPOCOR or through foreign consultants. All of them have either
concluded or assumed the development of a 500 kV EHV network in their design alternatives. The
high cost of EHV components, coupled with the decelerated load growth and changes in the
generation expansion plans requires a reassessment of NAPOCOR's position on this matter.
Therefore, a critical review of the transmission expansion plans by qualified experts in EHV
transmission planning and design is necessary.
2.         In line with this undertaking, NAPOCOR desires upgrading of its analytical tools for
transmission planning. These consist of an update of the power system analysis software package
(PSS/E), including incorporation of electromagnetic transient analysis as appropriate, and
acquisition of two new high-performance microcomputers to enhance planning efficiency and
speed.
Objective
3.         The objective of this study is to determine/verify the feasibility of developing an EHV
network for the Luzon (Crid and formulate an optimum schedule for superimposing the EHV
system on the existing 230 kV network.
4.         It is also the objective of this project to upgrade the analytical tools for transmission
planning anti to provide technology transfer to NAPOCOR engineers in this field.
Methodology
5.         The experts shall review the present network expansion plans for the Luzon Grid and
their proposed integration with Visayas by 1996 and with Mindanao by 1998. They shall direct and
supervise the performance of system studies, system design and cost evaluations, by NAPOCOR
planning and engineering design groups.
6.         Should the development of an EHV network be found feasible, the experts shall
formulate an optimum transition plan to upgrade from 230 kV to EHV and its subsequent
development. They shall also undertake development of the 230 kV system up to the point of
inicorporation of the EHV system. Alternative scenarios shall be considered with regard to demand
gro-wt and the timing and location of new geneiating capacity.



- 82 -
Annex 17 - Page 2
7.         In the process, the experts shall look into all the engineering aspects of the expansion
studies including among others: (a) basic system parameters; (b) system reactive control
requirements; and (c) optimization of costs of EHV transmission lines and substations including
sizing of transformers based on transport and other limitations).
8.         The experts shall work closely with NAPOCOR engineers to achieve an effective
transfer of technology in the field of EHV transmission planning and design. Informal lectures,
tutorial or course documents shall be provided by the experts.
Scope of Work
9.         The consultant should complete the following analysis and provide reports and
recommendations for improving the existing system and its expansion in the future:
A. Power System Simulations
Load flow
Stability
Short Circuit
Electromagnetic Transients (Optional)
B. Specific Investigations
Reactive Power Compensation of EHV Network
EHV Transformer Sizing and Specifications
EHV Transmission Line Design Optimization
EHV Insulation Coordination
Autoreclosing of EHV Lines
Reinforcement of MERALCO 230 kV Ring
Scheduling of EHV Network Expansior Plans
C.   Informal discussions and/or lectures on subjects related to system planning and
design.
D.   Supply of Analytical Tools for Transmission Planning
Power System Simulation/Engineering (PSS/E) Software Latest Workstation Version
with Loadflow Enhancement
Workstation microcomputer systems.
Reports and Documents
'0.        NAPOCOR would provide the consultant access to all relevant transmission
information, studies and development plans as well as the approved Power Development Program.
11.        The consultant will complete the following reports:
(a)   Pertinent infornation/documents/publications related to transmission planning and
design.- to be provided within 30 days of the contract signing.



- 83 -
Annex 17 - Page 3
(b)  Operation/maintenance manuals and application guides for software and hardware
tools for transmission planning - to be provided within 45 days of the contract
signing.
(c)   Preliminary, Draft and Final Reports of Technical Study - to be provided within 180
days of the contract signing. The Draft Report would be reviewed and commented by
NAPOCOR and the World Bank within the following 30 days.
(d)  Presentation of Final Report to NAPOCOR Management - to be completed within 60
days thereafter.
Approximate Project Efforts and Material Costs
(a) Transmission Planning Expert                       3 staff-months
(b) EHV Transmission Design Expert 1                   I staff-month
(c) PSS/E Software Upgrade                             $ 25,000
(d) Workstation Computer System and laser printer      $ 45,000



- 84 -
Annex 18 - Page 1
Philippines
Power Tranmssion and Rehabilitation Project
Documents on Project File
1.       NPC's Reform Program
2.       NPC's Organizational Transition Report May 1992
3.       NPC's demand forecast.
4.       NPC's Financial Projections: (About 150 pages of tables for Generation Investments,
Transmission Investments, Debt, operation expenses and fmancial statements).
5.       Energy Sector Plan.
6.       Bataan Thermal Plant. Rehabilitation Study.



IBRD 20239R
~~~~~~~A. . .4 __,,e t#b
/>9   Slun9on   Sne ,^)                           ~~~~~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~Chinaco
S  \~~~~~~~~~o
dtP~   urlLOEs /          ''         ! Philippine Sea Ir                  ,IV/s
JI' *EGI9N                     no
tt SnJIU*d    oi   >  & iTuguepm a        SOo  So       M|IANAO
Ernieo.      lSBUhl nj.''   u CAyGAYAN                            ___.
S++ t,B                 TLA|_                                                               l4
-,  *Sogada  -Rox;    REGION
PHILIPPINES
LUZON GRID POWER STATION
SW fw                                       ba,pi sCa         AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
k*AS)fl**     Bi~W         0                                     P- "IOlA   71E4
OTHER   SANK   POWER
/    9  'J EXISTING  P!OJECTS  PROJECTS PROJECTS
!-                -        -        -   230 kV TRANSMISSION tINES
t *    e-r d. -,S? s        y  C'I TRAL               -                               s115 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
<  Son CorloNTR:             \ /               A    L            ....... ----.--.-.-..-.-~~- 69 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
,uno, <   _erobo   LUZON                           A        A    230 kV SUBSTATIONS
\^\   |   sPoniqul                        A        L;.      a       A    115 kV SLIBSTATIONS
ZA NI         tES   i AT~rwIrc 14 |  -",it;;b   zREGION                       *                     69 kV SUBSTATIONS
REG-   , ols        VOA   ai                                                 m ;                  HYDRO POWER PLANTS
REGlq!                               ea,,                                                         THERMAL POWER PLANTS
NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS
n . voA  Aj 8 00   t  v EGATn<1      )v  p                         _-  PROVINCE BOUNDARIEC
On   P at  2I bMW \  ' t  _- REGION BOUNDARIES
9    50         190~~~)g   150
South    P-1 04 sw                \                                P0 KJLOMETERS
Sea                                     RY
aREGION
wz <                      GUNA                       - \                 -
_          -                 ~~REGtO"r<                            s_;;S  
__       .,.                                                            ' I '_fk        8
_'-",,,,.,          f  MINDORO         '                                  '_        ,/      :. *on
CAUA VAN "Gud
APRIL 1990



