                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                               Report No: 83241




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                        PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                      OF
                     ZOONOSES CONTROL PROJECT (ZCP) PROJECT

         THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION AVIAN AND HUMAN INFLUENZA
           TRUST FUND (EC-AHI) FOR EAST AND SOUTH (TF 012273)



                                                TO THE

                                    GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL


                                          November 21, 2013




Sustainable Development Sector
Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




AHIF              Avian Human Influenza Facility
DoLS              Department of Livestock Services
EC                European Commission
HPED              Highly Pathogenic Emerging Diseases
NZCP              Nepal Zoonosis Control Project
PDO               Project Development Objective
RETF              Recipient Executed Trust Fund
RRT               Rapid Response Team




 Regional Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houerou
       Country Director:        Johannes C.M. Zutt
        Sector Manager:         Simeon Kacau Ehui
      Task Team Leader:         Purna Bahadur Chhetri




                            2
              NEPAL – ZOONOSES CONTROL PROJECT (P130089)

                               TRUST FUND TF012273

                               RESTRUCTING PAPER

1.      This paper proposes restructuring of the Nepal Zoonosis Control Project (NZCP) in
response to recent request by the Government of Nepal dated September 4, 2013 to add a
new category “Compensation” for effective control of Avian Flu outbreaks in Nepal. The
project development objective (PDO) and result indicators remain unchanged.

2.      The development objective of the project is to enhance the country capacity for
the prevention and control of infectious diseases that transmit between animals and
humans (zoonoses) under a One Health approach. This is to be achieved through two
types of interventions: planning and preparedness; and prevention with the aim of reducing
the burden of disease in animals, the consequent economic losses, the risk of human
infection, and the loss of productivity attributable to animal and human infections in Nepal.

3.     The project is financed by a grant in the amount of US$10 million, approved on July
5, 2012, from Avian Human Influenza Facility (AHIF), with all the contributions made by
European Commission (EC). The total disbursement under this Recipient Executed TF, as of
October 31, 2013 is USD 2.79 million.

4.      Progress to date includes effective control of 152 Avian Flu outbreaks since the virus
first appeared in 2010. In this context, the capacity developed by NZCP and its predecessor
Avian Flu Influenza Control Project (AICP) in surveying, containing and controlling the flu
has been well appreciated by the Government of Nepal. Other notable progresses include
the identification of 6 priority zoonotic diseases and 9 priority climate sensitive diseases,
training of nearly 8000 farmers on the prevention and control of zoonotic diseases, and an
additional 600 farmers on biosecurity measures. A total of 43,817 livestock have been
inspected at various quarantine posts. On the operational side, all the procurement,
monitoring and evaluation and safeguards related activities are progressing as planned.

5.      This fiscal year (FY14) saw a rapid emergence of Avian Flu, one of the six zoonotic
diseases identified as priority. In less than three months, there have been 86 outbreaks,
mostly in the popular districts namely Chitwan, Kathmandu, Lalitpur and Bhaktapur and the
number is increasing. Twenty-three rapid response teams (RRT), comprising animal health
specialists and vets, have been mobilized to the areas of contamination for the proper
containment of the outbreaks. No human cases of avian flu (H5N1 virus) have been reported
thus far. Responding to these outbreaks; 387,869 birds, 757,558 eggs, 37 Kg of meat, and
50,823 Kg of feeds have been destroyed and disposed. This is a serious loss, particularly for
the smallholder farmers engaged in poultry business. The government has already spent
USD 520,000 on compensation but the amount is far from sufficient to effectively and
immediately cull and contain the disease. Without compensation, poultry farmers are not
willing to report the disease for economic reasons, thus increasing the risk of further spread
and transmission to human beings as well.



                                            3
6.     At the time of the preparation of NZCP the extent and scale of the resurgence of
Avian Flu was not expected at the level it is seen today - hence, an oversight in including
funds under culling operations and cash compensation. Further, though the Government of
Nepal has made funds available to compensate for culling operations, it is still financially
constrained to effectively and systematically contain the spread of the disease. Hence, the
request for simple restructuring to include a category “cash compensation” in the Grant
Agreement to enable the project to compensate, retroactive to April 4, 2013 when the Avian
Flu outbreaks intensified. .

7.      The disbursement procedures, key controls and fund flow arrangement will follow
the established guideline of the Government which was assessed and found adequate under
the closed Avian Flu Project and is articulated in the Project Appraisal Document for the
Nepal Zoonosis Control Project. The same procedure will continue for this. At the
operational level, disbursement is based upon: 1) proper examination of the birds to
ascertain that the birds are infected with Avian Flu, 2) culled birds are disposed properly
following standard procedure, 3) collection of proper records and receipts from the
recipients of compensation and 4) award of certificate to farmers who have participated in
culling operations. Payment so far has been made by the Government of Nepal which will
be reimbursed once this new category is created through amendment of the legal document.
Proposed reallocation is done by taking the amount from Training category to add to this
new category. The Bank’s financial management team visited the Project to randomly
check the incurred expenditures to ensure that the established procedure as mentioned in the
Guidelines of the Government has been followed. Based on random verification of a
sample of expenditures, the team confirmed that the procedure has been followed with
required control measure in place.

8.      This Restructuring Paper, therefore, proposes creation of a new category
“Compensation” for reallocation of USD 886,000 from Category “Training” to the newly
established Category. Table 1 summarizes the actual and proposed allocation of funds.

9.     The definition of “Compensation” may be read as “Control and Compensation: 1)
carry out surveillance, control and containment of spread of priority zoonotic diseases
namely Avian Flu, Leptospirosis, Brucellosis, Taxoplasmosis, Cysticercosis, Hydatidosis
and compensation of culled birds/animals as part of control operation. Compensation, when
occurred, will be made based on the norm established by the Government of Nepal”.


Proposed category of expenses
     CATEGORY                      Amount of the Grant Allocated          Percentage of
                                       (expressed in USD)               Expenditure to be
                                                                       Financed (exclusive
                                                                            of taxes)
                                     (Original)        (Proposed)
 1    Goods                        4,237,610            4,238,000         100%
 2    Works                          769,250              769,000         100%
 3    Consultant Services          2,092,880            2,093,000         100%
 4    Training                     2,103,260            1,217,000         100%

                                            4
 5      Incremental Operating      797,000                             797,000   100%
        Cost
 6      Cash compensation                -                            886,000    100%
                          Total 10,000,000                         10,000,000
Note: The Grant will not finance local taxes, duties and anti-viral drugs.




                                                      5
