OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
The World Bank                                       Nepal Country Office
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Lal Durbar          Telex: 2228 INDEVA NP
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                Yak & Yeti Hotel Complex  Telephone: 4226792, 4439571
Kathmandu, Nepal      Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
KATHMANDU
Postal Address: P.O. Box 798
December 20, 2013
Mr. Shanta Raj Subedi
Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Singha Durbar, Kathmandu
Nepal
Dear Mr. Subedi:
NEPAL: Zoonoses Control Project (TF012273)
Amendment to the European Commission Avian And Human Influenza Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
We refer to the Grant Agreement for the Zoonoses Control Project between Nepal (the
"Recipient") and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International
Development Association (collectively the "World Bank"), acting as administrator of the European
Commission Avian and Human Influenza Trust Fund, dated July 5, 2012 (the "Grant Agreement"). We
also refer to you letter dated September 4, 2013 requesting the World Bank to amend the Grant
Agreement to include an additional activity to be financed by the Grant, and reallocate funds between
Categories to cover the expenses related to said activity.
We are pleased to inform you that the World Bank concurs with your request, and hereby
amends the Grant Agreement as set out below in this letter of amendment (the "Letter of
Amendment").
I.    In Schedule 1 of the Grant Agreement,, a new activity is added as follows:
"Part F. Compensations to Eligible Poultry Farmers
Provide cash and in-kind compensations for culled birds to affected poultry farmers to
contain the spread of priority zoonotic diseases, namely Avian Flu, Leptospirosis,
Brucellosis, Taxoplasmosis, Cysticercosis, and Hydatidosis."
2.    In Schedule 2, Section I., sub-paragraph A.3 is amended to read as follows:
(a) The Recipient, through DoLS, shall: (i) implement the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the Operations Manual; and (ii) not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or
permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, said Manual, or any provision
thereof so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the World Bank,
implementation of the Project.
(b) For the purposes of Part F of the Project, the Recipient, through DoLS, shall make the
cash compensations available to eligible poultry farmers in accordance with the
Operations Manual.


﻿Mr. Shanta Raj Subedi                   2                           December 20, 2013
3.     The table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement is amended as indicated in the
Attachment to this Letter of Amendment.
4.    In the Appendix to the Grant Agreement, the definition of "Operations Manual" is amended
to read as follows:
"9.    "Operations Manual" means the Operations Manual for the Project dated April 2012
and approved by the Recipient and the World Bank, setting out, inter alia, details of
all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria required for the carrying out of the
Project, including the selection and eligibility criteria of poultry farmers and the
amount and transfer mechanisms of cash compensations to said farmers, and the
procurement, financial, administrative, operational, and monitoring, evaluation and
reporting arrangements, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the World Bank."
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Letter of Amendment
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Grant Agreement.
All other terms and conditions of the Grant Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing two originals of this Letter of
Amendment and returning one fully executed original to the World Bank. Please retain the other original
for your records. This Letter of Amendment shall enter into effect as of April 4, 2013, upon
countersignature of this Letter of Amendment by the authorized representative of the Recipient and
receipt of the said letter by the World Bank.
Sincerely,
Johannes Zutt
Country Director
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
NEPAL
By
Authorized Representative
Name:    Mackv.. Ru;maoy- /V\o-a-    "
Title:     01A   Eec-reyrlq
Date:     90 c,  e&P   ber   2,ot2


﻿Mr. Shanta Raj Subedi                   3                          December 20, 2013
Attachment
Percentage of
Amount of the        Expenditures
Grant Allocated     to be Financed
'Category            (expressed in    (exclusive of Taxes)*
USD)
1. Goods                  4,238,000                100%
2. Works                   769,000                 100%
3. Consultants' services  2,093,000                100%
4. Training               1,217,000                100%
5. Operating Costs         797,000                 100%
6. Cash Compensations      886,000                 100%
under Part F of the
Project
TOTAL AMOUNT            10,000,000
*Note: The Grant will not finance local taxes, duties and anti-viral drugs.
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "Cash Compensations" means cash transfers to
eligible poultry farmers, whereby eligibility and amount of cash transfers to said farmers are
determined in accordance with the Operations Manual."


