-2 2èZ 9&o 777..
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6276-TA
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.9 MIT.LION
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
JUNE 21, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6276 TA
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Tanzanian Shilling (Tsh.)
Official Rate: US$1.00 = Tsh. 465 (September 1993)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AGC           Attorney General's Chambers
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GNP          Gross National Product
ERP           Economic Recovery Program
FEMATA        Federation of Miners Associations of Tanzania
GOT          Government of Tanzania
IDA           International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
IPC           Investment Promotion Center
LIB          Limited International Bidding
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MRD           Mineral Resources Department
MSPF         Mining Sector Policy Framework
MWEM         Ministry of Water, Energy and Mines
MTNRE         Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resources and Environment
NBC           National Bank of Commerce
NEAP          National Environmental Action Plan
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NIPP          National Investment Promotion Policy
PC           Planning Commission
PPRP          Parastatal and Public Sector Reform Project
PSRC         Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
REMA          Regional Miners Association
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SSMO          Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining Development Office
STAMICO    State Mining Corporation
TA            Technical Assistance
TAMIDA        Tanzania Mineral Dealers Association
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
WDL           Williamson Diamonds Ltd.



FOR OF.ICIAL USE ONLY
CREDff AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower            United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiar          Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM)
Amount:             SDR 8.9 million (US$12.5 muilion equivalent)
Terms.,             Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
DescripioQn:         he principal objective of the project is to support Tanzania's privatl
sector-oriented mining development policy and to expand private
investment in mining. The secondary objective is to screngthen thi
capacity of mining institutions to efficiently administer and regulate the
sector. The project also aims at improving productivity and
environmental and social viability of artisanal and small-scale miners.
The project would have three main components: The Legal, Regulatory,
FYscal and Environmental Component would help introduce appropriate
mining laws and regulations and fiscal and environmental framework to
promote and guide private investment in mining. The Institutional
Strengthening Component would improve organizational, manpower, and
logistical capacity of the Mineral Resource Department MD), help
reactivate MRD's environmental and mine safety inspection, and
strengthen MRD's geological services including publication of geological
map sheets and the improvements of its mineral laboratory. lhe Small-
Scale Mining Component would include a baseline data survey, the
dissemination of information and demonstration of simple and
environmentally-sensitive technologies, and training and capacity building
support to small-scale miners through the Regional Miners Associations.
Benefits            The main benefits are increased private investment in mining, increased
output, exports, government revenues and employment and improved
environmental quality, safety and health of miners. A stronger sector
institutional and manpower capacity to plan and manage firther
development of the sector would be an additional benefit.
Risks               While sluggish private investment response is a risk, the Government's
strong commitment to a private sector-oriented mining development
strategy would help restore investor confidence over time. The project has
been carefully designed to help achieve the objective of the strategy. To
ensure the sustainability of the institution building objective, the project
would build a pool of local manpower and consulting capacity and
strengthen MRD's finance on the basis of expanded mining investment and
increased mineral revenue collection. In addition, the Civil Service
Reform which the Government has embarked upon would provide an
environment more conducive to the retention of qualified staff and
efficient operation of MRD. The small-scale mining component would
pursue a modest objective and involve beneficiaries in the implementation
diocment has a rstricted distinbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of thdir
offical duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



to minimize uncertainties associated with programs addressing informal
and artisanal activities.
Estimated Project Costs:                    LJow          Foreign      Totau
(in US$ Thousands)
Legal, Regulatory, Fiscal
and Environmental       68          1,132         1,200
Institutional Strengthening    2,211  5,049         7,260
Small-Scale Mining         855         1,295        2,150
Project Management         900          110         1,010
Baseline Cost            4,034        7,586         11,620
Contingencies              806         1,474        2,280
TIotal                   4.840        2060          13.900
Financing lan                                Government    EDA         ibu
(in US$ Millions)
Local                     1.4          3.4          4.8
Foreign                   -            9.1          9.1
Io1ai                    £4            12.5 _
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
Fiscal Year Ending June 30
FY95 FY9  EYSZ  FY98 E122
(in US$ Millions)
Annual                    2.2    3.0  3.2   2.3    1.8
Cumulative                2.2    5.2  8.4  10.7   12.5
% of Credit               18    42   67    86    100
poverq Alleviation:  Program of Targeted Intervention
Economic Rate of Return: N/A



Memorandum and Recommendation of the President
of the International Development Association
to the Executive Directors
on a Proposed Credit to the United Republic of Tanzania
for a Mineral Sector Development Tlechncal Assistance Project
1.           The following report on a proposed development credit to the United Republic of
Tanzania, in the amount of SDR 8.9 million (US$12.5 million equivalent) is submitted for approval.
The proposed Credit would be at standard IDA terms with a 40 year repayment period. It would
assist in financing a technical assistance project designed to promote private investment in the
development of the country's mineral sector, while strengthening the Govermnent's sector institutions
and admiisi tration. The beneficiary of the Credit would be the Ministry of Water, Energy and
Minerals.
A. Recent Economic Performance
2.    Backgound Beginning in the mid-1960s, the Government of Tanzania greatly increased the
role of the public sector in production and undermined the development of the private sector.
Marketing and processing of agricultural products were controlled by monopolistic marketing boards
and cooperative unions, reducing farmers' incentives to produce. Large investments were made in
industrial parastatals that operated at very low levels of capacity utilization and with substantial
losses, inhibiting private sector competition and resulting in a considerable burden on public sector
finances. Nationalization of financial institutions, interest rate controls, and political influence in
lending decisions greatly impaired the efficiency of financial intermediation. An overvalued exchange
rate coupled with extensive controls on trade and capital movements created a scarcity of foreign
exchange. Overall, the Government was successful in forging a unified nation and making initial
progress in improving social conditions. However, flawed economic policies severely distorted
relative prices, which combined with successive droughts, a costly war with Uganda, and a fall in
the terms of trade, led to a protracted decline in output. The resulting decrease in Govermnent
resources led to a severe deterioration in economic and social infrastructure.
3.    Recent Economic Development. In early 1986, the Government of Tanzania embarked on an
adjustment program to dismantle the system of pervasive economic controls and encourage more
ac,tive participation of the private sector in the economy. The program included a comprehensive
package of policies which reduced the budget deficit and improved monetary control, substantially
depreciated the overvalued exchange rate, liberalized the trade regime, removed most price controls,
eased restrictions on the marketing of food crops, freed interest rates, and initiated a restructuring
of the financial sector. The Government also launched programs to rehabilitate key infrastructure
(roads, railways and ports) and to strengthen research and extension services. The economy
responded positively to the reform program and the increased availability of external resources, with
increased production of food, traditional export crops and non-traditional exports. During 1986-92,
both GDP and exports increased at an average of about 4 percent per year in constant prices, after
near-stagnation in GDP and a dramatic decline in exports in the early 1980s.
4.    Macroeconomic stability had, however, been tenuous during the adjustment process, owing
to the Central Government's budget deficit and substantial leakages through the financial system.
Although through FY92 progress was being made in reducing inflation, this progress was reversed



-2 -
in FY93 and early FY94. The fiscal deficit equalled 8 percent of GDP in FY93, largely owing to a
dramatic decline in indirect tax revenues and lack of control over public expenditures. In response
to the deterioration in the macroeconomic environment in the first half of FY94, the government
made a determined effort to reestablish expenditure control and rein in excessive monetary expansion.
The government instituted a cash system for controlling expenditures and introduced selected tax
increase and additional taxes. This program appears to be working, as public expenditures have
decreased sharply, while tax revenues have increased substantially. As a result, the government has
remained within the monetary targets in its economic program through the first four months of 1994.
5.    The Adjustment Program. Implementation of key structural reforms over the past year has
been mixed. The financial sector reform program suffered a reverse. Progress was reported on the
parastatal sector reform program: in calendar 1993, the Government concluded 20 privatization
transactions, closed or placed under receivership an additional 22 companies pending liquidation.
Legislation was enacted to introduce private sector competition into the marketing of traditional crops.
However, little progress has been made in easing other administrative constraints on private sector
business, for example, through simplifying business licensing procedures. The Government completed
the initial retrenchments under the Civil Service Reform but faster progress is needed on the planned
studies of the reorganization of ministries and the rationalization of the compensation system.
6.    The Government has rapidly implemented the reform of the exchange and trade system. The
exchange rate was unified in August 1993, and weekly foreign exchange auctions introduced. Trade
restrictions were greatly eased through the elimination of import licensing, the elimination of export
licensing and registration requirements, and the narrowing of the list of goods subject to import and
export restrictions to a small, negative list.
7.    Despite the adjustment program, the economy faces considerable difficulties:
(a)    The gradualist approach to adjustment has meant that a substantial
portion of necessarv reforms has yet to be implemented; processing
of important agricultural exports remains controlled by inefficient
monopolies, regulations continue to impose substantial costs on
private sector operation, financial services still are provided largely
by inefficient public sector institutions, and inefficient (and often
bankrupt) parastatals continue to play a major role in the industrial
sector.
(b)    The economy does not generate sufficient savings to sustain
development over the medium term, and large inf' -,rs of external
resources are required. The level of domestic savings, while difficult
to estimate, probably is little more than 5 percent of GDP. The 28
percent of GDP devoted to investment has largely come from
external donors, as more than half of imports are financed by official
inflows and the current account deficit (after grants) haC risen to
above 10 percent of GDP. Further, even this substantial level of
investment has generated growth of only about 4 percent per year,
which is relatively low, compared to other African countries.



- 3 -
(c)    Approximately 45 percent of the population is under the age of 15,
and present rates of growth may not be sufficient to create the
employment necessary to absorb the expected large increases to the
labor force.
(d)   Perhaps most importantly, the public sector lacks the capacity to
cope with the challenges posed by extensive poverty, a rapid increase
in population, a growing menace from AIDS, the breakdown in
essential infrastructure and the disastrous state of most public
services, while also maintaining macroeconomic stability through
improved public sector management practices.
B. The Mineral Sector
8.    Background. Despite its diverse mineral resource base and a long history of mining in gold,
diamonds and gemstones, Tanzania's mining sector has continuously declined for the past two
decades. At present the mineral sector's contribution to the national economy is small and far below
its geological potential. Currently, mining contributes less than 2 percent of GDP, 10 percent of
exports and 4 percent of wage employment. Its contribution to government revenue has been small,
less than $1 million per annum. The sector's decline was largely due to inappropriate government
policies during the 1970s and 1980s.
9.    Sector Performance. Prior to Tanzania's independence in 1961, mining (mainly gold and
diamonds) played a major role in the country's development. Mining's share in GDP was as high as
10 percent during the 1950s and, together with agriculture, provided the bulk of government tax and
foreign exchange revenues. There were several privately-owned mining companies active in
exploration and development of gold, diamonds and other precious stones. In the 1960s, however,
the continued low price of gold ($35 per oz.) and the uncertain political environment led to the
closure of most Tanzanian mines. Furthermore, in the wake of the Arusha Declaration of 1967 which
established the country's policies of socialism and self-reliance, Tanzania's mineral industry was
nationalized and a number of foreign investors withdrew from mining. In 1972 the Government
created the State Mining Corporation (STAMICO) with the objective of implementing the State-
directed mineral development strategy. STAMICO took over the remaining mining companies and
launched a number of new mining ventures with funds provided by the Government and bilateral
sources.
10.   Most of the mining enterprises taken over by STAMICO were beset with declining
production, periodic work stoppages, and mounting financial losses. Also, virtually all of the new
mining ventures launched by STAMICO proved to be unviable. Of the eleven mining subsidiaries
owned and operated by STAMICO, at present only two companies (Williamson Diamonds Ltd. and
Kiwira Coal Mines Ltd.) are in production, while the rest (e.g., phosphate, kaolin, gold subsidiaries)
ceased to operate. Currently, there is no major privately-owned industrial mining company producing
minerals, other than Williamson Diamonds Ltd. (VDL), which is owned equally by STAMICO and
De Beers (South Africa). The present output of industrial mining, therefore, remains at a low level
and it employs only about 3,000. Its export value was about $8.0 million in 1992, virtually all in the
form of diamond exports by WDL.



- 4-
11.   In contrast to tke declining industrial mining, Tanzania has seen in recent years a rapid and
vigorous expansion of artisanal (usually unregulated) mining activities, concentrated on gold and other
precious minerals. While no accurate data are available, at least about 100,000 small-scale miners
are estimated to be engaged in gold and gemstone mining, using artisanal methods of extracting,
concentrating and recovering minerals. Small-scale mining is legal and miners' claims are officially
sanctioned under Tanzania's laws, although a number of small-scale miners operate informally
without license. The gold production from this sub-sector has increased markedly in recent years
mainly as a result of the introduction of a liberalized foreign exchange regime and the removal of
government's restrictive gold marketing policy. All of Tanzania's officially exported gold, currently
estimated at about 4-5 tons per year (earning more than $50 million in foreign exchange), are now
being mined by such small miners. In addition, there is a substantial amount of gold produced and
exported through unofficial channels.
12.   Although the small-scale mining adds to Tanzania's export earnings and creates employment
in the country's poverty-stricken rural areas, it also presents some serious problems. Due to
inadequate technology and artisanal mining methods, mineral recovery is not more than 50 percent.
The gold recovery processes involve the use of considerable quantities of mercury, which is then
released into the environment. In addition, mine accidents among small-scale miners are a serious
problem (a fatality rate estimated at 5 percent). The lack of health, sanitary and other social facilities
in most mining villages is seriously affecting miners and their families.
13.   Geological Potential. In terms of the diversity of mineral resources, Tanzania has a
considerable geological potential. In addition to gold, diamonds and other gemstones for which
Tanzania is already known, the country has either produced or has known occurrences of a wide
variety of base metals (nickel, copper, cobalt and iron ore) and industrial minerals (kaolin, phosphate,
salt, and gypsum). Although a considerable amount of geological work was done during the pre-
independence period and valuable information is still available, little mineral exploration and
prospecting activities took place during the last three decades due to the unfavorable investment
environment.
14.   Among Tanzania's known mineral resources, gold, diamonds and other gemstones hold out
the greatest developme ut potential in the near future. Since 1935 Tanzania has officially produced
more than 80 tons of gold largely from the Archaean greenstone belts south and east of Lake
Victoria, which still hold a significant production prospect. There are some 600 magnetic anomalies
in the Mwanza area where WDL is currently mining diamonds, some of which may turn out to be
diamondiferous kimberlite pipes. With an appropriate policy framework and the development of
industrial scale mining, Tanzania is considered to be capable of increasing gold and diamonds output
by 200 to 300 percent in the medium-term, which can earn the country $150 to $200 million per
annum in foreign exchange from these two minerals alone, representing 30 to 40 percent of the
country's total official export value in 1992.
15.   Recent Policy Reforms. Recognizing !he poor performance of the mineral sector, the
Government of Tanzania from late 1980s began to change its mining policy, albeit on a piecemeal
fashion. With the introduction of a 'National Investment Promotion Policy" (NIPP) in 1990, the
Government for the first time recognized the importance of private investment in general and reduced
and subsequently removed the requirement of government equity participation in mining ventures.
During the last few years, the liberalized mining policy of Tanzania has begun to renew the interest



-5-
of foreign mining investors. Between 19b9 and 1992, a total of 17 Reconnaissance Licenses and 75
Prospecting Licenses have been issued.
16.   While the NIPP clearly has suppolted a move of Tanzania's investment policies in the new
direction of increased liberalization and transparency, the basic mining investment policies, legal,
regulatory and fiscal framework have not been systematically reviewed, rationalized and streamlined.
At present, the regulatory framework consists of a Mining Act (of 1979) and some 25 ordinances,
regulations, rules and notices, some dating back to the 1950s. Therefore, the legal, regulatory and
fiscal regimes governing private mining investments lack consistency, coherence and transparency.
The situation has undermined the objective of promoting private investment in mining as the sysLem
lacked the degree of certainty required by prudent private investors.
17.   Sector Administration, The mineral sector is administered by the Ministry of Water, Energy
and Minerals (MWEM) through its Mineral Resoumce Department (MRD). MRD which is headed by
the Commissioner, Mineral Resources is divided into four Divisions, namely the Mines, Geology,
Research and Laboratory Services, and Mineral Trade. It has also eight Zonal and 16 District Offices
reporting to the Mines Division. Although MRD has an adequate number of professional staff
including some highly qualified geologists at the senior level, sizable professional vacancies have
existed at the middle level, especially Mine Inspectors and Mining Engineers, and the skills and
manpower capacity has not been upgraded for a long time. In addition, while the liberalized mining
policy has sharply increased MRD's administrative workload, the lack of equipment and inadequate
operating budgets have made it difficult for MRD to fulfill its basic administrative and regulatory
responsibilities. In recent years, the institutional constraint has manifested itself in several critical
areas of sector administration, including the handling of mnineral rights applications by small-scale
miners, the enforcement of environmental and work safety regulations, and the negotiations and
monitoring of Prospecting Licenses for large-scale mining ventures.
18.   TBe Mining Sector Policy Framework. In 1990 the Bank carried out, in collaboration with
the Government of Tanzania, a Mining Sector Review (Report No. 9007-TA) which assessed the
Government's ongoing mining policy reforms and made a number of recommendations with particular
focus on the development of private investment in mnining, associated policy and institutional reforms
required and the divestiture of state-owned mining companies. A number of these recommendations
have since been adopted and are being implemented by the Government. In addition, with the
assistance of UNDP and IDA, the Government has started formulating a comprehensive mining sector
policy and strategy framework as well as action plans to implement a series of reforms in legal,
regulatory and fiscal regimes and required changes in the sector institutions.
19.   From this process a new Miring Sector Policy Framework (MSPF) has emerged (see Annex
2). The overarching goal of the MSPF is the private sector-oriented development of the mineral sector
with the government providing the necessary "enabling environment" for private investment in
mining. The role of the State would change from that of investor/operator of mining ventures to that
of administrator/promoter of the sector. The Government would withdraw from mining ventures and
divest itself of the mining parastatals. As the sector regulator, the Government would play an
enhanced role of safeguarding legitimate public interests - environmental protection, mine safety,
health and social conditions of miners and settlement of mineral rights disputes.



-6 -
20.   The Government intends to implemer.t tbh MSPF ever the next few years by undertaking
reforms in sbt key areas of the sector administration as follows: First, to establish investor
confidence, the present complicated and deficient legal structure would be revised to make mining
legislation uniform, consistent, transparent, and competitive. Areas of current administrative
discretion in issuing licenses and approving claims would t reduced and be standardized. The
legislative reform would also address the need to establish investment guarantees for mining
investments similar to those given in other sectors.
21.   Second, the regulatory framework would be overhauled, with a view to ensuring effective
filfillment of conditions and responsibilities investors undertake under Prospecting and Mining
Licenses, including the development of rational mine plans, execution of required work programs,
requirements to safeguard the environment, mine safety and other public interests.
22.   Third, to ensure a fiscal regime which encourages the exploration for, development and
production of minerals, the present fiscal policies and regulations would be reviewed, rationalized
and systematized. The formulation of specific fiscal incentives and requirements would be guided by
the broad principles accepted by the Government which include: (i) favorable treatment to exploration
expendi ures given the high risk nature of mineral exploration; (ii) competitive and stable rates o'
taxation in recognition of the long-term nature of, and large investments required by, medium and
large-scale mining operations; and (iii) a system which would allow effective tax collection from
mining companies.
23.   Fourth, to mitigate the present environmental hazards of artisanal small-scale mining, the
Government would extend necessary education and training to small-scale miners and demonstrate
the environmental and productivity berlefits of simple and appropriate technologies. As the small-scale
mining sector is large and mining sites scattered throughout the country, the Government also
encourages the development of miners' own organizations. In addition, MWEM in collaboration with
the Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resource and Environment (MTNRE) would formulate
environmental management policies, regulatory standards, and monitoring arrangements.
24.   Fifth, the Government intends to fully implement the restructuring and divestiture of the state-
owned mining companies. STAMICO, the holding company, will be restructured or dissolved and
its fixed assets (mainly drilling rigs, survey equipment, etc.) will be disposed of.
25.   Sixh, the Government intends to strengthen the organizational structure, manpower base,
equipment and facilities of MRD so that it may effectively administer the legal, regulatory, fiscal and
environmental framework, promote private investment in industrial mining ventures, and foster the
development of small-scale mining.
26.   In order to speed up the implementation of MSPF as mentioned above, the Government with
assistance of IDA has formulated the proposed Mineral Sector Development Technical Assistance
Project and requested IDA's assistance in financing the project.
C. The Project
27.   Project Objectives. The primary objective of the project is to provide the Government of
Tanzania (GOT) with necessary technical, managerial and material support for the implementation



- 7.-
of its new private sector-oriented mining development strategy and thereby promote the development
of mining by the private sector in an environmentally sustainable manner. Specifically, the project
would introduce appropriate legal, regulatory and fiscal regime, which would provide a uniform,
competitive and stable environment conducive to increased private investment in mining. At the same
time, the environmental m&Liagement of mining activities as well as the public sector's capacity to
effectively regulate and administer the sector would be strengthened. In addition, the project would
help improve the productivity, income and social conditions of artisanal and small-scale miners mostly
operating in Tanzania's poverty-stricken rural areas.
28.   Project Description. The project wou.u have three main components. The Legal, Regulatory,
FYscal and Environmental Component would undertake the revision of the mining laws and
regulations, the modification and clarification of the fiscal regime, and the establishment of an
environmental management framework. The Institutional Strengthening Component would improve
the organizational, manpower and logistical capacity of the Mineral Resources Department (MRD)
and provide financing for the carrying out of MRD's Priority Work Programs in three key areas of
its field operation (i.e., the environmental and mine safety inspection, mineral titles registration, and
mineral revenue collection). To enhance MRD's investment promotion role, the Component would
also strengthen MRD's geological services through the publication of geological map sheets and
improvements of its mineral laboratory. The Small-Scale Mining Component would finance collection
of baseline data and strategy formulation, information dissemination and demonstration of simple and
environmentally-sensitive technologies, and training aid capacity building support. Detailed
descriptions of the project components are contained in the Technical Annex and the Implementation
Manual.
29.   Proiect Cost and Financing. The total project cost is estimated at $13.9 million equivalent
(excluding taxes and duties) with a foreign exchange component of $9.1 million (65 percent) and a
local cost component of $4.8 million (35 percent). It is proposed that an IDA credit of $12.5 million
equivalent finance all foreign and 70 percent of local costs. The remainder of local costs ($1.4
million) would be financed by the Government. Detailed information on project costs and financing
plan is contained in Schedule A and tile Technical Annex.
30.   Project Implementation. MWEM would be the agency responsible for the implementation of
the project through its MRD. The Commissioner, Mineral Resources would oversee and coordinate
project implementation activities by the operating Divisions of MRD. In discharging the project
responsibility, the Commissioner, Mineral Resources would be assisted by project staff (a Project
Manager, a Technical Officer and an Accountant). The Project Manager, who is a Tanzanian, would
have the day-to-day responsibility for coordinating the project activities within MRD and with other
govermnental agencies, monitoring progress, and handling procurement. The Project Manager would
be responsible for managing the Project Account and the Special Account, communicating with IDA
on progress of project implementation, and preparing quarterly progress reports. The modalities and
procedures for implemeniing respective project components are described in detail in the Technical
Annex and the Implementation Manual.
31.   Disbursements. The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over a five year period against
the following six categories: (i) 70 percent of civil works cost totalling $0.59 million; (ii) 100
percent of foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures for vehicles, equipment, furniture, tools and
materials, totalling $3.57 million; (iii) 100 percent of foreign and 90 percent of local expenditures



- 8 -
for consultants' services and training, totalling $4.65 million; (iv) 60 percent of incremental
operating costs totalling $1.39 million; (v) refunding of a Project Preparation Facility advance of
$250,000; and (vi) an unallocated amount of $2.05 million. On behalf of the project, the Bank of
Tanzania would open a Special Account with a commercial bank to which an authorized allocation
of $1.0 million would be deposited upon credit effectiveness. Amounts and methods of procurement
and disbursements and the disbursement schedule are set out in Schedule B. A timetable of key
processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in Tanzania are given in Schedules C and
D, respectively.
32.   Accounts and Audits. MRD would maintain accounts and process payments for all project
expenditures. The Project Account, the Special Account, and procurement, including Statements of
Expenditures, would be audited annually, by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA. The audit
reports would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the Government's fiscal
year.
33.   Project Sustainability. In line with its current objective of improving the performance of the
public sector in the national economy, GOT has started implementing a comprehensive Civil Service
Reform, w' ;ch aims at rationalizing the functions of key Ministries and Departments, improving the
conditions of service, and reducing the over-manning problem in the government service in general.
The implementation of the Civil Service Reform is being supported under the Parastaal and Public
Sector Reform Project (Credit 2507-TA), approved by the Board in 1993. At the same time, GOT
assisted by IDA has embarked upon a Public Expenditure Review which aims at assuring adequate
budget provision for priority areas of public expenditure with an emphasis on operation and
maintenance of essential government services. Progress in the implementation of the Civil Service
Reform and the Public Expenditure Review and its impact on the sustainabiity of the project would
be closely monitored and jointly reviewed with GOT at the project's Mid-Term Review.
34.   In addition, the project has several built-in features which would help enhance its
sustainability beyond the implementation period. First, the increased effectiveness and efficiency of
MRD would improve its performance of assessing and collecting mineral revenues, while increased
investment flows induced by the private sector-oriented mining policy would expand tae sector's
public revenue base. The increased revenue flow from the sector would enable GOT to provide a
more adequate budget to fund MRD's essential services on a sustained basis. Second, the project
would build a pool of local manpower and consulting capacity which Tanzania can use to support
increasingly self-sustained development of the mining sector Institutions. To this end, all appropriate
local institutions (including the universities, and research and training institutes) and individual
experts and consultants would be encouraged to participate in the project implementation as providers
of training or consulting services. At the same time, the Government would designate appropriate
counterparts prior to the commencement of consultants' work, and such counterpart officials would
play the role of champions of change in their respective areas and exercise substantive responsiP'lity
during the subsequent implementation stage. 7hird, the project would involve the Regional Miners
Associations and the newly-established Tanzanian Chamber of Mines in the implementation of the
education and training of smal miners and appropriate technology demonstration with a view to
developing a membership-based local capacity to continue to promote structural changes in this sub-
sector.



-9 -
35.   Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement. There were two prior projects directly
pertaining to the mining sector. In May 1983, a Coal Engineering Credit (1371-TA) was approved.
It dealt principally with an assessment of Tanzania's coal resources, but also sought to strengthen the
managerial and technical capabilities of MWEM and the coal mining subsidiaries of STAMICO.
Several of STAMICO's subsidiary companies were analyzed under the Technical Assistance Credit
(1060-TA) approved in 1981. While the Coal Engineering Credit was a technical success inter alia
identifying new coal deposits, insufficient attention was given to the manpower development and
institution building objectives during implementation. The proposed project would address these
aspects systematically with a particular focus on organizational strengthening, training, manpower
development and logistical and operational improvements.
36.   Rationale for IDA Involvement. The proposed project directly supports the IlDA's Tanzania
Country Assistance Strategy, which was discussed by the Executive Directors in April 1994. The
Bank's assistance strategy is aimed at helping the Government to reduce poverty through an
accleration in the pace of structural reform, the provision of infrastructure and social services, while
ensuring an environmentally sustainable development p. -th. Liberalization and rationalization of
mining sector policies, efficient and transparent system of handling prospecting and mining licenses,
divestiture of state-owned mining companies, alleviating poverty through improvements of
productivity, work safety and social conditions of artisanal miners, the human capital development
and capacity building in the public sector, and the strengthening of environmental management are
some of the key sector reforms to be supported by the project elements, which would help translate
Tanzania's market-based macroeconomic policies into concrete investment, increased output, exports
and employment in the mineral sector.
37.   Agreed Actign= The Govermnent has taken or agreed to take several major actions, critical
to effective project implementation, as follows: (a) GOT to consult IDA on the recommendations of
consultants on the legal, regulatory, fiscal and environmental framework, take all necessary steps
satisfactory to IDA to modify the framework prior to December 31, 1995, and review its
implementation with IDA at the Mid-Term Review; (b) GOT to designate appropriate counterpart
personnel of MRD prior to commencement of any consultant studies under the project; (c) GOT to
provide an adequate operation and maintenance budget for MRD, and prepare a rolling three-year
budgetary framework for MRD's capital and recurrent expenditures for review with IDA annnually;
(d) GOT to review with IDA the impact of the ongoing Civil Service Reform on MRD at the Mid-
Term Review; (e) GOT to review with IDA progress in the implementation of the Priority Work
Programs annually; (f) GOT to establish in consultation with IDA a user charge scheme covering
MRD's geological mapping and mineral laboratory services, and review its implementation with IDA
at the Mid-Term Review.
38.   Prior to Credit effectiveness, the GOT will establish a Project Account and deposit its initial
quarterly contribution estimated at $65,000. A condition of disbursement for the Technology
Information and Demonstration and for the Training and Capacity Building sub-components of the
small-scale mining component of the project would be that: (a) the results of the Baseline Survey have
been analyzed and @b) detailed implementation procedures satisfactory to IDA, including the eligibility
criteria, accounting and monitoring arrangements have been put in place.
39.   Program Objective Categories, The project aims at providing support to policy, institutional
and regulatory reforms that will promote private sector growth in the mining industry. The role of



- 10-
the State as investor/operator in the mining sector will be severely curtailed. The project also aims
at improving the social and economic status of small-scale subsistence miners and increasing
employment in Tanzania's poverty-stricken rural areas. Finally, the project would make, for the first
time in Tanzania, a comprehensive effort to integrate environmental concerns into mining policy and
regulations and substantially strengthen the sector instittutions to effectively enforce and monitor them.
40.   Environmental Aspects. The project activities would have no negative environmental
consequences. The project would help artisanal and small-scale miners in mitigating the environmental
hazards of their present mining methods through specific project interventions which would include:
(a) education and training, and promotion of simple and environmentally-sensitive technologies and
improved mining and work safety measures; (b) the monitoring of the environmental aspects of
mining operations and the introduction of effective regulatory measures; and (c) support to the
Regional Miners Associations to address the environmental and social problems on a self-help and
self-policing basis. As regards medium and large-scale industrial mining operations, appropriate
environmental policies, regulatory standards and monitoring mechanism would be developed and
implemented. The project would also provide necessary manpower, logistical and institutional
capacity to enable GOT to fully implement the new environmental framework.
41.   Benefits. The successful implementation of Tanzania's new private sector-oriented mineral
development policy to be supported by the project would restore investor confidence and increase
private investment in mining, thereby enabling the mineral sector to realize its economic potential.
The mineral sector in the medium to long term should be able to make a major contribution to
Tanzania's export earnings, employment and public revenues through increased output and value-
added processing. Given the country's significant geological potential, Tanzania under optimum
policy environment is deemed to be able to increase its gold, diamonds and gemstone output by 200
to 300 percent in the medium term, earning the country some $150 to $200 million in foreign
exchange, representing 30 to 40 percent of Tanzania's current official exports, from these minerals
alone.
42.   The development of small-scale mining would have an important economic and social benefit
as the productivity and income of artisanal miners are presently very low, while they are beset with
mounting work safety, health and environmental hazards. Given the Government's liberalized
approach to small-scale mining and active technical, legal and organizational support envisaged under
the project, this sub-sector is likely to further expand, creating employment and income opporunities
in Tanzania's poverty-stricken rural areas. The process would have the multiplier effect of stimulating
the expansion of other related industries and trades, with increasingly more efficient and vibrant
mining activities spread over a wide area of the country.
43.   The improved policy and regulatory framework, the emergence of modem industrial mining
and effective public sector institutions would generate long-term benefits and foster more efficient and
sustained utilization of the country's finite mineral resources, while preserving the environment.
Mining could be better harmonized with the management and use of other natural resources for the
sustained economic growth and social development of Tanzania.
44.   £isk  The project faces three main risks. First, restoring private investor confidence after
a long period of socialism, nationalization and state-directed economic development policy is
undoubtedly a difficult task. Furthermore, mining in itself is a high risk investment, requires a large



- 11 -
amount of capital and a long gestation period. Investors in large mining ventures are particularly
cautious and tend to react sensitively not only to mining sector policy regime but also to broader
issues of political stability and macroeconomic management. So far, investor response has been
positive and the Government is committed to building on the momentum by accelerating necessary
policy and institutional reforms both at the sectoral and macroeconomic level.
45.   Second, the institutional strengthening and capacity building objective set for MRD contains
a risk of facing difficulty of retaining qualified and trained manpower over time, a risk which is
common to all other public sector institution building projects in Tanzania. As discussed in para 34
above, the project has several built-in features to minimize this risk. Furthermore, the Government
has expressed a strong commitment to the realization of this project objective and, with a strong
support of IDA and other donor agencies, has embarked on the Civil Service Reform, which would
ultimately create a smaller but better qualified, remunerated and motivated public sector workforce.
The project would immediately improve the working environment and the morale of MRD staff
through opportunities for training, provision of equipment and logistics and increased operating
budget, augmenting job satisfaction and career potential.
46.   7hird, the project intervention in the small-scale mining sector has a risk in that many such
miners operate in an informal environment. Despite the problems, small-scale mining is presently the
most important aspect of the mineral sector not only because of its significant economic contribution,
but also due to the serious social and envirornmental conditions facing small miners. To mitigate the
risk, the project has a modest objective of testing and demonstrating the feasibility of introducing
simple changes, the execution of which would be managed by the small miners' own organizations
and assisted by specialized consultants and local institutions.
47.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
June 21, 1994
Washington, D.C.



- 12 -
Schedule A
TANZANIA
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Thousands)
Component                  Local         Foreign         Total
A. Legal, Regulatory, Environmental
and Fiscal Framework                  68           1,132           1,200
B. Institutional Strengthening         2,211          5,049          7,260
C. Small-Scale Mining                   855           1,295          2,150
D. Project Management                   900             110          1,010
Baseline Cost                        4,034          7,586          11,620
Contingencies                          806          1,474          2,280
Total Project Cost                     4,840          9,060          13,900
FbnanclAn Plan
(US$ Million)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I                        Local]        Foreign]         Total
IDA                          3.4             9.1            12.5
Govemment                    1.4                             1.4
Total                        4.8     j       9.1            13.9



- 13 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Sunnary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Thouands)
Procurement Method
Description
ICB    J   LCB        Shopping'     Other         Total
Equipment, Vehicles,       3,780                     520                      4,300
Materials, etc.            (3,700)                   (500)    _              (4,200)
270                                               270
Contractual Service        (245)                                               (245)
Consulting Services, and                                         5,990        5,990
Tnining2                                                        (5,690)      (5,690)
720                                   720
Civil Works                             (510)                                  (510)
2,370        2,370
Opeting Cost                                                    (1,605)       (1,605)
250         250
Refindtig of PPF                                                 (250)         (250)
Total                      4,050         720         520         8,610        13,900
j  (3,945)      (510)        (500)       (7,545)     (12,500)
I/ Shopping to include both domestic and intemational with at least 3 quotations.
ZI Services would be prcured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency August 1981.



- 14-
Sdcue B
Page 2 of 2
TANZANIA
AMIERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE AND PROJECTION
IDA Credit Summary Aiocations
Amount of       1 % of Expenditure to be
Category                        Credit Allocated        Financed
(US$ Million)
Civil Works                                            0.59           70%
100% of foreign and
Vehicles, Equipment, Furniture,                        3.57           80% of local
Tools and Mateials                                                    expenditures
100% of foreign and
Consultants' Services and Training                     4.65           90% of local
_____________________________________________ .            _expenditures
Incremental Operating Costs                            1.39           60%
Refimding of PPP Advance                               0.25           Amoumt due
Unallocated                                            2.05
|| Total                                    [          12.5
Estimated Disbursements from D)A Credit
(US$ Mil1ion)
IDA Fiscal Year        |    95             96            97           98      |     99
Annual                       2.2          3.0           3.2           2.3           1.8
Cnutive                      2.2          5.2           8.4          10.7          12.5



- 15 -
Schedule C
TANZANIA
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Presing Events
(a)     Time taken to prepare               18 months
(b)     Prepared by                        GOT/Consultants
(c)     First IDA Mission                   September 1992
(d)     Appraisl Mission Departure         December 30, 1993Y
(e)     Negotiations                       May 25-28, 1994
(f)     Pluned Date of Effectiveness    August 30, 1994
(g)     Relevant PCR                       Coal Engineering Credit (1371-TA)
PCR dated December 1991
Technical Assistance Credit (1060-TA)
PCR dated March 1990
1 ey gaff involved were as folws: Seung Choi (Miaon Leader and Tadk Manager), Paul Dyson (Senior Midng Specialist), and Richad
NetUer (Consutan, Small-scale Mining). Other MDA saff involved in the project include John Strogman (Lead Advisor and Principal
Bconomist), William Shaw (Senior Economist), Elizabth Adu (Senior Counsel), Roberto Batahona (Senior Disbursment Officer), Cynthia
Cook (Environmenta SpeciaList). Mr. Peter Kotschwar was the peer reviewer. The Sector Division Chief is Mr. Robert Hlindle, and
Country Diector b Mr. Prancis Colago.



- 16 -
SCHEDULE D
Page 1 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIQ
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31. 1994)
...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ... . .. . . .
Nineteen (19) Loans and seventy two (72) Credits fully disbursed,         313.06      1,106.26
of which SECALS, SALs and Program Loans/Credits:                                      (263.72)
Cr. 18910         1988     Tanzania     Agr. Exports Reh. 1                             30.00       14.39
Cr. 19690 a/      1989      Tanzania    Ind. & Trade Adjus. Cr.                        135.00        3.37
Cr. 19700         1989      Tanzania    Nat'l. Ag. & Liv. Rcs.                           8.30        6.06
Cr. 19940         1989      Tanzania    Agric. Ext.                                     18.40        8.73
Cr. 20500         1989      Tanzania    Tree Crops                                      25.10       13.51
Cr. 20950         1990     Tanzania    Ports Modernization                              37.00       28.61
Cr. 20980         1990     Tanzania     Health & Nutrition                              47.60       44.43
Cr. 21160 a/      1990     Tanzania     Agric. Adjustment                              200.00        6.11
Cr. 21370         1990      Tanzanla    Educ. Planning & Rehab.                         38.30       31.52
Cr. 21490         1990     Tanzania     Roadsl                                         180.40      134.40
Cr. 22020         1991      Tanzania    Petrol Rehab                                    44.00       47.39
Cr. 22670         1991     Tanza        Railways Restructuring                          76.00       71.91
Cr. 22910         1992     Tanzania     Urban Sector Eng.                               11.20        7.78
Cr. 23080 a/      1992     Tanzania    Fin. Sector                                     200.00       36.43
Cr. 23300         1992     Tanzania    Engineering Credit                               10.00        3.63
Cr. 23350         1992     Tanzania    Forest Resources Man                             18.30       17.52
Cr. 24130         1993     Tanzania    Financial & Legal Ma                             20.00       17.42
Cr. 24860         1993     Tanzania    Telecom III                                      74.45       74.94
Cr. 24890         1993     Tanzania    Power VI                                        200.00      203.40
Cr. 25070         1993     Tanzania    Priv. Pub. Sect. Mgt.                            34.90       33.21
Cr. 25370         1994     Tanzania     ASMP                                            24.S0       22.22
Total                                         313.06      2539.71      826.98
of which repaid                              227.42        64.34
Total held by Bank & IDA                       85.64      2475.37
TOTAL Undisbursed                                                      826.98
a/ Indicates SAL/SECAL or Program Loan/Credit.



- 17 -
SCHEDULE D
Page 2 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TANZANIA
(As of March 31, 1994)
....................  g
1994  AEF-Tanganvika Transport and Storage                 0.25    0.00     0.25
1985  Amboni          Agricultural and Livestock Prod.     5.36    0.00     5.36
1978  Highland Soap    Mfg. of Soap & Cleaning Prep        1.38    0.37     1.75
1960, Kilombero       Mfg. of Food Beverages & Tobacco     3.50    0.00     3.50
1964                                                       4.37    0.70     5.07
1979  Metal Products   Mfg. of Fabric Metal Products       1.33    0.18     1.51
1991  Mufindi Tea     Beverage Industries                  2.80    0.00     2.80
1990  Tasco           Spining Weaving & Finishing          2.00    0.00     2.00
1994  TPS             Tourism Services                     804    1.06    9.10
Total Gross Commitments                             29.03    2.31    31.34
Less: repayments, cancellations,
exchange adjustments, writeoffs,
terminations and sales                           14.64    1.25    15.89
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   14.39    1.06    15.45
Total Undisbursed                                    9.36    0.79    10.15
Total Outstanding TFC                                5.03    0.27    5.30



- 18 -
Schedule D
Page 3 of 3
Disbursement Issues
1.    IDA's portfolio in Tanzania at the end of March, 1994 consisted of 21 projects (investment
plus adjustment) for a total commitment of US$1.3 billion, of which US$827 million was
undisbursed.  Of the total committed, US$834 million was for 18 investment operations.
Disbursements on the investment portfolio amounted to US$75 million in FY93, corresponding to a
disbursement factor of 12.8 (ratio of disbursements to net commitments at the beginning of the FY).
Ihis is a considerable improvement from FY92, when US$48 million was disbursed on investment
projects resulting in a disbursement factor of only 8.9.
2.    One reason for the large balance of undisbursed commitments is the young age structure of
the portfolio. The portfolio is dominated by a large number of relatively new projects: of the
US$785 million undisbursed balance on investment lending as of December 30, 1993, 60% was
approved over the last three years, and US$332 million represents loans approved in the last 9
months.
3.    Another important factor, however, has been limited domestic implementation capacity. This
issue is being addressed as follows:
(a)    The Private and Public Sector Management Credit (Cr. 2507) is intended to address
issues of civil service reform. In addition, an agriculture sector management project
to reinforce the sector's capabilities (Cr. 2537) was approved in July 1993 and
supervision of the projects in the PHR sector has been intensified;
(b)   Difficulties in effecting disbursements of agreed counterpart funding has slowed
project implementation. Over time, the implementation of the new rolling plan
approach to budgeting expenditures should increase the availability of funds for high-
priority activities. The recent (1994) Public Expenditure Review has proposed a
"core' investment program which should receive priority in allocation of counterpart
funds; and
(c)    Difficulties with Government procurement procedures have imposed severe delays.
Measures are being taken to improve these procedures under the Integrated Roads
Project (Cr. 2149).
4.    Finally, a club of Government project coordinators has been started in association with the
Resident Mission to exchange ideas on project implementation, improve the processing of withdrawal
applications and to help prepare and follow-up on the FY94 Country Portfolio Performance Review,
which was held in November, 1993.



- 19 -                                Annex 1
Page I of 14
TANZANIA
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMLiT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
The Mineral Sector
A. Background and History
1.           Tanzania has a diverse mineral resource base, although its main mineral development
potential, in the foreseeable future, is in gold, diamonds and gemstones. Tanzania also produces
small quantities of tin, kaolin, gypsum, phosphate, salt and coal and has, until recently, mined small
volumes of mica, magnesite and meerschaum. Varying geological potential exists also for
development of nickel, mineral sands, soda ash, carbonatite minerals and iron ore.
2.           Prior to Tanzania's independence in 1961, mining (mainly gold and diamonds) had
a crucial role in the country's development. Mining's share in GDP was reportedly as high as 10%
during the 1950s. In 1972 the Government created the State Mining Corporation (STAMICO) with
the objective of implementing the State-directed development strategy of the Arusha Declaration and
to revive the rapidly disintegrating mining sector. The largest STAMICO subsidiary, Williamson
Diamonds Ltd., maintained a 50% participation by Wilcroft of the United Kingdom,1/ while
operations of the company were transferred to Tanzanian nationals.
3.           Nationalization of the sector did not prevent the further decline of mining during the
1970s and 1980s (Table 1). With the temporary exception of Williamson Diamonds Ltd. during the
1970s, the enterprises operated by STAMICO were beset with mounting financial losses, declining
production and periodic work stoppages.
4.           While industrial-scale mineral operations have stagnated or closed, subsistence and
small-scale non-mechanized mining has expanded rapidly in recent years. With the exception of the
Williamson Diamonds Ltd., at present the mining sector is composed entirely of artisanal and small-
scale mining operations. While advanced small-scale mining operations are limited in number and
essentially confined to the extraction of construction materials and industrial minerals, artisanal
workings exploiting gold and gemstones are numerous and widespread throughout the country. Tbis
artisanal sector is estimated to employ more than 100,000 persons. The mining is performed with
practically no input of modem mining equipment, involving generally wasteful, dangerous and
environmentally damaging techniques.
5.           Overall, in spite of good geological potential for the discovery of economic mineral
deposits, Tanzanian mining has had an extremely poor performance since the country's independence.
At the same time, the structure of the sector has shifted from predominantly industrial-scale to
partially unoontrolled small-scale mining. While the increased level of informal production has
contributed to employment generation and income growth in rural areas, it has been costly to the
country in terms of loss of fiscal revenue, poor recovery of resources and environmental degradation.
1/ A De Beers affiliated Company.



Annex 1
- 20 -                             Page 2 of 14
B. Role of Mining In the Economy
6.           Macroeconomic Role of Mining. The contribution of the formal mining sector to the
economy of Tanzania is still modest. In 1992, formal mining and quarrying accounted for only 1.6
percent of GDP, while, for most of the preceding decade, this share had been below 0.5 percent.
In terms of export revenues, mineral production is, however, gaining an increasing importance due
to increased artisanl and small-scale mining activities. Total 1992 value of official mineral exports
amounted to US$53.1 million, substantially up from US$44.3 million in 1991. Mineral exports
contributed 11.3 percent to the foreign exchange earnings of the country in 1991, compared to only
5.6 percent in 1990 and 1.7 percent in 1989.
7.           The data on growth of total GDP and mining GDP indicate that formal mining -
basically the subsidiary companies of STAMICO - have not shared in the benefits of the structural
adjustment efforts which were initiated in the early 1980s and intensified during the Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) of 1986-89. Mining GDP at constant prices continued to decline in 1986-
1988.
8.           Mineral Production. The long-term declining trend in the production of most
minerals is shown in Table 1.0. In the 1970s and 1980s, export oriented minerals which are the most
important in value terms (diamonds, gold) suffered particularly sharp declines in production. The
fall in reported industrial gold production from over 3 tons per year in 1962 to about 40-50 kg per
year in the mid-1980s has now been reversed. The leading mineral commodity in terms of value of
production is gold, accounting for more than 75 percent of total mineral export earnings, followed
by diamonds and colored gemstones with a share of 15.6 percent and 6.0 percent respectively of
declared mineral export revenues in 1992. It is estimated that, in the case of gold and colored
gemstones, less than 50 percent of present production is actually sold through official channels. The
true value of the mineral production in Tanzania is therefore likely to be more than US$100 million
per year, of which some 90 percent are attributable to the small-scale sub-sector including artisanal
operations. Small-scale mining thus is a major generator of scarce foreign exchange in Tanzania.
Gold production from the sub-sector is currently estimated to be running at least 5 tons per year.
9.           Production of other less important export minerals (mica, tin, magnesite,
meerschaum) ceased during the 1980s, in most cases as a result of production problems at the mines.
Output of minerals which to date have been domestically marketed (kaolin, gypsum, salt, coal,
phosphate) has fluctuated widely since production problems, usually associated with inadequate
funding, affected most of the mines and, with the exception of gypsum, the level of production has
declined during the 1980s.
10.          Employment. Total employment in Tanzania's formal mining is small, presently
running less than 5,000, mostly employed by STAMICO and its subsidiary companies. This
represent less than 1 percent of total formal employment in Tanzania. Both at headquarters and at
the subsidiary companies, STAMICO has considerable excess employment. Williamson Diamonds
Ltd., STAMICO's largest subsidiary, employs 2,000 workers at a production volume of currently
about US$8 million per year, or US$4,000 per employee. Production to employee ratios are even
lower at other subsidiaries of STAMICO, which have usually maintained substantial staff even after
sharp declines or complete discontinuation of production.



- 21 -                                Annex I
Page 3 of 14
11.          The bulk of employment in miining is provided In the Informal sector. While no
reliable data on the number of persons engaged in artisanal and small-scale mining are available,
recent reported estimates range from a low of 50,000 to a high of several hundred thousands.
Information obtained from zonal officers and representatives of miners associations indicates that in
each of the high-intensity mining regions of Lake Victoria and Morogoro some 60,000 persons are
currently active in mineral extraction. Including indirect, seasonal and intermittent workers, total
employment related to artisanal and small-scale mining could reach up to 300,000.
C. Mineral Potential and Outlook
12.          The geological potential of Tanzania remains to be fully evaluated as little work has
been undertaken in the country over the last twenty-five years. Extensive regional reconnaissance
work was undertaken prior to and immediately after independence and it is only in the most recent
years that new geological assessments are being made. So far, physical exploration to test the validity
of the identified prospective areas has been undertaken by very few companies. Nevertheless, it is
clear that Tanzania has excellent prospects for additional discoveries of gold and diamonds which
could be exploited in the near term, while medium term, prospects for some industrial minerals can
be identified and long term prospects for the development of base metals and coal exist.
13.          Tanzania has excellent prospects for a significant increase in gQ!d production by
further development of industrial scale mining. Since 1935 it has officially produced more than 81
tons of gold of which more than 75 percent has been produced from the Archaean greenstone belts
south and east of Lake Victoria. Commercial mining ceased in 1970 since existing mines were
unprofitable at the prevailing gold price. Since that time, Buckreef Gold Mining Company Ltd., a
STAMICO subsidiary has been the only company to start up a new mine even though gold prices
have generally been in the US$400/oz range. Recent reviews of the potential of the greenstone belts
indicate that Tanzania probably has a prospective area comparable to that of Zimbabwe where current
gold production is around 15 tons/year. Tanzania, as a result of mineral policy in the past, has
largely been bypassed by the major resurgence which took place in the last 5-10 years in gold
exploration around the world in former traditional gold mining areas.
14.          Little new detailed prospecting for diamonds had been undertaken since independence
until recently when Tanex, a De Beers affiliate, launched a major new exploration program.
15.          There are known occurrences of base metals of the nickel-copper-cobalt type in
western Tanzania, some of which are being explored by BHP Minerals Ltd. Scattered occurrences
of tin and tungsten minerals are also known and small scale production of tin has taken place. There
are no indications to suggest potential for the medium term industrial scale development of these
minerals.
16.          Tanzania has extensive deposits of industrial minerals. At present, various STAMICO
subsidiaries and small scale miners have and are exploiting salt, kaolin, phosphate, and gypsum.
D. The State Mining Corporation
17.          The State Mining Corporation (STAMICO) was established in 1972 as the institution
to implement the policies of State-directed mining development as stipulated in the Arusha
Declaration. Under the supervision of the then Ministry of Mines, STAMICO was put in charge of
(i) supervising the operations of the State-owned mines and mineral processing plants, and (ii)



22 -                                Annex 1
Page 4 of 14
carrying out the Government's development plans in the mining sector. The supervision function of
STAMICO also included the provision of management and technical assistance to the State-owned
mining companies. STAMICO's development functions involved the implementation of rehabilitation
and expansion programs at existing mining operations and the establishment of new operations by
formirig wholly-owned subsidiaries or mixed enterprises and joint ventures with private investors.
18.          The basis of the company was the take-over from the National Development
Corporation (NDC) of six operating mining companies:
-     Williamson Diamonds Ltd. (WDL)
-     Nyanza Salt Mines (  Ltd. (NSML)
-     Tanzania Gemstone Industries Ltd. (TGIL)
-     Tanzania Diamond Cutting Company Ltd. (TDCC)
-     Tanganyika Meerschaum Corporation (TMC)
-     Tanzania Portland Cement Company Ltd. Oater transferred to Saruji Corporation).
19.          In WDL, STAMICO has a 50% share-holding with the balance being held by
Wilcroft, a U.K. affiliate of the De Beers diamond group. Private shareholders also exist in NSML
(17%) and in TMC (43%) but in these cases the private shareholders no longer participate in
corporate affairs and for all intents and purposes the companies are 100% STAMICO. Since 1972,
STAMICO has formed a new series of 100% owned subsidiaries to operate new ventures. They are:
-     Kiwira Coal Mines Ltd. (KCML)2/
-     Buckreef Gold Mining Company Ltd. (BGML)
-     Minjingu Phosphate Company Ltd. (MIPCO)
-     Pugo Kaolin Mines Ltd. (PKML)
-     Coastal Salt Works Company Ltd. (CSCL)
-     Lupa Gold Mines Ltd. (LGMC)
-     Tanzania Magnesite Ltd. (TML)
-     Kahama Gold Mines Ltd. (KGML)
Of these companies, only KCML is currently in production. STAMICO also operated a number of
projects, not yet incorporated. The most significant of these are:
-     Lake Natron Soda Ash
-     Sekenke Gold
20.          Between 1973 and 1989, STAMICO transferred a total of TSh 2,800 million to the
five existing companies and 35 projects. The bllk of the total funds available (about TSh 2,600
million) was spent on KCML. Most of the projects supported by STAMICO remained in the
exploration and study phase.
21.          Ihe role of STAMICO was primarily to develop new projects and to provide
management support to the subsidiaries with their on-going operations. Secondary activities related
to the trading of minerals, currently tin and mica; the provision of services such as drilling,
Z/ Includes llima coal mine.



Annex I
- 23 -                             Page 5 of 14
surveying, etc. to both subsidiaries and others; and collection of miscellaneous income from rentals,
loans to subsidiaries, etc. The management support includes: (a) technical supervisory visits to the
subsidiaries; (b) coordination of assistance to the subsidiaries including all multilateral and bilateral
assistance; (c) review of the proposed budgets for the subsidiaries; and (d) representation of the
subsidiaries at all levels of Government.
E. Divestiture of State Mining Companies
22.          The Government's recent emphasis on a private-sector led development strategy
implies a changing role for STAMICO and its subsidiary companies. The outlook for the subsidiary
companies under a divestiture scenario is mixed.  Most are in a run-down state and should i
divested without rehabilitation on the basis that. firstly the companies are not in a position to take on
additional financing and. secondly potential purchasers may well have different schemes for
rehabilitation. A further probable prerequisite for divestiture of any of the subsidiaries would be the
assumption by the Government of all outstanding corporate debts and enviromnental liabilities.
Furthermore, any remaining domestic mineral price controls would need to be reviewed. On the
assumption that this can be done, preliminary indications are that the following operations may have
potential for sale:
-     Kiwira Coal
-     Nyanza Salt
-     Buckreef Gold
-     Minjingu Phosphate
-     Pugo Kaolin
-     Coastal Salt
-     Tanganyika Meerschaum
F. Sector Administration
23.   The Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM) has the responsibility for
administrating the mineral sector through its Mineral Resources Division (MRD). MRD, which has
been established as one of the three Departments of MWEM, is the principal government agency
responsible for the administration of the sector. MMD which is headed by the Commissioner,
Mineral Resources, has the following functions:-
Formulation and updating of mining policy to keep in line with other national
policies;
-     Formulation, updating and administering of the mining laws and regulations;
-     Collection of mineral revenues and mining statistics;
-     Carrying out mineral resources assessment of the country through geological mapping
and mineral exploration;
-     collection and storage of geological and mineral resources data (Archives, Library
and Data Bank) and making them available to investors, researchers, Ministries and
the public in general;



- 24-                                  Annex 1
Page 6 of 14
Carrying out analytical services on rock and mineral samples on its own account and
for the public; and
Monitoring, supervision and guiding of mineral trade.
24.   To carry out the above functions, MRD has four Divisions, each headed by Assistant
Commissioners, - Mines, Geology, Research and Laboratory Services, and Minerals Trade. MRD
has a headquarters in Dodoma, although the Office of the Commissioner and the Minerals Trade
Division is located in Dar-es-Salaam. Currently, MRD has a total staff strength of about 330 of
which some 180 are stationed in Dodoma (MRD's Headquarters), 13 in Dar-es-Salaam, and 127
scattered in 8 Zonal Offices and 16 District Offices.
25.   Among its professional staff, MRD  currently has some 58 geologists, 18 mining
engineers/mines officers, 2 mineral processing engineers, 2 analytical chemists, 6 geophysicists, 5
mineralogist/petrologists and 206 technicians. While MRD's current professional staff strength is
adequate, there is an imbalance in the skills composition of its staff. There is an oversupply of
geologists, concentrated in the Geology Division and an undersupply of mining engineers and mineral
processing engineers, which are the skills required to undertake mine inspection work. In addition,
MID needs to strengthen technical skills in such specialized areas as mineral economics, gemology,
and environmental management. While there are an adequate number of trained mining technicians,
their skills and experience levels are generally low and will need to be upgraded.
26.   Within MRD, the Mines Division is responsible for the bulk of MRD's field operational
activities. The responsibilities of the Mines Division include inspection of mines and processing
plants; enforcement of mine safety regulations (includiDg control of explosives and investigation of
mine accidents); extension services to miners; evaluation, grant and registration of mineral claims and
titles, processing of reconnaissance, prospecting and mining licenses; receipt of mine returns; and
collection of mineral revenues. The present manpower position of the Mines Division includes 9
officers/technicians at Mines Headquarters (Dodoma) and 126 officers/technicians/clerical staff in its
Zonal and District Offices. Tables 1.1 and 1.2 provide information on the current professional staff
strength and skills gap in MRD's Divisions and its field offices, respectively.
27.   Although MRD has experienced a sharp increase in its workload, the resources at its disposal
(personnel, equipment and facilities, and operating budget) has remained unchanged for many years.
The FY94 budget for MRD amounts to about Tsh. 200 million, which is clearly inadequate for MRD
to perform its basic regulatory functions. As a result, processing of mineral rights and claims
applications have been subjected to long delays, the minerals title registration system has not been
updated, and only a fraction of mineral revenues have been collected. Mine safety and enviromnental
inspection on small-scale mining sites have been neglected, and the mine accidents, environmental
degradation and poor health and sanitation have remained unchecked. With respect to medium and
large-scale prospecting operations currently underway, the capacity constraint of MRD's field offices
has meant that MRD could not effectively monitor Licensees' wcrk requirements. Progress in
regional geological mapping has also been poor, averaging only two Quarter Degree Sheets per year
in the 1990-93 period as compared with 84 Map Sheets which still need to be published to give a
complete coverage of the country.



Table 1.0
Production of Main Minerals, 1962-92
1962       1970      1980      1985     1990 I 1991    1992         Percent Change
(a) Industrial                                                                    1962-1980  1980-1992
Diamonds (kg)      134.0    142.0      54.2      43.4   L J  _ _                     -60
Gemstones (kg)     330.0   1,072.0   5,748.0     218.3                              +1,642
Gold (kg)        3,059.0     245.0      2.0      42.3   1,643   3,851    3,154       -99     +1,477
Mica (tons)         97.0      57.0      4.0       0.3   0.1      0.0       0.0       -96       -
Tin (tons)         295.0    213.0       11.0      1.8   14.0    6.0        6.0       -96      -45
Kaolin (tons)      159.0    464.0   5,381.0   1,600.0  2,000   2,000    2,000       +3,284    -63
Magnesite (tons)    -        775.0      0.0              0.0     0.0       0.0        -
Gypsum (tons)     2,165.0  20,718.0   9,690.0  14,400.0  36,000  9,000    15,000     +34      +55
Meerschaum (tons)    15.0     10.0      4.0       0.0   0.0      0.0       0.0       -63    _
Salt (tons)      29,769.0  41,944.0  37,028.0  43,400.0  39,000  64,000  77,000      +24      + 107
Coal (tons)       3,024.0   2,664.0   6,716.0   6,600.0  42,000  75,000  70,000     +122%    +942
Phosphate (tons)   N/A       N/A       N/A    26,500.0  26,000  2,000    2,000        -
(b) Unregistered Production aL  _   _         _         _                _       _ 
Diamonds (kg)    i                                                          1.5   _ __
Gemstones (kg)                                                           500.0    _                              x
Gold                  _   _                                               1,500.0  _                           o
Tin (tons)                                                                  0.2
isank estuams, informal producuon estimates refer to annual averages during recent years.
Source: Tanzanian authorties; statstcal series.



- 26 -
Annex 1
Page 8 of 14
Table 1.1
Established Professional and Technical Positions and Staffing Status
(Excluding Field Offices)
Job/Skills Category               Established   F_e         Staffng
Positions                Need
_____________________________________________ ________  + or -
OFFICE OF COMMISSIONER
Mining Engineer                                    2           2           -1
Geologist                                          5            1
Gemologist                                         1            -
Mineral Economist                                  1            1          + 1
Legal Officer                                      1            1          + 1
Technician                                         2            -
GEOLOGY DIVISION
Geologist                                          56          50          -10
Librarian                                          -            1          + 1
Techncian                                         179          97          -17
MINES DIVISION (Headquarters Only)
Mining Engineer                                    6           2           +5
Geologist                                          3            3
Technician                                         9            9          -3
RESEARCH & LAB SERVICES DIVISION
Mineral Processing Engineer                        17          2           +3
Analytical Chemist                                 13           2          +4
Mineralogist/Petrologist                           11          5
Technician                                         27          17
MINERAL TRADE DIVISION
Gemologist                                         2            1
Geologist                                          2            1          -1
Mineral Economist                                  1            -          + 1
Statistician                                       1            -          + 1
Technician                                         6            4          +2
TOTAL                           345         199         -13
Notw a: Thc redundant poswition would be shifted to the Zonal and District Offices.



- 27 -
Annex 1
Page 9 of 14
Table 1.2
Current Staffing Position of Field Offices
Fied Offices        Min      Inspector    Geologist    Technicisn   Office Staff   TAL
Officer    of Minae
ZONAL OFFICES
Arusha                      1          2           1           6           3           12
MKwara                      -          -                       3           2           5
Mwanza                      1          1                      2            6           10
Morogoro                    1          1                       9           9           19
Shinyanga                              1          1           6            1           9
Mbeya                       1          1          1           5            4           12
Tanga                       1          -                       5           5           10
Mpanda                                 -          -           5            -           5
Singida                                -          -            -           -           -
DISTRICT OFFICES
Chunya                      1          -          -            7           2           9
Tarime                      1          -          -            2           -           2
Mahenge                          -           -           -           -                 -
Kahama                      -          -          -            5           -           5
Songea                      -          -          -            2           1           3
Nzega                       -          -          -            -           -           -
Musoma                                                        4                        4
Handeni                                      -                 -----
Same                                                                 -                 -
Kayanga                     1                                  5                       6
Geita                       1                                 5            1           7
Buzimba                     -                                  7           -           7
Kasanga                          -                -            1           -           1
Total Current Staffing      9          6          3           79           34         127
Additional Stafig         +133                    +      |   +18          Ai     [   42b
|Need
NOTE: ^I     additional staffing need for Office Staff categoly will vary with field offices;
bl     excluding Office Staff categoly and to be filled though itmeal tnueu firom hodquute Divions.



- 28 -
Annex 1
Page 10 of 14
Attachnent to Annex 1
Current leal and Fiscal Framework a/
1.    This appendix describes the current legal and fiscal framework within which the Tanzanian
mining sector is currently operating. This information provides a background against which the
proposed changes in the legal and fiscal framework can be reviewed.
A. Legal Framework
2.    The Mining Act of Tanzania was passed in 1979 and subsequently policy papers were
published which basically established a monopoly in the mining sector for the government. In 1985
Tanzania introduced a trade liberalization policy. A number of initiatives were taken culminting in
the passage of the National Investment Promotion and Protection Act (IPA) in 1990. The IPA
declares that mining is a priority sector even though it specifically excludes petroleum and mining
from its provisions. The IPA eliminated the virtual government monopoly in the sector, thus opening
the way for domestic and foreign private sector investment.
3.    This new liberalization has meant that more foreign mining companies are interested in
worling in Tanzania. Much of the interest is based on the known geology which is considered very
promising. However, the legislation, regulations and implementation procedures have not been
amer.-^ed to address the change in interest. The present legislative/regulatory regime is a 'hodge
podge' of legislation, regulations, guidelines and procedures to the point where the legislative regime
is neither coherent nor transparent. At present, there are a number of Acts, ordinances, regulations
and notices which affect mining in the country. These are:
Mining Act, 1979
Mining Controlled Areas Ordinance, Principal Legislation,
C. 124
Mining Controlled Areas Ordinance, Subsidiary Legislation, C. 124
Mining Controlled Areas Ordinance, C. 124 1950-54 edition
-      Mining Loans Ordinance, Principal Legislation, C. 125
-     Mining Loans Ordinance, Subsidiary Legislation, C. 125
-     Mining Loans, Goverment Notice, No. 478 of 1962
]I Sources include: UNDESD Mission Report 1993
World Bank: Mining Sector Review 1990 (9007-TA)



- 29 -
Annex 1
Page II of 14
Mining Mineral Oil Ordinance, C. 126
Mining Mineral Oil Ordinance, C. 339
Mining (Prospecting Rights) Regulations, Supplement No. 3, Government Notice No.
4
Mining (Claims) Regulations, Supplement No. 4
Mining (Mineral Rights) Regulations, Regulations 1980, Government Notice No. 6
Mining (Designated Areas) Notice 1980, Government Notice, No. 6
Gold Trading Ordinance, C. 127
Diamond Industry Protection Ordinance, C. 129 plus Amendment
Diamond Industry Protection Ordinance Regulations
Gemstone Industry Development and Protection Act, 1967 Act No. 11
Gemstone Act, Government Notice No. 203
Gemstone Industry (Development and Protection) Regulations 1969, Government
Notice No. 190
Companies (Regulation of Dividends and Surpluses and Miscellaneous Provisions)
Act 1972, Government Notice No. 159 of 18/8/72
Companies Act of 1972, Government Notice No. 161 of 18/8/72
Public Corporations Act of 1969, Government Notice No. 163 of 18/8/72
(STAMICO)
Public Corporations Act of 1969, Government Notice No. 299 of 24/11/72
Explosives Act, 1963
Explosives Regulations 1964
Mining (Subsidiary Legislation)
Ihe Mining (Safe Working) Regulations (1930, 1934, and 1940)
The Mining (Royalty) Regulations 1980
Assayers Rules 1945



- 30 -
Annex 1
Page 12 of 14
4.    Much of the legislation listed is seldom, if ever, used but it does apply and its existence
increases the possibilities of conflict and confusion. For instance, while the Mining Ordinance,
Principal Legislation was repealed by the 1979 Mining Act, the Subsidiary Legislation remains.
5.    The Mining Act, 1979 was passed when government had a monopoly on mining activity.
It was not written with a private investor in mind and as such, it has some glaring gaps some of
which include a lack of security of tenure and registry system which causes procedural problems.
While there is reporting required, the Government has little protection regarding reporting and
expenditures on exploration properties. In addition, there is an unusual degree of discretion given
to officials under the Mining Act. Of 104 sections, 51 are discretionary; further adding to
cumbersome and inefficient administrative processes. In an assessment of the 1979 Act, it is apparent
that there needs to be a major revision probably best achieved by a new act which will reflect the new
policy direction of the Government.
6.    The Model Investment Agreemen is used by the Tanzanian authorities as the basis for
negotiation for major mining projects where the investor seeks guarantees over and above those
provided in the existing legal and fiscal framework. Tanzania has a model agreement which is very
detailed and time consuming to negotiate. If the law was to be revised to take care of issues which
are presently wanting, this agreement would be a less arduous exercise. Once revisions to the law
are made, it should be possible to drop the necessity of an agreement for the exploration stage as well
as reconnaissance. It is likely that investors will continue to request an agreement for major
investments, but the process should be greatly simplified.
B. Fscal Framework
7.    The fiscal framework for mining is in general that provided for under the Income Tax Act,
but investors who opt to negotiate a Mining Investment Agreement are able to obtain different terms.
The basic provisions are as follows.
8.    The fiscal framework is laid out in the Second and Third Schedules of the Income Tax Act.
Part HI of the Second Schedule determines the deductions from taxable income of mining operations.
All pre-operation expenditures for exploration and development are deductible at a rate of 40 percent
in the first year of mining operations and 10 percent in each of the following six years. More rapid
depreciation may be granted by the Commissioner of Mines if the mine is expected to be worked out
in less than six years. The third Schedule sets the income tax for specified minerals at 17-1/2 percent
for the first four years of profitable operation and 35-40 percent thereafter.
9.    Payments of dividends, interest on loans, and management fees are subject to withholding
taxes. The current rates are 20 percent for dividend payments to non-residents and 10 percent for
payments to resident shareholders, 20 percent for interest payments on overseas loans, and 30 percent
for management fees to non-residents. The IPA indicates that the current withholding rates for
dividends will be reduced to 10 and 5 percent for non-residents and residents, respectively.
Withholding rates for royalties will be reduced to 20 percent while withholding taxes on interest
payments for foreign loans will remain unchanged at 20 percent.



- 31 -
Annex 1
Page 13 of 14
C. The Mining Title System
10.   The Mining Act establishes a licensing system for control of prospecting and mining. The
Act provides for three kinds of license:
(a)    The Reconnaissance License
(b)    The Prospecting License
(c)    The Mining License
11.   The definition of a mineral right refers to any of these licenses, and mineral rights can only
be a granted to a corporate body and not an individual.
(a)    The Reconnaissance License
12.   This authorizes the holder to make surface searches for minerals, and sub-surface work is
only permitted where the Minister is satisfied it is in the public interest. This kind of license Is of
short duration, normally one year, and covers large areas. No exclusive rights are conferred unless
the Minister considers there are special reasons for this. An application for a Reconnaissance License
must submit a program of reconnaissance operations for approval and submit detailed reports on the
results obtained.
13.   The Minister may review the license with or without modification of its conditions for a
period not exceeding one year. There are no automatic rights to the granting of a Prospecting
License.
(b)    The Prospecting License
14.   Exclusive rights under this are granted to prospect for the particular minerals or minerals to
which the license extends. This means that two or more mining companies may hold licenses over
the same area for different minerals. This is a potential problem in the legislation. An application
for a Prospecting License has to be accompanied by information on the financial standing and
technical competence of the applicant together with a proposed program of work accompanied by
satisfactory proposals for training and employment of Tanzanians.
15.   The initial term is a maximum of three years with renewal over 50 percent of the License
area for another two terms of two years each, provided the proposed work program during the
renewal period is satisfactory. Further extensions are granted at the Ministers's discretion.
(c)    The Mining License
16.   Where the holder of a Prospecting License discovers minerals in commercial quantities, the
law gives that person a statutory right to the granting of a Mining License. However, no obligation
exists until the applicant submits a plan of mining operations that ensures the most efficient and
beneficial use of the mineral resources discovered. The Act empowers the Minister to require the
applicant to commission, at his own expense, an independent feasibility study before granting a
Mining License. The applicant for a Mining License, to be made only by a locally incorporated
company, must give details of the ore reserves, proposed mining program, production, capacity,



- 32 -
Annex I
Page 14 of 14
financing forecasts of costs and revenue for the first years of operation, proposals on pollution
control, and proposals on the employment and training of Tanzanians and the purchase of goods and
services in Tanzania.
(d)   Termination of ExDloration or Mining Rights
17.   Under the Act, licensees have a secure title to their exploration or mining rights, unless they
are in breach of the law or any of the terms and conditions under which a license has been granted.
In other words, the holder of a Prospecting License will only be in danger of having his license
revoked if he fails to carry out the approved programs. The same would apply to the Mining License
holder who failed to carry out approved mining operation plans.



Annex 2
-   -              TbEB~ Tim  tMZO  Page 1 of 3
P.O. BOX 9111.
DAR s SuAL
THE UN4IrhD REPUBUC OF TNZANUA
THE EkINLSR FOR FiNANCE
TYC\B\40\54                                    May 06, 1994
t'rancis X. Colaco,
Director,
East African Division,
The World Bank,
1818 H. Street, N.W.,
Was-ington, D.C.,
U.S. e
Dear Mr. Colaco,
RE: LETTER ON MINERAL SECTOR POLICY OF TANZANIA
The purpose of this letter is to confirm the outline
of the Mineral Sector Policy and strategies which will
provide the basis for execution of the proposed Mineral
Sector Development Technical Assistance Project. The
Government has already at its disposal a draft document
which defines the Mineral Sector Policy.
Since 1970s, the Government has been undertaking
various measures to improve its Mineral Sector Policy. Such
measures included enactment of a new Mining Act (1979) with
subsequent regulations and policy adjustments (Large Scale
Mining Policy, 1982 and Small Scale Mining Policy, 1983,
both unpublished). With these in place, the emphasis on
Government majority share-holding in mining ventures still
persisted. However, these measures were significant steps
toward mineral resources development in Tanzania.
The National Investment Promotion Policy of 1990
represents the most recent step in the process of improving
Tanzania's mineral sector policy. Under this new macro-
economic policy, mandatory government participation in all
economic ventures including mining has been abolished. More
emphasis  has  now  been  placed  on  private   sector
participation, whereas, the Mining Act (1979) continues to
govern exploration and exploitation of mineral resources in
the country.
With the present global economic changes, the
Government intends to take further remedial actions to
improve and expand the mining industry.   This letter
describes the overall Mineral Sector Policy commitments in
order to achieve maximum output from the proposed credit
facility.



- 34 -                          Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
OVERALL MINERAL SECTOR POLICY
The Government's principal objective is to increase
mineral sector contribution to the national economy. Other
sectoral objectives include:
(a) To encourage the exploration for, development and
production of mineral resou.ces;
(b) To increase national foreign exchange earnings;
(c) Creation of gainful employment opportunities and
provision   of   alternative   sources   of   income
particularly to the rural population;
(d) To increase government revenue;
(e) To promote forward and backward linkages in mineral
based industries;
(f)  To encourage  and facilitate development of mineral
based local services and supply industries;
(f) To ensure environmental protection and sustainability
in the minerals sector.
From the foregoing, five major policy directions are
defined, viz; Legal and Regulatory, Fiscal, Environmental,
Institutional and Small Scale Mining.
(1)  The Leaal and ReQulatory framework is designed at
creating legal and regulatory environment which is
transparent,   streamlined  and  available  to  all
investors.
(2) The Fiscal Regime has been formulated to ensure that
it  motivates   and  encourages   the   exploration,
deve.!lopment and production of mineral resources by the
private sector.
(3) The Institutional framework has been formulated to
ensure that the mining sector is properly serviced by
a  competent  and  well-trained  professional  and
technical   staff  with   sufficient   resources   to
effectively and efficiently carry out their duties and
responsibilities.
(4)  Environmental  Protection  and ManaQement  has  been
designed to ensure that there is strict adherence to
environmental protection and management governing
mining activities.
(5) Small Scale Mining is designed to ensure that the
present artisanal mining activities are transformed
into organized and efficient small scale mining
operations.



- 35 -                          Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
To achieve the objectives of the above policy
directions, the following strategies will be adopted:-
(i) Establish a conducive environment which will attract
both local and foreign private investments.
(ii) Establish a reliable and effective mineral tenure and
title management system.
(iii)  Institute and enforce laws and regulations which will
govern environmental protection in mining activities.
(iv) Ensure proper and fair government revenues collection.
(v)  Strengthen  institutional  framework  and  capacity
building and ensure long-term sustainability by
allocating adequate financial resources.
(vi) Encourage private sector participation and improvement
of mineral trade market mechanism.
(vii)  Promote organized small scale mining operations to
replace the present haphazard artisanal mining.
(viii) Encourage and promote inter sectoral linkages in the
production and utilization of minerals and provision
of servf.ces related to mining activities.
Recognizing the potential importance of the Mineral
Sector to the economy, the Government places the sector on
a  "Core  Public  Investment  Priorities".  It  is  the
government's belief that the implementation of the proposed
Mineral Sector Development Project will lead to the
establishment of a strong and efficient mineral industry
and stimulate multi-sectoral growth and development.
We believe that the World Bank will give positive
consideration, hence avail the proposed credit facility to
this project.
Kighoma Ali M lima
MINISTER FOR FINANCE
c.c. Hon. Horace Kolimba (MP),
Vice Chairman, Planning Commission,
and Minister of State,
President's Office,
DAR ES SALAAM



- 36 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 7
TANZANIA
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Environmental Issues and Action Plan
A. Background
1.    A systematic effort by the Government of Tanzania to address environmental issues has begun
with the establishment of the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) in 1986. In order
to give a clearer policy direction on environmental issues and to ensure integration of environmental
concerns in national economic planning, the Government created a new Ministry to include Tourism,
Natural Resources and Environment (MTNRE). The MTNRE's Division of Environment is taking
on a direct role in articulating environmental concerns in policy and planning. The Division of
Environment is collaborating with designated contact points in other core and sector ministries to
coordinate implementation of sectoral actions on the environment.
2.    The Government has begun the NEAP process but the progress has been slow. A National
Conservation Strategy for Sustainable Development (NCSSD) and a National Environmental Policy
(NEP) are under preparation. The final version of NCSSD is expected to include the environmental
action plan which will be prepared through a collaborative effort of line Ministries and a process of
consultations at the regional and district levels with local government agencies, NGOs and local
communities. The Government recognizes the urgency to bring this exercise to fruition and is being
assisted by IDA.
3.    Tanzania's chief environmental concerns, on which priority actions are needed, relate to
depletion of natural resource base, particularly land degradation and deterioration of water resources,
the country's high rate of population growth, urban pollution and environmental sanitation and
degradation of Lake Victoria. While the environmental issues emanating from Tanzania's industrial
and mining activities are of lesser importance, they are nevertheless serious and require urgent
attention. In industry, while pollution is not widespread, it often presents serious health risks in
locations where it does occur. Industrial pollution resulting from inadequate treatment and
inappropriate discharge of industrial effluents is already a problem in and around the major urban
centers of Tanzania including Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Arusha, Mwanza and Moshi, adversely affecting
public health, quality of life and the environment. As the incentive and regulatory framework
improves, increased investment by the private sector can be expected to take place and, in the absence
of improved environment protection and monitoring framework and associated public sector capacity,
the industrial expansion may incur serious environmental and social costs.
B. Environmental Issues and Action Plan for the Mining Sector
4.    In the mining sector, the enviromnental concern has not been systematically addressed in the
past due to inadequate policy, legislative and administrative framework and ineffective enforcement
capacity of the public sector institutions. While the Mining Act (1979) and other mining ordinances,
statutes, and concession agreements refer to environment management, some of these laws are old
and outdated and could not be fully implemented and monitored in the absence of detailed standards



- 37 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
and procedures to be complied with. In addition, while much public resource has gone to state-
owned mining operations during the past two decades, the MRD and other government agencies
charged with the responsibility for administering the mining legislation have lacked resources in mine
inspection work in general and environmental enforcement and monitoring in particular. The result
has been a serious inadequacy in enforcement of existing legal and regulatory framework for
environmental protection, mine safety and efficient natural resource management.
5.    The Government has identified, and intends to address in the short to medium-term, the
following priority environmental issues tn the mining sector, for which the Government requires an
external assistance as envisaged under the Project:
(a)   formulating and implementing improved policy, legal, regulatory and
fiscal framework conducive to environmentally sensitive development
of mineral resources, while fostering their ecor,omically and socially
efficient use;
(b)    highlighting  improved  environmental management (planning,
enforcement, monitoring, training and research) as a key aspect of
the sector administration responsibility discharged by MRD and other
public sector institutions and enhancing their manpower and
institutional capacity to this end; and
(c)    addressing the environmental, safety, social and technology issues of
small-scale artisanal miners.
(d)    effectively regulating the use and disposal of toxic materials by
industrial mining companies and addressing the environmental
liabilities (including reclamation) of the state-owned mining
companies upon their closure, privatization and dissolution.
6.    Policy, Legal and Regulatory Framework. The absence of a coherent mining development
policy and modem legal, regulatory and fiscal framework has not only discouraged private investment
in mining but also has undermined the objective of environmentally sensitive and economically and
socially efficient and sustainable utilization of mineral resources. For example, artisanal mining in
the absence of adequate regulatory framework and institutional capacity has brought about
increasingly serious environmental and social problems in a number of small-scale mining villages
scattered throughout the country. Also, the presently ineffective system of tax collection from small-
scale miners has left a large number of small miners still operating illicitly without licenses.
7.    In the case of medium and large-scale industrial mining, the past State-directed and State-led
mineral development policy undermined government's regulatory function in the sector. With the
change of government role in the sector, its regulatory role is being given emphasis. As a first step
to this direction, modem and realistic environmental, mine safety and health standards would be
established by MWEM working in collaboration with MTNRE as part of the new legal and regulatory
framework for the sector. The approval of mining licenses for industrial mining would be subject
to meeting the established standards as demonstrated in the environmental impact assessments to be
made by independent sources. Furthermore, the maintenance of miners' licenses and titles to mineral



- 38 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
rights would be explicitly linked to their continued performance under the standards. In addition, the
new legal and regulatory framework would include the establishment of rational resource-recovery
standards which would be backed up with necessary scrutiny on mine plans and effective and periodic
field monitoring and verification to discourage inefficient uses of resources which have detrimental
effects on the long-term viability and sustainability of the sector.
8.    Another area of deficiency of the present regime is a mechanism for harmonizing the interests
of different users of natural resources and for settling disputes between miners and other surface users
and village/community groups. Under the new mining sector policy, the public sector would play
an important role of harmonizing diverse and conflicting interests and provide an effective mechanism
for setding disputes in all phases of mine planning, development and operation. While maximizing
efforts to attract private investment in mining and its short-term benefits to the macroeconomy
including a fair share of economic rents from mining activities, the Government would give a greater
attention to evaluating long-term externalities of mining investment, especially its contribution to the
welfare of people in the villages and districts and its effect on the objective of sustaining the value
of these finite resources for the development of Tanzanians. To this end, a consultative mechanism
involving people at the grassroots would need to be developed, especially because industrial mining
is likely to be in the hand of large foreign mining concerns whose interest may not necessarily
coincide with that of the people most directly affected by such mining.
9.    Institutional Framework. Given the fact that the existing environmental regulations are not
being effectively enforced due to the weaknesses of public institutions, the Government intends to
underpin the new legal and regulatory framework with a substantial strengthening of manpower and
institutional capacity of concerned public sector institutions in general and MWEM and MRD in
particular. In line with its new role as the primary regulator of the mineral sector, MRD would be
upgraded in its staffing, budget, logistic and manpower capabilities.
10.   Environmental concerns would be filly reflected and integrated into MRD's organizational
structure, staffing and training programs and its budgetary processes. A particular attention would
be given to the urgent need to upgrade the effectiveness of MRD's Mining Division and its zonal
offices with emphasis on the level of staffing, logistics and equipment, and field operating cost to
ensure that the environmental standards, procedures and reporting requirements to be incorporated
into the new legal and regulatory framework are effectively followed by mining industry. A field
monitoring, verification and reporting system by the zonal office staff would be instituted to cover
all mining activities including exploration, prospecting and mining operations by the industry. As
the small-scale mining sector presents immediate and serious environmental problems, MRD would
give an initial emphasis on reactivating its field inspection and monitoring functions and carry out a
baseline data survey with assistance of specialized consultants.
11.   Another dimension of institutional strengthening of MRD would be the establishment of a
clear and up-to-date information on mineral claims and titles. An accurate, transparent and officially
sanctioned mineral rights information system would not only facilitate trading of mineral rights and
claims and thus increased flows of new investment but would encourage improved environmental
management of properties by the current and future license-holders.
12.   Small-Scale Mining. Addressing the environmental problems facing the small-scale minig
sector presents some unusual difficulties and challenges. Tanzania currently is estimated to have



- 39 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 7
more than 100,000 small artisanal miners. Including miners' families and people engaged in trade
and related service activities, total population living in such mining villages scattered throughout the
country may reach up to 500,000. A number of small-scale mining villages producing gold are
concentrated in the districts south and southwest of Lake Victoria where formal industrial mining
activities took place prior to 1960s. But such mining villages may also be found in the central zone
of Tanzania as well as in the northern zone where gemstone is mined by small-scale operators.
Currently small-scale mining is a crucial part of the mining sector as it accounts for almost 90 percent
of Tanzania's total mineral exports (virtually all gold exports).
13.   Small-scale mining activities create some special environmental hazards and safety and health
problems as follows:
(a)    The artisanal pit mining method creates safety problems to miners
and villagers as pits (reportedly as deep as 100 m) are not well
protected and are not reclaimed after cessation of mining. The
fatality rate among small-scale miners has been estimated at 5
percent per annum, which is extremely high;
(b)    The widespread and uncontrolled use of mercury in gold recovery
process contains a serious danger of mercury being released to the
environment (streams, river);
(c)    The unprotected methods of rock crushing and stone grinding are
liable to cause health hazards, especially siicosis and frequently
women are engaged in such operations.
(d)    The lack of clean water, health and sanitary facilities increases the
incidence of communicable diseases and HIV/AIDS is said to be
spreading fast among miners and their families.
14.   The Government recognizes the complex and intractable nature of problems facing small-scale
mining and is aware that it will take time for the sector to be able to effectively deal with a number
of mounting and potentially catastrophic problems. The Government intends to launch a series of
initiatives with the objective of bringing the issues under control:
(a)    The first priority would be to undertake a survey of the sector to
establish baseline data, to assess the magnitude of economic, legal,
technical, environmental and social problems involved and to provide
inputs into the process of formulating and fine-tuning legal, fiscal
and regulatory framework;
(b)    The MRD's staffing, organizational and logistic resources and
capabilities to effectively regulate and monitor the sector would be
provided, an experienced team of consultants would be employed to
formulate specific strategies and detailed design of intervention
measures and to train MRD staff including a study tour to other



- 40 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 7
African countries which have similar problems and potentials and
which are managing the sector more effectively;
(c)    An on-site technology demonstration program would be launched to
enable miners to observe the environmental, health and productivity
benefits of simple and available technology (e.g., the use of mercury
retorts, simple crushers, submersible pumps, the protection of pits);
At the same time, geological services and technical extension would
be provided;
(d)    The regulatory and monitoring function of MRD would be gradually
intensified with the objectives of, first, regularizing currently illicit
mining activities and completing the data base, and second,
progressively enforcing standards and norms developed for small-
scale mining including tax collection, safety and environmental
measures, etc.;
(e)    Small-scale mirners would be allowed to sell their mineral rights and
claims freely with a view to encouraging the formation of modem
formal mining ventures by small and medium-scale Tanzanian
investors. The establishment of a reliable, up-to-date and transparent
information system on the mineral rights and prospecting and mining
licenses would facilitate such transactions; and
(t)    The Government would encourage the participation of small-scale
miners in the search for, and the implementation of, sustainable
solutions to the environmental and social problems. To this end, the
Government would encourage the institutional development of the
Regional Miners Associations and encourage them to take self-help
and self-policing measures for the preservation of the environment.
In addition, the Government would assist the Regional Miners
Associations in carrying out small miners training programs
including the training of miners to acquire a Competent Miners
Certificate.
15.   State-owned Mines. The restructuring and divestiture of mining parastatals are being
managed by the Parastatal Sector Reform Commission and is being supported by a Parastatal and
Public Sector Reform Project (PPRP) recently approved by IDA. The operation of most of the
mining parastatals has ceased and the mines closed down. In the process of restructuring and
divestiture, it will be important to incorporate the environmental concerns and issues into the
restructuring and divestiture strategy and design. An important task is to assess and assign the
environmental liabilities of the mining parastatals subject to privatization or liquidation, especially
with regard to necessary mine reclamation work and to environmentally safe handling and disposal
of toxic materials.



- 41 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 7
C. The Role of the Project
16.   The project would serve as a main vehicle for highlighting the importance of environmental
concern and integrating it into the process of planning and administration of Tanzania's mineral
sector. At the same time, the project would provide necessary resources to help MWEM in
articulating its environmental policies, strategy and programs in the mining sector and to implement
them in close coordination with the Planning Commission, MTNRE, MOF and other Ministries and
Government Agencies. Thus, the project would play an important role of accelerating the NEAP
process by focussing on a series of priority environmental actions in the national and sectoral context
and by providing the Government with necessary technical and institutional capacity to begin the
process of implementing concrete environmental policy measures in the mineral sector.
17.   Specifically, the project would include the following components which would have direct
bearings on Tanzania's objectives of: (a) enhancing the environmental quality; (b) encouraging
efficient and sustainable utilization of its depletable natural resources; and (c) promoting the welfare
of its people at the grassroots.
18.   Legal, Fiscal and Regulatory Reform. Consultancies would be provided to review all
existing Acts, Ordinances, Rules and Regulations relevant to mining and mineral development and
rationalize and streamline them. The guiding policy for the purpose of this exercise will be the
private sector-oriented mining and mineral development with government playing a new role of the
administrator and regulator of the sector and that of the guardian of legitimate public interests. As
part of these consultancies, a team of environmental experts would be employed to assess
environmental aspects of mining and mineral development and to assist in incorporating necessary
changes into new legislation, rules, regulations and procedures. The consultants who would work
in close coordination with the officials of the Environment Division of MTNRE would also develop
for the first time in Tanzania specific environmental standards to be applied to all aspects of mining
industry operations (in exploration, mining, ore processing, etc), prepare Operational Manual and
train MRD staff both at headquarters and in the field offices.
19.   Institutional Strengthening of MRD. The project would provide technical assistance,
consultancies, training, equipment and logistic support to enable MRD to fully and effectively
implement the new mining sector policy, legal and regulatory regime. An emphasis would be given
to strengthening organizational, manpower and logistic capabilities of MRD's Mining Division and
its zonal offices so that mine inspection, field verification of the progress of required work program
and environmental and mine safety monitoring may be made carried out effectively and periodically.
Training of MRD staff in evaluating environmental impact of investment projects and ongoing mining
operations and cross-sector issues of environment (and use, water quality, human settlements,
industrial pollution, etc.) as well as operational aspect of environmental monitoring and reporting
would be included in the project along with the organizational strengthening and staff training to help
harmonize sometimes conflicting interests among miners, other users of natural resources, and
villages/communities.
20.   Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining. Addressing the environmental issues along with the work
safety and health problems facing small-scale miners and their families would be the main focus of
project intervention in this sector. The project would provide consultancies, equipment, materials,



- 42 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
staff training and operating costs to enable MRD to launch various initiatives as aforementioned,
which would include:
(a)    a small-scale mining survey and baseline data collection;
(b)    design of intervention strategies and programs, training of staff and
study tours;
(c)    dissemination of information and field demonstration of technologies
to help mitigate the negative environmental effects of small-scale
mining and to improve productivity of small miners;
(d)    provision of geological and laboratory services, technical extension
to help improve productivity and viability of small-scale mines;
(e)   information, education and communication program to sensitize small
miners to environmental, work safety and social problems attendant
to small-scale mining;
(f)   training of small-scale miners to acquire Competent Mimers
Certificates and business skills through the Regional Miners
Associations;
(g)    provision of technical assistance and training for the strengthening of
the Regional Miners Associations.



- 43 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 10
TANZANIA
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining Sub-Sector
A.    Position in the National Economy
1.    Production and exports. Tanzania's leading mineral commodity in terms of value of
producton is gold, accounting for more than 75 percent of total mineral export earnings, followed
by diamonds and colored gemstones with a share of 15.6 percent and 6.0 percent respectively of
declared mineral export revenues in 1992. It is estimated that in the case of gold and colored
gemstones less than 50 percent of present production is actually sold through official channels. The
true value of the mineral production of Tanzania is therefore likely to be more than US$100 million
per year, of which some 90 percent are attributable to the small-scale sub-sector including artisanal
operations. Small-scale mining thus is a major generator of scarce foreign exchange in Tanzania.
2.    Employment and Income: The principal contribution of the sub-sector however lies in its
capacity of providing opportunities for economic activity in the rural interior of Tanzania where
alternative possibilities of work are scarce and low paying. While no reliable data on the number of
persons engaged in artisanal and small-scale mining are available, recent reported estimates range
from a low of 50,000 to a high of several hundred thousands. Information obtained from zonal
officers and representatives of miners associations indicates that in each of the high-intensity mining
iegions of Lake Victoria and Morogoro some 60,000 persons are currently active in mineral
extraction. Including indirect, seasonal and intermittent workers, total employment related to artisanal
and small-scale mining is therefore likely to exceed 300,000.
3 .    Average monthly incomes of persons engaged in gold and gemstone mining reportedly are
in the area of Tsh. 15,000 for unskilled artisanal mine workers and Tsh. 40,000 for pit sub-
contractors - amounts which are considerably above the minimum wage level and above comparative
incomes paid in public sector employment. Substantial purchasing power thus becomes available in
the small-scale mining districts. Much of the income generated is immediately spent on consumption
thereby stimulating economic activities and employment in other sectors of the local economy and
significantly contributing to rural development.
B.    Structure of the Sub-Sector
4.    Produding ArM: The principal gold producing areas are the Lake Victoria goldfields, the
Lupa goldfields and the Mpanda goldfields, although extensive gold mining also occurs elsewhere
such as in Singida, Tabora, Iringa, Dodoma, Morogoro and Mbeya Region. Artisanal and small-scale
diamond mining is concentrated in the central part of the Tanzanian craton in Shinyanga and Kahama
Regions. The range of colored gemstones mined includes tanzanite, a blue colored variety of
clinozoisite, as well as ruby, sapphire, emerald, garnet, amesthyst, rhodolite and tourmaline.
Tanzanites are mainly mined in the Arusha and Moshi Region, rubies, sapphires, amethysts and
tourmalines in the Morogoro Region and sapphires, tourmalines and garnets in the Tanga Region.



- 44 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 10
5.    Small Mining Enterpris: From a structural and organizational perspective the sub-sector
comprises two distinct categories, i.e. artisanal operations and small mining enterprises. Small mining
enterprises are formally registered legal entities usually in the form of limited liability companies,
single proprietary companies or co-operatives. These enterprises generally have basic management
structures and product marketing arrangements and a minimum degree of mechanization in mining
and mineral processing. Currently approximately two dozen small mining enterprises of this type exist
in Tanzania, primarily in colored gemstone and gold mining. Small mining companies typically have
a hired labor force in the range of 30 to 200 persons and pay wages between Tsh. 7,000 and 12,000
per person-month. The employer also provides tools, food and basic medical assistance to the
workers.
6.    Formal Artisanal Mining: The main characteristic of artisanal mining is the absence of a
formal legal enterprise, although the mining activities as such are usually well organized. Most of the
gold and much of the colored gemstones mined in Tanzania are produced in this category of the sub-
sector. Artisanal mining is conducted both as an informal spontaneous activity without legal title to
the land worked and as a formal operation on registered claims. An example of formal artisanal
mining is the Mgusu gold mining area near Geita which is covered by two claims held by Mr. Peter
W. Chapaka. Currently a total of 330 pits are operated on the two claims, each headed by a pit sub-
contractor. The average number of miners working in a pit is 15, resulting in a total labor force of
some 5,000 persons in the Mgusu mine. As in other gold mining areas, work is conducted under a
production sharing arrangement, whereby the claimholder is entitled to 30 percent of the ore
produced, while the pit sub-contractor and the miners each get 35 percent of the production. The pit
sub-contractor usually supervises the work in his pits and has to provide tools, food and basic medical
care to the workers. The claimholder maintains a staff of inspectors to make sure that no gold is
smuggled out of the workings.
7.    Informal Artisanal Mining: An example of the informal artisanal mining category is the
Nzuguni goldrush area near Dodoma which developed rapidly after a reported gold discovery in late
1992. The area which covers about 20 hectares has not been licensed and therefore the usual system
of claimholders and pit sub-contractors does not exist. Instead the deposit is worked by a number of
groups of miners assembled on an ad hoc basis each selecting its own site for a pit to be worked. The
miners had migrated from gold mining areas in Geita and Shinynaga after hearing the news of the
new discovery. Attempts by the zonal mining authority to legalize the area have not been successful
as the miners have not been willing to formally register claims.
8.    Miners Associations: As part of its policy to promote the evolution of formal small-scale
mIining, the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM) has actively encouraged the formation
of miners and mineral dealers associations both on a regional and national level. Recently a Tanzania
Chamber of Mines was established for the purpose of promoting, encouraging, protecting and
fostering the mining industry. At the regional level, a total of 16 Regional Miners Associations
(REMAs) have been registered with an aggregate membership of more than 4,000 claimholders and
holders of prospecting licences (see Table 5.0). In 1986 the Federation of Miners Associations of
Tanzania (FEMATA) was formed as an apex organization at the national level to coordinate the
activities of the REMAs and to establish a bridge between the mining industry and Government. The
main objectives of FEMATA and the REMAs are to (i) act as the principal Government adviser on
ausanal and small-scale mining matters, (ii) promote and safeguard the interests of miners in their
operations, including prospecting, mining and mineral trade, (iii) explore the availability of



- 45 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 10
appropriate mining equipment and machinery, (iv) request th e Government to offer extension services
to prospectors and miners, (v) encourage miners to sell their minerals through legal channels, and
(vi) seek capital in terms of grants and loans for small miners.
9.    TAMIDA: As a separate body representing the interests of mineral traders, the Tanzania
Mineral Dealers Association (TAMIDA) was established in 1989 with headquarters in Dar es Salaan
and branch offices in Arusha and Mwanza. The objectives of TAMIDA are to (i) form an intra-
industry link between gemstone and gold dealers and exporters, (ii) cooperate with Government
authorities to improve the efficiency of buying and export of gold and gemstones in accordance with
existing regulations, (iii) cooperate with regional miners associations and international dealers in
sector development, and (iv) consult with Government on ways to improve the performance of the
mineral sector. TAMIDA currently has a total of 105 members comprising both individuals and
companies licensed in trading gold and gemstones.
10.   The performance of the REMAs and TAMIDA has been variable. While TAMIDA has
reportedly been successful in pursuing its objectives, some of the REMAs have not been able to fulfill
their role mainly due lack of resources and inadequate leadership. Efforts are currently being directed
toward strengthening the REMAs through electing chairpersons and executive secretaries with
adequate management capabilities. In addition, plans are being discussed to establish a CLamber of
Mines as a more effective body to represent the common interests of the mining industry. While most
of the REMAs still lack promotional capabilities, the concept of addressing the needs of artisanal and
small-scale miners through associations is highly useful. Strengthening these associations to transform
them into efficient promotional organizations will therefore be an important step in the process of
continued sub-sector evolution.
C.    Mining and Processing Practices
11.   GeQIoiy otDeposits: Mining and processing practices employed in the extraction of minerals
are frequently related to the geology of the deposit worked and the nature of the ore. Most of the
gold in Tanzania occurs in thin quartz reef structures and lode occurrences with localized secondary
enrichment zones, mineralizations that are generally difficult to mine. Some eluvial and cemented
placer deposits of limited size which are easier to mine occur in the Nyanza and Lupa district
respectively. Gemstones occur in pegmatites as well as in eluvial and alluvial deposits underlain by
granulitic bedrock. In view of the usually small dimensions of the mineralizations and their frequently
highly irregular form, most of the deposits are not amenable to open-pit mining on a medium- or
large-scale. As in the past, the future of Tanzania's mineral industry will, therefore, mainly consist
of small underground hard rock mines.
12.   Gemstone Mning: In gemstone mining most of the formal small mines use some mechanical
equipment for overburden removal and rock extraction. The gemstone bearing rock is usually
extracted by drilling and protective blasting using low velocity explosives. Processing plants typically
consist of a small crusher, a washing drum, screens and jigs. In artisanal colored gemstone and
diamond workings miners use simple manual tools such as picks, shovels, hammers and chisels for
ore extraction, wheelbarrows for horizontal transport and handwinches for vertical haulage.
Processing of the ore is by hand screening, washing and finally hand sorting on trays and screens.



- 46 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 10
13.   Gold Mining: The typical mining method in artisanal gold mining is by pitting. Pits of 10
to 50 m depth are sunk in the mineralized reefs using pick and shovel in the unconsolidated ground
and hammer and chisel in the hard rock. Pits are placed at a distance of 5 to 10 m and interconnected
at depth by small lateral tunnels driven in the reef. With increasing depth, artisanal mining rapidly
encounters technical limitations due to the inflow of mine water, lack of ventilation and diffculties
in ore hoisting. The processing cycle is also entirely manual and starts with crushing the ore to minus
10 mm with a sledgehammer, manual grinding in hardwood mortars with steel pestles and in some
cases fine grinding on grinding stones frequently worked by women. After grinding the ore is
concentrated by sluicing and panning. The concentrate is finally amalgamated with mercury and the
gold recovered by heating the amalgam in a pan or on a shovel over an open fire.
14.   Lesses: In the process of mine development and ore extraction, the artisanal miner usually
follows only visual indicators of the presence of gold, notably visible gold or the black color of the
reef. Since the presence of gold is visible only at high concentrations, this practice necessarily leads
to a process of highgrading and reduced resource exploitation. In the absence of a systematic stoping
method, a large portion of the mineralized ore is moreover left behind in the pillars between the pits.
Finally, given the crude processing techniques typically used in artisanal gold mining, much of the
gold in the fine fraction is lost in the tailings. While quantitative data on gold recovery are not
available, in many artisanal operations total recovery is likely to be less than 50 % of the mineable
gold in place due to the combined effect of the factors discussed. Thus, the introduction of
appropriate mining and processing techniques to improve product recovery and enhance productivity
must be considered a high priority.
15.   Eouiument Needs: Basic equipment needs in ore extraction comprise compressors,
jackhammers or rock drills, water pumps and ventilation units, with a single package for a small
operation valued at approximately US$ 20,000. Processing equipment for gold ore would consist of
small crushers, pulverizers and screens, sluice boxes and centrifugal concentrators, such as the
Knelson concentrator, with a single package amounting to some US$ 25,000 - 30,000. Equipment
of this type and size is currently being offered by Tanganyika Geological Services Co. Ltd. in
Mwanza which specializes in Canadian manufactured process equipment for small-scale miners.
Mining equipment and supplies are also available from Mwanza General Supplies Ltd., and DM
Investments Ltd. of Mwanza reportedly has the capability of manufacturing mineral processing
equipment locally.
16.   Essentially all of the equipment required in small-scale gold and gemstone mining and
processing is furthermore available from specialized suppliers in Zimbabwe. According to comments
made by small miners, the main problem however is not money but lack of information on the use
and availability of appropriate mining and processing equipment. Demonstration of technology and
eqidipment through REMAs would therefore be an important promotional initiative.



- 47 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 10
D. Health, Safety and Environmental Aspects
17.   Health and Safety: Apart from low labor productivity and heavy precious mineral losses,
artisanal mining also has a record of poor health and safety standards and environmentally hazardous
mining and processing practices. Safety problems associated with caving of ground frequently occur
in artisanal underground workings due to insufficient roof support and in open pit mining due to
inadequate benching of pit walls. A serious health and safety problem is the lack of sufficient
ventilation in deep underground pits. In the Mgusu gold mining area, for example, two miners
reportedly suffocated in early January 1994 in a deep pit without adequate ventilation.
18.   A major health issue in most of the artisanal gold rush villages and towns is the lack of
adequate sanitary facilities and potable water. Another potential health hazard in hard rock gold
mining is the absence of precautions against airborne dust which causes silicosis in cases of extended
periods of exposure. Principal sources of airborne dust are the use of rock drills and jackhammers
without water flushing and the manual fine grinding of ore with grinding stones. The provision of
basic sanitary installations and safe drinking water by claim-holders should therefore be made part
of the health and safety regulations. Similarly, artisanal and small miners should be instructed to
implement precautions against airborne dust, iotably to use face masks to prevent the dust from
entering the respiratory system.
19.   Mercury Problem: A health problem specific to gold mining is the possibility of mercury
poisoning. Mercury is extensively and liberally used in the final gold recovery process by
amalgamation. Workers involved in this process are exposed to both elemental mercury in the liquid
state and to mercury vapor escaping from open cycle distillation of the amalgam. The use of mercury
alsu poses a serious environmental hazard. Some 80 percent of the gold produced by artisanal and
small-scale miners is being amalgamated at some stage in the recovery process, with the gold
amalgam typically containing 50 to 60 percent by weight of mercury. Since the gold is usually
recovered by heating the amalgam in open devices, much of the mercury is released to the
atmosphere.
20.   Assuming that total formal and informal artisanal and small-scale gold production is in the
order of 150,000 ounces per year, some 5 tons of mercury are potentially being introduced into the
ecosystems annually. Every effort therefore has to be made to reduce mercury emissions through the
widespread introduction of safe practices, in particular the use of closed-cycle retorting. Mercury
retorts are available from Tangayika Geological Services Company Ltd. in Mwanza at a cost of US$
180 a piece. An inexpensive amalgam retort has recently also been developed by the Institute of
Production Innovation (IPI) of the University of Dar es Salaam, with a mercury recovery rate of 99.6
percent. IPI is offering the device for less than Tsh. 15,000 a piece which is equivalent to the current
local price of 1 kg of mercury. Plans are underway to offer this technology to local manufacturers
for countrywide dissemination.
21.   Land Derdatlon: Artisanal and small-scale miners moreover cause the destruction of
vegetation and natural fauna habitats, the contamination of soil and groundwater through the use of
chemical such as mercury and cyanide, the alienation of the natural landscape and the degradation
of large areas of land, as mined out areas are usually abandoned without post-mining land
reclamation. As a consequence, much of the land worked by the miners is left with a pattern of pits,
trenches and piles of waste material and without vegetation and soil cover. Abandoned and unsecured



- 48 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 10
pits and shafts also pose a grave safety hazard to people and livestock, potentially resulting in injuries
from accidental falls. Effectively addressing the environmental impact of mining through the
education of miners and the progressive enforcement of adequate regulations is a matter of priority.
E. Product Marketing
22.   Gold Marketing: After nearly 20 years of a marketing monopoly held by the State Mining
Corporation (STAMICO), the Government liberalized the marketing of minerals LA. 1988, licensing
individuals and private companies as mineral dealers. Moreover, in 1990 a gold bhying scheme was
introduced through the Bank of Tanzania (BOT), which also involves the branch offices of the
National Bank of Commerce (NBC) and the Cooperative and Rural Developme.nt Bank (CRDB) in
the gold mining districts acting as buying agents for a 1 percent commissio!. The scheme has been
highly successful in the initial period with official exports of gold increasing from US$ 1.2 million
in 1989 to US$ 40.2 million in 1992. Principal success factors are that buying banks are located in
the gold mining areas, that they have the resources for immediate cash payment and that miners are
allowed to retain 70 percent of the export value of the minerals in foreign exchange.
23.   In recent months official sales through branch offices of banks in the gold mining areas
however started to decline significantly. At the NBC branch office in Geita which is one of the
principal gold producing districts, monthly gold sales dropped from 181 kg in November 1992 to 12
kg in June 1993 and further to 2 kg in December 1993. This dramatic reduction in official sales is
largely due to the fact that prices set by the Bank of Tanzania have not been changed since August
1991, inspite of the fact that the value of the Tanzanian Shillings has been continuously eroded
through inflation which currently runs at 27 % percent. The price offered by the banks is Tsh.
3,770/gram for alluvial gold and Tsh. 3,560/gram for reef gold, equivalent to US$8.4/gram and
US$7.9/gram respectively at January 1994 exchange rates. This compares to an international gold
price of currently US$12.3/gram. Indications are that unless a more market-oriented pricing formula
is applied by the Bank of Tanzania, much of the gold produced by artisanal and small miners will
again be marketed through illegal channels.
24.   Gemstone Marketing: Colored gemstones have for some time been marketed by artisanal
and small-scale miners through monthly auctions held in the mining areas. As sometimes the miners
are unable to sell their product due to lack of demand by the official buyers, mineral dealers are
suspected to artificially reduce buying to influence the price. Low demand may however also be a
symptom of a limited market for average grade stones. In an effort to promote gemstone trade,
TAMIDA has started to arrange international gemstone auctions in Arusha on a semiannual basis.
Three auctions have ueen held since 1992. At the last international auction in 1993 a total of 54
foreign buyers attended.
25.   Diamonds mined by artisanal miners have traditionally been marketed through Tancut, a
parastatal diamond cutting company located in Iringa. Since Tancut discontinued to buy diamonds in
1992 due to a lack of funds, all diamonds from artisanal operations are currently marketed through
illicit channels. TAMIDA estimates that some 70 percent of the Tanzanites, 10 percent of the rubies
and 50 percent of other colored stones are still sold iI!egally. Principal reasons for the persistence of
a significant share of illicit trading are the traditional st. ong ties established by illegal buyers through
a mechanism of pre-financing the operations of small producers who lack adequate working capital
and higher prices paid in the black market, especially for gold.



- 49 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 10
F. Institutional Support
26.   Mineral Resources Department: The Government agency directly responsible for the
administration of the sub-sector Is the Mineral Resources Department (MRD) of the Ministry of
Water, Energy and Minerals. The MRD is headed by the Commissioner for Mineral Resources and
currently is composed of four divisions each under an Assistant Commissioner, including the Geology
Division, the Mines Division, the Research and Laboratory Division and the Mineral Trade Division.
The Mineral Trade Division is based in Dar es Salaam, while the other three divisions are located
in Dodoma. The bacic function of the Geology Division is the systematic geological mapping of the
country. The Mines Division is responsible for mining policy and legislation, licensing and mines
inspection. The Research and Laboratory Division primarily provides analytical and technological
services to the industry, while the Mineral Trade Division supervises mineral marketing and licenses
mineral dealers.
27.   Mines Division: Although all MRD divisions basically extend services to the industry, the
Mines Division has the closest relationship to the artisanal and small-scale mining sub-sector. For the
purpose of sector administration the MRD maintains a total of 8 zonal offices including one each in
Mwanza, Arusha, Shinyanga, Singida, Morogoro, Mpanda, Mbeya and Mtwara, plus 16 district
offices located in the high-density mining areas. Zonal offices typically have a staff of 10 to 12
persons, including the zonal officer, the mines inspector, two mining technicians, one office
supervisor, one accountant, two secretaries, one driver, two messengers and one watchman. District
offices have an average staff of four technicians.
28.   The principal task of the Mines Division is the administration of the Mining Act and related
regulations, particularly the maintenance of adequate safety standards in all mining operations. Lack
of transport vehicles and of funds for travel expenses has however largely paralyzed the system. In
addition, while there is an abundant number of geologists and geological technicians, there is a
shortage of mining engineers and metallurgists as well as related technicians - professionals required
most in the process of transformation of artisanal mining into formal small-scale mining. The total
nber of registered claims currently stands at approximately 2,800 or an average of 350 per zonal
office. If every claim is inspected on a quarterly basis, a minimum requirement under the
circumstances, a total of 1,400 inspection trips will have to be conducted by each of the zonal offices.
This clearly demonstrates the urgent need to significantly strengthen the zonal offices with transport
vehicles and adequate technical staff.
29.   Madini Institute: The Madini Institute established in 1982 in Dodoma for the purpose of
training technicians primarily for MWEM is offering a one-year course in mineral resources
technology. Course contents include geology and mineral exploration, mining technology, elements
of surveying, mineral processing and mining laws. In the past, an average of 20 technicians per year
have successfully completed the course with a Certificate in Mineral Resources Technology issued
by MWEM. The course essentially provides the technical background required for supervisory and
junior management fimctions in formal small-scale mines. Given the growing need of the industry
for qualified technical personnel, the Madini Institute will be instrumental in providing an increasing
number of mining technicians for the private sector. In addition, Madini Institute would be the
appropriate organizatl9n to conduct short courses on a countrywide scale, designed for artsanal
miners to obtain a Certified Miners Certificate. Such courses should be arranged in close cooperation
with the Regional Miners Associations.



- 50 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 10
30.   University of Dar es Salaam: The University of Dar es Salaam currently comprises seven
faculties and five institutes, some of which have been involved in research work related to the sub-
sector. As discussed, the Institute of Production Innovation (IPI) has developed an inexpensive
amalgam retort for local production and distribution to the artisanal gold miners. Scientists of the
Departnent of Sociology, Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, have recently completed research work
on social implications of artisanal gold mining in Tanzania. The expertise available at the University,
notably in the Department of Geology, the Faculty of Engineering, the Faculty of Commerce and
Management and the Institute of Production Innovation, should be utilized in the process of improving
the performance of the sub-sector. Particularly the Faculty of Commerce and Management could
contribute essentially by offering short courses in basic principles of management for small mine
operators. Mobilizing these resources will require the extensive interaction of TAMIDA, FEMATA
and REMAs with the University Consultancy Bureau recently established for the purpose of
intensifying cooperation with industry.
31.   Finandal Institutions: While existing local banks such as NBC and CRDB arc basically
interested in providing loans to small miners through their network of branch offices, little use has
been made by the sub-sector due to current loan conditions. NBC, for example, requires a collateral
of 125 % of the loan amount. Other institutions, including Tanzania Investment Bank (CIB) and
Tanzania Development and Finance Company Ltd. (TDFL) do not have the network of branch offices
in the mining areas and pardy also require collateral. A new credit facility in the process of being
established through BOT is the Promotion of Rural Initiatives and Development Enterprises (PRIDE).
This is an NGO specialized in providing small loans to the informal sector without traditional
collateral requirements. PRIDE expects to have 30 branch offices around the country within five
years and plans to set up training facilities for entrepreneurs in Arusha. In addition, the Mining
(Loans) Ordinance 1961 provides the legal framework for the establishment of a Board for the
granting of loans to holders of mining claims. The loan facility has, however, not been functioning
for many years due to a lack of funding.
G. Government Policy
32.   In recognition of the growing significance of artisanal mining as a source of employment and
income for a large number of the rural population, the Government made special provisions in the
Mining Act 1979 aimed at legalizing this activity. Under Part IV of the Act, Tanzanian citizens may
apply for claims in designated areas for the mining of minerals not involving substantial expenditure
or the use of specialist technology.
33.   To further promote sub-sector development, the Government in 1983 approved a Small-Scale
Mining Policy Paper with the specific objectives to: (i) allow the natural incentives of individual and
community benefit to attract venture-some, skilled and hard working people to the mining industry,
(ii) regulate the activities of prospecting and mining in the simplest and most effective manner; (iii)
formulate additional incentives and controls to encourage the legal production of those high value
minerals of most immediate benefit to the community, and (iv) ensure that, wherever possible,
cooperative groups are set up with technical, financial and management capability to meet the
requirements of the law and of productive mining. This policy was however not accompanied by
adequate fiscal incentives, notably access to foreign exchange. In addition, controls by the mining
authorities were insufficient due to capacity constraints and lack of resources. As a result, illegal



- 51 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 10
mining and mineral trade increased in the following years as artisanal miners spread to new areas
around the country.
34.    An important first step to redress this situation was made in 1988 with the liberalization of
mineral marketing through licensing qualified private companies and individuals as mineral dealers.
This policy together with the transition to a market-determined foreign exchange regime and the
permission given to traders and miners to retain 70 percent of the foreign exchange earned, has been
successful in legalizing a large part of the sub-sector activity.
35.   The new policy direction of the Government is to develop and produce the mineral resources
of the country in a partnership with the private sector for the mutual benefit of both parties. In this
context, a Mining Policy Document has recently been drafted with UNDP assistance which Is
currently under review by Government agencies. The document presents a number of short-, medium-
and long-term measures to bring artisanal mining under control and introduce an effective revenue
collection system. Strengthening the capabilities of MRD to efficiently provide technical assistance
to artisanal miners and to progressively increase control of sub-sector activities is a key element of
this policy proposal. Lessons learned in other countries with a large artisanal mining segment, such
as Ghana and Zimbabwe, should be incorporated in the process of final policy formulation.



- 52 -
Annex 4
Page 10 of 10
Table 5.0
Regional Miners Assodations
Name of Regional Miners Association                Size of Membership
1. Arsha Regional Miners Association (AREMA)                            700
2. Coast Regional Miners Association (COREMA)                             91
3. Dar es Salaam Regional Miners Association (CHAWADA)                   120
4. Dodoma Regional Miners Association (DOREMA)                           n.a.
5. Kilimanjaro Regional Miners Association (KIREMA)                      500
6. Lindi Regional Miners Association (LIREMA)                            n.a.
7. Mbeya Regional Miners Association (MBEREMA)                           600
8. Morogoro Regional Miners Association (MOREMA)                         550
9. Mtwara Regional Miners Association (MEMA)                             n.a.
10. Mwanza Regional Miners Association (MWAREMA)                         150
11. Rukwa Regional Miners Association (RUREMA)                          600
12. Shinyanga Regional Miners Association (SHIREMA)                      30
13. Singida Regional Miners Association (SIREMA)                         120
14. Tabora Regional Miners Association                                   45
15. Tanga Regional Miners Association (TAREMA)                          400
16. Ruvuma Regional Miners Association (RUVUREMA)                       400
n.a.: data not available.



- 53 -
Annex S
Page 1 of 17
TANZANIA
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
I. The Project in the Context of the Sectoral Goals and Objectives
1.    The primary objective of the project is to provide the Government of Tanzania (GOT) with
necessary technical, managerial and material support for the implementation of its new private sector-
oriented mining development strategy, as enunciated in GOT's Mining Sector Policy Framework
(MSPF), and thereby increase private investment in the development of the mineral sector. Under
the new policy, GOT intends to: (a) withdraw fully from the ownership of mineral producing and
"arketing ventures; (b) encourage the private sector to undertake the exploration for, development
and production of the country's mineral resources; and (c) redefine the role of the public sector which
would concentrate on efficient administration of mineral rights, regulatory framework, environmental
protection and tax collection.
2.    Specifically, the Government's long-term vision which has driven the process of formulating
the MSPF is the establishment by the year 2000 of a mineral sector which is:
*     modem and efficient in mineral exploration and exploitation, which
are financed and managed by the private sector,
*     operates under clearly-defined legal requirements with a minimum of
discretionary powers and in a competitive regulatory and fiscal
regimes,
*     serviced and regulated by a professional and effective public service,
and
*     operates with regard for the environment by minimizing the impact
of mining activities on environment and other resources.
3.    The basic policy directions and goals to be pursued under MSPF are:
*     the creation of an "enabling environment" for a strong private
investment in mineral exploration, prospecting, and production
through the overhauling of legal, regulatory and fiscal framework
governing private mining investment and mine operation,
*     the reduction of government's involvement in direct mineral
prospecting and production activities through the implementation of
the restructuring and divestiture of state-owned mining companies,



- 54 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 17
*     ensuring for the public sector a fair share of economic rents from
mining activities through rationalization of mineral tax regimes and
efficient tax administration,
*     the development of the small-scale artisanal mining activities
increasingly into formal and modem mining operation through the
introduction of appropriate technology, provision of geological and
technical services and access to information on sources of
technology, management and investment financing, whilst coping
with the environmental and social problems attendant to small-scale
mining,
*     the establishment of an environmentally sustainable development path
that the expanding mining industry can follow, and
*     the establishment of a highly professional, competent and effective
public mining sector institution to administer the sector and service
private investors and operators efficiently.
4.    The pro;ect, which would be implemented over a five-year period (1994-1999), has been
designed as a main vehicle for delivering necessary technical and institutional capacity for the
implementation of MSPF. The project would provide consultant services, training, equipment,
materials and operating costs required for the implementation of the following three major
components: (a) establishment of a legal, regulatory, fiscal and environmental framework; (b)
institutional strengthening of MRD; and (c) development of artisanal and small-scale mining.
Detailed descriptions of these project components are as follows:
H. Detailed Project Description
(A) Legal, Regulatory, Milscal and Environmental Framework
Duration:    Five years
Financing:    $1,200,000
5.    The main objective of the legal, regulatory, fiscal and environmental component is the
establishment of an enabling environment for the development of mining by the private sector in an
environmentally sustainable manner. The main focus will be to simplify the current complex and in
places contradicting, legislation so that potential investors, both local and foreign, are able to easily
identify the legal and fiscal regime as competitive and transparent. The reform on the regulatory
framework will aim at improving the mine safety and protecting the environment and the health of
mine workers.
6.    The project would provide about 40 man/months of consultancies to undertake three tasks:
(a) the revision of the legal and regulatory regime; (b) the modification and clarification of the fiscal
regime; and (c) the establishment of an environmental framework. For the purpose of simplifying
project implementation, this component would be implemented through two consultancy contracts:
one contract dealing with Sub-Components (a) and (b) above (i.e., the legal, regulatory, and fiscal



- 55 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 17
regimes) and the other contract dealing with Sub-Component (c) above (i.e., environmental
framework).
7.    The consultants on legal, regulatory and fiscal regimes would carry out the work in four
distinct phases: (a) review and analysis of all existing laws and regulations which impinge on mining
and mining investment (including the Mining Act, the Investment Promotion Act, income tax laws,
other mining-related statutes, ordinances, and notices). This review will take into account previous
UNDP-funded studies; (b) drafting of appropriate new or amended legislation and implementing
regulations. The opportunity will also be taken to reveiw the Model Mineral Investment Agreement
and to make an assessment of the necessity for such a document; (c) the preparation of detailed
operational manuals and guidelines for use by MRD staff, other government agencies and current and
future investors and operators; and (d) conducting appropriate training programs for MRD and other
government agency staff on new legal, regulatory and fiscal framework. The consultants' draft terms
of reference are set out in the Implementation Manual.
S.    The consultants on environmental framework will undertake the following tasks: (a) an
inventory and quantitative analysis of existing environmental liabilities (argely in conjunction with
the small-scale mining baseline survey - see para 20 below); (b) the preparation of appropriate
regulations setting out the required standards for the sector; (c) the designing of the institutional
procedures and arrangements to monitor and enforce the regulations; and (d) the preparation of a
detailed operational manual and training of a small core of MRD staff in environmental management
through specialized short courses and study tours. The consultants' draft terms of reference are
shown in the Implementation Manual.
9.    It is expected that both foreign and local consultants will participate in the implementation
of the Component. The involvement of the Attorney General's Chambers and IDA would be
necessary in the selection of the consultants. In order to ensure that GO'f itself fully participate in
the exercises early on, two to three GOT officials would be designated to work as a project team with
the consultants. The team will work in close consultation with other concerned Government
Ministries and agencies including the Attorney General's Chambers, the Planning Commission, the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resource and Environment, the Investment
Promotion Center and the Local Government Authorities.  Implementation to the stage of
recommended draft legislation should be completed within nine months of contract signing.
Following the preparation of draft legislation, the project team would organize technical workshops
and seminars with concerned Government Ministries and Agencies and other sector institutions with
a view to facilitating subsequent processing of the legislation and regulations in the Government. It
is expected that new or amended legal, regulatory and fiscal regimes will be put in place and a new
environmental framework established within 18 months of project startup.
10.   The baseline cost of this component is estimated at $1.2 million, composed of $905,000 for
consultancies (including $205,000 for advisory consultant assistance to negotiate mineral agreements),
$125,000 for training, $150,000 for vehicles and other equipment for environmental monitoring, and
$20,000 for printing of mining laws, regulations and other documents, as follows:



- 56 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 17
Cost of Legal, Regulatory and Envrionmental Component
(in US$)
Local Cost       Foriegn Cost         Total
Consultants               23,000           882,000            905,000
Training                  25,000            100,000           125,000
Equipment                                   150,000           150,000
Document Production       20,000      __20,000
Total             68,000           1,132,000          1,200,000
(B) Institutional Strengthening of MRD
Duration:    5 years
Financing:    $7.2 million
I1.   The objective of this project component is to build, over the project period, necessary trained
manpower and organizational capacity in the public sector to enable MRD to fulfill its regulatory,
monitoring and promotional roles. Emphasis will be put on the establishment and operationalization
of appropriate systems and procedures in key areas of MRD's responsibilities and the development
of skilled professional manpower.
12.   This objective will be achieved through the implementation of three Sub-Components as
follows: (a) Strengthening of MRD's Field Operation The Project will finance equipment, training
and operating costs and the construction of 20 field offices to enable the Mines Division and its field
offices to carry out the Priority Work Programs in three most urgent areas, i.e., effective mine safety
and environmental inspection, updating of mineral rights data and improved mineral rights registration
procedures, and increased mineral revenue collection; (b) Strengthening of MRD 's Geological Services
The Project would strengthen the capacity of MRD to publish geological maps and to undertake
mineral research and laboratory work; and (c) Strengthening of MRD 's Organizational Structure and
StoffTraining The Project would provide consultancies to assist MRD in implementing organizational
restructuring and redeployment of staff and in establishing a career development program. In
addition, the Project will provide funding for MRD to carry out staff training activities and to procure
transport, communication, data processsing and other office equipment essential to improving staff
productivity.
(a) Strengthening of MRD's Field Qperation.
13.    The short-term objective is restore the capacity of the MRD's Mines Division to carry out
its basic responsibilities through Priority Work Programs focussing on three most urgent areas - mine
safety and environmental inspection, mineral rights registration, and mineral revenue collection -
within the existing mining laws and regulations. The medium-term objective is to build necessary
field experience, technical and mangerial skills, and operating systems and procedures to enable the



- 57 -
Annex S
Page 5 of 17
Mines Division to carry out these functions efficiently under the new mining laws and regulations.
The Priority Work Programs would be prepared on a rolling two-year basis starting from July 1,
1994. The performance targets set under the Priority Work Programs for FY95/FY96 period would
include quarterly safety, health and environmental inspection of all active mining operations of a
defined size, updating and reconciling all mineral rights and claims records, and collection of
outstanding fees, rents and royalty arrears by June 30, 1996. For the execution of the Priority Work
Programs, the Project would provide financing for the procurement of: (a) vehicles and motorcycles;
(b) field and office equipment including communication gear and computers; (c) mercury retorts for
field demonstration purposes; (d) consulting services for the detailed design of the Programs, for field
staff training workshops and for Program monitoring; (e) construction of 20 field office buildings;
and (f) incremental operating costs including vehicle operation and maintenance and field per diems
for inspectors, financed under the Credit on a sliding scale (i.e., 100 percent in Year 1 reducing to
20 percent in Year 5). The consultants' draft terms of reference are set out in the Implementation
Manual.
Costs of Strengthening Field Operation
oin US$)
.._____________________   ;Local Cost         Foreign Cost        Total
Vehicles                        50,000         490,000           540,000
Field and Office Equipment      80,000         187,000           267,000
Training Workshops              48,000           -                48,000
Operating Costs               1,120,000         -               1,120,000
Consultancies                   105,000         -                105,000
Office Construction            300,000         300,000           600,000
Total              1,403,000        677,000         2,680,000
ffi Strengthening of MRD's Geological Services
14.   The objective of this Sub-Component is to make available to prospective investors, both local
and foreign, ready access to basic geological data and other information required for an investment
decision. To achieve the objective, the Project would finance the following: (a) provision of
equipment and supplies to the Geology and Mineral Laboratory Divisions; (b) provision of equipment
and supplies to the Cartographic Unit; (c) provision of technical experts and training; (d)
mainenance of the data base unit of MRD; and (d) dissemination of sector data to investors, as
follows:
Geologil MM The process will involve a detailed review of the current status of the draft
maps for the prioritized areas followed by the preparation of the maps to print-ready status.
It is anticipated that for some sheets it may be necessary to carry out ground checks of the
old geological data to resolve anomalies and inconsistencies which are likely to be identified
both within and between sheets in the editing process.



- 58 -
Annex S
Page 6 of 17
Mlineral Laboratory A limited rehabilitation of the MRD laboratory in Dodoma will be
undertaken. Following the rehabilitation, the laboratory will be able to carry out basic
mineral analyses for the benefit of the public sector and local investors on a cost recovery
basis. Limited amounts of new equipment will be purchased; some refurbishment of existing
equipment will take place; and spare parts and consumable provided. Appropriate training
programs will be completed and procedural manuals prepared.
Data Base Uni The project will enable the Mineral Data Base project, currently supported
with UNDP funding, to operate beyond end-1994 when it no longer has access to external
funding. The project will ensure the availability of the necessary specialist assistance when
needed and will provide supplies to the unit so that the database would service mineral
investors and concerned public sector institutions.
15.   The baseline costs of this Sub-Component are estimated at US$ 3,553,000 (excluding taxes
and duties) with a foreign exchange component of US$ 3,193,000 and a local component of
US$360,000. Estimated costs of the individual sub-components are shown in the table below.
Costs of Strengthening Geological Services
(in US$)
________________________  Local Cost  Foreign Cost         Total
Consultants                    360,000           1,500,000         1,860,000
Training                                          408,000           408,000
Map Printing                                      200,000           200,000
Equipment and Supplies
(i) Geology and Mineral                          485,000            485,000
Laboratory
(ii) Cartographic Unit                           600,000           600,000
Total                360,000          3,193,000         3,553,000
16.   The Geological Maps and Mineral Laboratory Rehabilitation would be implemented by MRD
with the assistance of specialist services to be provided under a twinning arrangement with a reputable
foreign geological survey organization. The MRD counterparts would be designated early in the
implementation process and would join personnel from the selected foreign geological survey
organization in the execution of the project work. The specialist services would assist with field
checking and cartography prior to map printing. Similarly, following the identification of the needs
of the laboratory, MRD staff would be provided with specialist assistance under the twinning contract
to procure equipment, parts and materials and to set up procedures for operating the laboratory. The
terms of the twinning contract would also include providing training (both local and foreign) to MRD
staff in geological survey, cartography and mineral research and anlysis.



- 59 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 17
(c) Strengthening of MRD's Organizational Structure and Staff Training
17.   The objective of this Sub-Component is to provide MRD with an organizational structure,
professional manpower base and logistical capacity in line with its new role as the principal sector
administrator and the promoter of the private sector-oriented mining development strategy. The
implementation of this Sub-Component will be based on the recommendations of a consultant study
(Strengthening of the Mineral Resources Department, January 1994), financed under a PPF advance
(818-0 TA), which has carried out an analysis of MRD's organizational, staffing and equipment
requirements. To achieve the institution building objective, the Project would finance: (a) consultant
services for the implementation of the restructuring of MRD; (b) staff training, manpower and career
development programs; and (c) improvement of MRD's basic equipment and logistical capability, as
follows:
The Restructuring of MRD. The restructuring would focus on the main recommendations
of the consultant study as aforementioned and would include (i) streamlining the mineral
licensing procedures with the Office of the Commissioner, Mineral Resources playing a
centralized and coordinating role; (ii) restructuring the functions of the Geology Division
away from detailed mineral evaluation which should in future be performed by private
investors, with the Geology Division concentrating its efforts on providing basic geological
information and maps to in;estors, systematically compiling geological information and
reports produced by private companies for investment promotion and monitoring of
prospecting activities by companies; and (ii;) creating two new Sections under the Mines
Division, i.e., Environment Section and Extension Services Section. To implement the
restructuring, the Project would finance consulting services to prepare detailed terms of
reference, operating procedures and job descriptions.
Professional Manpower Development and Staff Training. The Project would finance the
following manpower development and staff training activities of MRD: (i) retraining of a
limited number of geologists to acquire mine engineering skills and upgrading the skills of
a limited number of mine engineers through 6-12 months courses or attachment to appropriate
foreign mining institutions or mining companies; (ii) refresher training of mining technicians
to upgrade their skills level through local training workshops, organized and run by qualified
local consultants or training institutes; (iii) specialized subject-matter training in such areas
as environmental management, gemology and gemstone marketing, organizational and
technology aspects of artisanal and small-scale mining, and computer skills for selected MRD
staff who presently need such skills for the efficient performance of their duties, through
study tours or short courses in appropriate foreign institutions and companies; ane (iv)
management level training in policy, institutional and legal aspects of mineral sector
administration and in international investment and trade climate for senior management staff
of MRD through study tours and attendance at relevant international seminars and workshops.
The implementation of all the training schemes would be based on the skills requirements
identified through the individual career development plans.
Skills Assessment and Career Development Programs. The Project would finance consulting
services to formulate career development programs for major carrer streams and skil! groups
(geology, mine engineering and inspection, mineral titles administration, etc.) in MRD on
the basis of thorough assessment of staffs qualifications and skill levels, organization's



- 60 -
Annex 5
Page 8 of 17
manpower requirements and individual preferences. The individual career development plans
would serve as a basis for implementing the training programs as aforementioned.
Equipment Ed Facilities. The Project would finance the procurement of most essential field
and office equipment and tools including vehicles, communication gear and computers
necessary to enhance the productivity of MRD officials including the Office of the
Commissioner, Mineral Resources, and the Divisions of Geology, Research and Laboratory,
and Mineral Trade. The equipment requirements of the Mines Division and its field offices
would be addressed under the first Sub-Component (Strengthening of MRD's Field
Operation).
18.   The draft terms of reference of the consultants to assist MRD in the implementation of the
above Sub-Components are contained in the Implementation Manual.
Costs of Strengthening Organizational Structure and Staff Training
(in US$)
|___ _  Local Cost    Foreign Cost         Total
Staff Training            50,000            400,000           450,000
Equipment                 14,000            448,000           462,000
Consultancies             84,000             30,000           114,000
Total             148,000           878,000          1,026,000
(C) Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining Component
Duration:    5 years
Financing:    $2.1 million
19.   The objective of the artisanal and small-scale mining support component of the project is to
improve the economic, social and environmental performance of the artisanal and small-scale mining
sub-sector in the context of the overarching sectoral goal of encouraging and expanding private
investment in mining. Thus the ultimate objective is to foster the gradual transformation of informal
artisanal mining into formal, organized and efficient operations, capable of further self-sustainable
evolution. The Component represents an initial step towards realizing this goal and would attempt
to undertake most urgent and essential tasks of mitigating the negative effects of present artisanal
mining methods on environment, mine safety and miners' health, while improving the productivity.
The project would finance: (a) baseline survey; (O) informton and demonstration of appropriate
technologies; and (c) training and capacity building support, as follows:



- 61 -
Annex 5
Page 9 of 17
(a) The Baseline Survey
20.    The purpose of the baseline survey is to provide reliable quantitative information on the
current position and performance of the artisanal and small-scale mining activities as a basis for the
detailed design of regulatory and promotional initiatives and support programs. The survey will
encompass relevant economic, social, organizational, technical, marketing, environmental, health and
safety as well as institutional aspects. The Project would finance consultancies to assist MRD in
undertaking the survey, analyzing the results and formulating strategies.
(b) Technology Information and Demonstration
21.   This Sub-Component is designed as a pilot program to promote artisanal miners' awareness
of simple and environmentally sensitive mining and mineral processing techniques and equipment
through dissemination of relevant information and technology demonstration, with the objective of
enhancing productivity and product recovery of artisanal operations. The Project would finance the
following activities:
Technology Information Dissemination. The Project activities would include: (i) identification
of local and foreign suppliers of appropriate mining and processing equipment, (ii) providing
of indicative information to selected equipment suppliers to create awareness of potential
demand for mining and processing equipment, (iii) preparation and circulation of suppliers
guide through national and regional miners associations, and (iv) holding annual technology
and equipment fairs aimed at acquainting artisanal and small-scale miners with appropriate
mining and processing techniques and equipment in major mining districts;
Technology Demonstration. The Project activities would include (i) procurement of a total
of 8 equipment packages to be used by qualifying Regional Miners Associations for
demonstration to their members; (ii) initial training of selected demonstrators in equipment
operation, maintenance and costs.
(cl Training and Capacity Building
22.   The objective of this Sub-Component is to establish permanent training capabilities through
the Regional Miners Associations to promote the self-sustainable evolution of efficient and
environmentally responsible formal small-scale mining activities in the country. The Sub-Component
will provide funding to strengthen small miners and mineral traders associations, and to build training
capabilities essentially by training trainers and mobilizing qualified training organizations in the areas
outlined below.
Study Tours: The Project would finance study tours for MRD officials and representatives
of the miners associations to African countries with substantial small-scale mining sector (e.g.
Ghana, Zimbabwe).
Miners Organizations: The Project would finance: (i) a consultant study to strengthen the
legal, administrative, and financial aspects of existing miners associations on a regional and
national level, i.e., the Tanzania Chamber of Mines, the Regional Miners Associations
(REMAs), the Federation of Miners Association of Tanzania (FEMATA), and the Tanzania



- 62 -
Annex 5
Page 10 of 17
Mineral Dealers Association (TAMIDA), (ii) teambuilding and training workshops at the
regional and national levels on implementing the recommendations.
Lapidery Development and Gemstone Marketing: The Project would provide funds for: (i)
the establishment of a skills training and technical extension program for the development of
the lapidery industry; (ii) library on gemology and colored gemstones marketing, (iii)
installation of a small gemological laboratory with basic equipment for identification, grading
and valuation of colored gemstones, and (iv) conducting short courses on economic
gemology, colored stone valuation, enhancement techniques and marketing.
Miners Certificate Courses: The Project would finance: (i) the design of short courses to be
conducted by the Regional Miners Associations (REMAs), aimed at providing the knowledge
required to obtain a Competent Miners Certificate, including training manuals and a code of
practice in simple terms in Kiswahii for application by Certified Miners; (ii) the training of
qualified members of REMAs to become trainers for such short courses, and (iii) the
establishment of training facilities at major REMAs and the provision of a part of recurrent
operating expenses on a cost-sharing basis.
Business 7raining: The Project would provide funds for: (i) the design of training program
for short courses, to be conducted by major REMAs, in basic principles of business
administration for small mine operators (book-keeping, budgeting, cost control, product
marketing, financing), (ii) the identification of local training organizations and NGOs quali-
fled for the execution of such courses, (iii) the provision of a part of recurrent operating
expenses on a cost-sharing basis.
23.   The total costs of the small-scale mining component as outlined above are estimated at
US$2.1 million (excluding taxes and duties and contingencies) with a foreign exchange component
of about US$1.2 million (57 percent) and local costs amounting to US$0.9 million (43 percent), as
f)llows:
Costs of Small-Scale Mining Component
(in US$)
Local Cost     Foreign Costs          Total
Consultancies               455,000           310,000            765,000
Training                    200,000           135,000            335,000
Equipment/Tools             200,000           850,000           1,050,000
Total              855,000          1,295,000         2,150,000
24.   The artisanal and small-scale mining component would be implemented by MRD through an
Artisanal and Small-scale Mining Office (SSMO) to be established within MRD. The Office would
be a unit of MRD, which would provide an institudonal home for all GOT's support activities fbr
the development of the artisanal and small-scale mining sector. The Office would be responsible for



- 63 -
Annex 5
Page II of 17
planning, research, supervision and monitoring activities for the development of the artisanal and
small-scale sector, while entrusting non-governmental entities (miners associations, universities,
training institutes, private sector firms and consultants, NGOs, etc.) with the task of executing
projects and programs in the sector. The Office would be staffed with a Program Director and
support staff. To ensure a proper coordination within MRD and with other Ministries and Agencies,
a special task force and a Steering Committee would be established in accordance with the terms of
reference set out in the Implementation Manual. To assist MRD in implementing the Component,
a qualified single local consulting firm or consortium of consulting firms/organizations would be
contracted. The consultants' terms of reference are set out in the Implementation Manual.
25.   Main participating groups in project implementation will be the national and regional miners
organizations. REMAs would be responsible for organizing and running technology demonstration
and training of artisanal and small-scale miners in their respective regions. Local and regional
manufacturers of appropriate mining and processing equipment as well as local and regional training
institutions including universities would be encouraged to participate in the Project Component as
suppliers of equipment and training services, respectively.
(D) Project Management and Evaluation Component
26.   The Project would be implemented by MRD through its operating Divisions. The Office of
the Commissioner of Mineral Resources would be responsible for overseeing and coordinating project
implementation activities and for dealing with accounting, procurement and disbursement matters.
To assist the Commissioner of Mineral Resources in carrying out these responsibilities, four positions
(a Project Manager, a Deputy Project Manager, Technical Assistant and an Accountant) would be
established in the Office of the Commissioner and be filled by qualified and experienced Tanzanians
on a fixed-term basis. The Project would provide funding to cover personnel, office space, a vehicle,
office furniture and equipment, operating costs for the duration of the Project, and project evaluation
consultancy, as shown in the following table:
Cost of Project Management ard Evaluation
(in US$)
Local Cost       Foreign Cost         Total
Office Accommodation        90,000               -              90.000
Equipment & Furniture         -               50,000            50,000
Staff Cost                 510,000               -             510,000
Operating Cost             300,000               -             300,000
Evaluation Consultant          -              60,000            60,000
Total              900,000           110,000          1,010,000
27.   The details of the project administration and implementation procedures are further elaborated
in Annex 6, Project Administration and Implementation.



- 64 -
Annex 5
Page 12 of 17
Table 5.0
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan by Component
(In US$ Thousands)
Costs         Financed  by        Total
PROJECT COMPONENT                           l  Foreip       GOT  | IDA        Costs
LEGAL, RGULATORY, FISCAL AND
2NVIRONMENT FRAMEWORK
Consultants                              23       882         23.    82         0..
Training                                                              005
Equipment                                         i5O                  1So .   St)
Document Production                    ..o          -         20    -           2:
Sub-Total                          - 68    I1,132.          68; . ..     ...
g.~~~~~......... . 
tw~~ ~ tow>v                                               .'2 ,l0-0 2t.w
SMALLSCALBMbnNO                     .~$4             .9
Consultants                              495     1310         29    2702      2,795
Bpm~~i.........                     144-   2,21`1        3       35       ,5
1~mezitlperatwgCosts         1120         -46.0    O6 .               2
CivilWo... 3..                                     300                40.        0
SMALL-SCALEMINING
Consultants                             455       310         27     738       765
Tnrning                                  200      135         33      302       335
Equipment and Materials                 200       850         50    1,000     1,050
Sub-Total                              855     1,295       110   2,040      2,150
PROJECr MANAGEMFNT
Office Accommodavon                      90         -          -      90        90
Equipment                                          50          -      50        50
Staff Cost                              510                  210     300       510
Operating Cost                          300         -        120      180      300
Consultants                                ,       60          -      60        60
Sub-Total                              900      110        330     680      1,010
BASELINE COST                           4,034     7,586      1,323   10,297    11,620
CONTINGENCIES                             806     1,474        77   2,203      2,280
;0 0; 9  0          :1*.0  : 4    :. ..-0i.   
GRAND TOTAL                 4,840    s,o60j      ,400 j  2



- 65 -
Annex 5
Page 13 of 17
Attachment 3
Table 5.1
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ Thousands)
Pre-                Project Year                Total
Project Element             Project    1      2      3       4       5    Payments
1. Consultancies              250     800   1000   1000    700    640         4390
3. Contractual Services                       70      70      70      60      270
(map printing, etc)
4. Goods
* Office Equipment                 300    200    200                       700
* Technical Equipment              200    740    800      800    210      2750
e Vehicles                         100    400    500      100             1100
5. Opeating Costs                     490    470    470    470    470         2370
6. Civil Works             _                  180    180     180     180      720
6. Tianng & Educ.                      320    320    320    320    320        1600
Materials
Totals          12501221013380 [35401264011880113900
IDA-Financed Amount        250     2000 |_3040_[ 3180 |_2300_| 1730 |_12500
Indudes contingency allowances.



Tabte 5.2
Detatled Costing of
Legalt Regulatory, Fiscal and Envirroten*tl Caqpxment
(in US$ Thousands)
A.      Legal/Fiscal
Manmonths      Rate    Fees       Subsistence      Round Trips    TotaL   Local Costs   Equipment   Training
4/ tr-                (Workshops)                 Expenses
1. Review  existing legal                   2            30       60           6                1            4
framework
2. Draft New Act                             2     _     30       60           6                 1           4      _
3. Draft Regulations                         4           15       60           12                2           8
4.  Workshop on Drafts                      0.5          30       15           .5                1           4           5 
_____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ____0.5           15      7.5           .5                                  __ _ _  __ _%__                  _ _ _
5.  Finalize Act/Regs.                       1           30      315            3                1           4
1           15       15           3                                    _ _  _ _ _ __                  _ _ _ _
6.  Review fiscal                            2           15       30            6                1           4
7.  Prepare Proposals                        I           i5       15            3                1           4
8.  Workshop                                0.5          15       7.5          1.5               1           4           5
9. Revise drafts                             1           15       15            3                1           4
10. Training CTanzania)                      1           30       30           3                 1           4                                      5
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _1  1515     3                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ __                _  _ _ _
11. Training (Overseas)                                                                          1           4                                      50
17.5                  360          50.5             15           60          10                         55
TOTAL USS535,000            > >
X
I-.(
4.-L71
0



E.       Environmental Component
Manmonths    Rate    Fees       Subsistence       Round Trips    TotaL        LocaL Costs     Equipment   Training
-          -                             S4/trp                  (Workshops)                    Expenses
1.  8aseline  Assessment           1          15       15            3
(excl. small scaLe          6 (loc)       3        18            5__
2.  Legislation review             2          15       30            6                 1             4
3.  Prepare sector regs.            2         15       30            6                               -
4.  Workshop                      0.5         15       7.5           1.5                1            4             5
5.  Finalize regs.                  1         15       15            3                 1             4
6.  Prepare manuals                 1         15       15            3
7.  Training (Tanzania)             1         15       15            3                  1            4                                         5                 l
8.  Training (Overseas)             1         15       15            3       _                                                                 50c
9.  Specify/procure                 1         15        15           3                                                           150
Equip.                         1          3         3            -
17.5               190.5         36.5                             16            10             150           55
TOTAL USS458,000
>
0D (D
i.n Ln
0



Table 5.3
Field   d Tedhnical Eqyipent for Strengthenin  Field Operation
___________________________________________    Uhit Cost (S)      QuGstity          Total Cost CS)
Field Gear
1. Geological Compass                                          200              8                      1,600
2. Survey Compass                                              200              25                     5,000
3.  GeoLogical Hammer                                           20              25                       500
4. Magnifying Lens                                              16              25                       400
5.  GPS                                                       3000              8                    24,000
Survey Equip ent                                                                                     64,000
5. Distance Meter                                            8,000               8                     2,304
6.  Reflecting Lamps                                           288               8                       .40
7. Ranging Poles                                                20              32                     9,984
8.  Levelling Instrument                                     1,248               8                       500
9.  Measuring Tapes                                             20              25                     1,600
10. Surveyors UmbrelLa                                         200              8
Ceping Equipment                                                                                      1 0
14,400
11. Tents                                                      300              48                       800
12. Mosquito Nets                                               10              80                    4,000
13. Camp Beds                                                   S0              80                    2,000
14. Camp Chairs                                                 25              80                    4,000
15. Field Overalls                                              50              80                    4,800
16. FieLd Boots                                                 60              80
Drawing Eqldpuent                                                                                        750
17. Parallel Ruler                                              30              25                     6,400
18. Drawing Tables                                             200              32                     2,400
19. Drawing Instruments                                        100              24                        30
20. Scale Enlarging Set                                         30               1                        50
21. Set Squares                                                  2              25                        50
22. Protractors                                                  2              25
Engineering Equip ent
26,000
23. Blsasting/Detonating Set                                 3,000               8                    2600
and consumables                                                                                   24.000
24. Mercury Retorts                                            100              240                                                 D C
Totat                                            ____1 0_
0



Table 5.4
Vehicles and Office Equifpmnt
tinit Cost (S)       Quan'tity       Total Cost (S)           Deptoyment
Mines Division &
Field Offices
1. Vehicles
4-WD VehicLes                                25,000             10                  250,000   MHOnZO
D-C Pickups                                  15,000             16                  240,000   DO
Motorcycles                                   5,000             10                   50,000   DO
2. PC, UPS, Software                             10,000             2                   20,000  MHQ
3. Typewriters                                     300             26                    7,800   Z0/DO/MHQ
4. Photocopiers                                  3,600              9                   32,400   MHQVZO
5. Filing Cabinets                                 300             26                    7,800   MHQ/ZOtDO
6. Office Furniture                                 500            26                    13,000   MHQ/ZO/DO
7. Airconditioners                                 500             10                    5,000   MHQIZO
8. Miscellaneous                                                                          5,000
Sut-Total                                                                           631.000
Other DIvislion *
Units of M
1. 4-WD Vehicles                                25,000             4                   100,000   CMR/GD/RLIMT
2. Telecommunication                                                                   242,000   MRD-wide
S. PC, UPS, Software                             10,000            4                    40,000   CMR/GD/RL/MT
4. Typewriters                                      500             8                    4,000   CMR/GD/RL/MT
5. Photocopiers                                  3,600             3                    11,000   CMR/GD/RLIMT
6. Gemology Sets                                20,000              2                   40,000   MT
7. JournaLs & Books                                                                     15,000   MRD-wide
8. Filing Cabinets                                                                       10,000   MRD-wide
Sus-TotaL                                                                           462.000
Total                                                                1,093,000
LEGEND MHQ Ib'lir H.dquarteml, ZO IZonel Office). DO IDtdat Offloel,
CMR ECom aaInr. Mindru R.ourol), GD (Geology Dlvhonl.
RL (merch and Labortory Smwvlo DOvaloni, MT (Mnerl Trad Dvianl                                                                              >D
0
X-l
I-



Annex 6
-70 -                              Page 1 of 9
TANZANIA
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Administration and Implementation
(A) Project Inplementation and Management Structure
1.    The United Republic of Tanzania would be the Borrower (represented by the Ministry of
Finance) and the project executing agency would be the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
(MWEM). The Mineral Resources Department (MRD) of MWEM would have the day-to-eay
responsibility for implementing the Project Components and monitoring their progress. The
Commissioner, Mineral Resources would be responsible for (i) administering project funding and
procurement processing (including the employment of consultants) and managing the Project Accounts
and the Special Account; (ii) overseeing project implementation activities by various line Divisions
of MRD and coordinating project activities with other Ministries, Agencies and institutions, where
needed; (iii) following up on the agreed conditionalities and financial provisions and proposing any
necessary adjustments and amendments to implementation; (iv) providing periodic project progress
reports; and (v) acting as the focal point of contacts between the Government of Tanzania and IDA
during the project implementation period.
2.    To assist the Commissioner, Mineral Resources in carrying out the above responsbilities,
three professional positions would be established in the Office of the Commissioner, Mineral
Resources, consisting of a Project Manager, a Technical Officer and an Accountant. The Project
Manager would report to the Commissioner, Mineral Resources.
(B) Project hnplementation Activities and Timetables
3.    MRD would organize a project launch workshop within one month of signing the Credit.
Details of main project implementation steps and their timing are set out in Table 6.0, Project
Implementation Activities and Timing.
(C) Procurement Rules and Procedures
4.    Procurement of goods would include vehicles, computer and computer software,
telecommunication system, office furniture and equipment, and specialized equipment, instruments
and tools. Contracts for goods and the printing of geological maps would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding, in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. Standard Bidding
Document would be adopted for ICB.
5.    Items or groups of items for goods which cannot be packaged in contracts larger than $50,000
would be purchased through prudent shopping procedures satisfactory to IDA, on the basis of the
comparison of quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. The total value of goods to be
procured under prudent shopping procedures would not exceed an aggregate amount of $500,000.
6.    Civil works for the construction of MRD's field office blocks would be procured on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertized locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. As



-71 -                                 Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
the total estimated amount of civil works is small (ess than $1.0 million) and office blocks are
scattered throughout the country, the civil work is not likely to attract international contractors.
7.    Consultants and experts for technical assistance and training would be selected and employed
by the Government of Tanzania in accordance with the 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers...' (August 1981). Table 6.1 summarizes procurement arrangements for
consulting services, estimated man-months and the methods of procurement.
8.    IDA Review of Procurement Decisions All procurement documentation and decisions for
contracts expected to cost $100,000 or more would be subject to prior review by IDA. The proposed
review procedures would result in a prior review by IDA of over 50 percent of the total number of
contracts under the project, which is satisfactory. The procurement arrangements to be applied under
the project are summarized in Schedule B.
(D) Disbursement
9.    The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over a five year period against the following
categories: (i) 70 percent of civil works expenditures totalling $0.59 million; (ii) 100 percent of
foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures for vehicles, equipment, furniture, tools and materials,
totalling $3.57 million; (iii) 100 percent of foreign and 90 percent of local expenditures for
consultants' services and training, totalling $4.65 million; (iv) 60 percent of incremental operating
costs totalling $1.39 million; (v) recovery of outstanding Project Preparation Facility advance up to
$250,000; and (vi) an unallocated amount of $2.05 million. The disbursement schedule and the
projected disbursement profile are set out in Schedule B.
(E) Accounts and Audits
10.   MRD would maintain accounts and process payments for all project expenditdures. MRD
would establish a Project Account and deposit GOT's quarterly contributions in advance of the
quarter. An initial quarterly deposit of $65,000 would be a condition of effectiveness. On behalf
of the project, the Bank of Tanzania would open a Special Account with a commercial bank
satisfactory to IDA, to which an authorized allocation of up to $1,000,000 (corresponding to IDA's
financing requirement for the first quarter) would be deposited upon credit effectiveness.
11.   The Special Accounts would be replenished on the basis of monthly withdrawal requests
covering aggregated monthly expenditures. Payments of less than $50,000 and for contracts which
do not require IDA's prior review, for local training expenses and operating expenses would be
documented through Statement of Expenditures (SOE), with the underlying documentation available
for inspection by IDA supervision missions.
12.   The Project Account, the Special Account, the Statements of Expenditures, and direct
withdrawals on IDA's Credit account would be audited annually, by independent auditors satisfactory
to IDA. The audit reports would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of
Government's fiscal year.
(F) Progress Reports
13.   MRD would prepare and submit to IDA quarterly progress reports covering all project
aspects, summarizing progress (both physical and financial) achieved, difficulties encountered and



- 72  -                               Annex 6
Page 3 of 9
changes and adjustments to be made. The progress reports would be prepared by the Project
Manager and submitted to the Commissioner, Mineral Resources for forwarding to IDA.
(G) Mid-Term Review
14.   A Mid-Term Project Review would be held within two years of Credit Effectiveness but not
later than September 30, 1996 on the basis of detailed analysis of implementation progress, carried
out by MRD with assistance of a project evaluation consultant. Table 6.1 sets out main items for
review at the Mid-Term Review and agencies participating in the Review.



Annex 6
73                                 Page 4 of 9
Table 6.0
Project Implementation Activities and Timing
I Projet Component         Expected Actions/Results    Timing Targets       Responsible Agency
MINING SECTOR            Draft a MSPF based on
POLICY                   Mining Sector Policy       February 1994         MWEM
Study                    |                       Planning Commission
Draft an Environmental                           MWEM
Action Plan                March 1994            MTNRE
Approve and issue MSPF    April 1994             MWEM/Planning
Commission
Finalize action plans for                        MWEM
MSPF implementation        May 1994
Issue public information                         MWEM
documents on MSPF          July 1994
LEGALJREGULATOR    Appoint consultants -
Y/AND                    legal/regulatory/fiscal and    July 1994         MWEM
ENVIRONMENTAL            environment - and
counterparts                                   l
Review Mining Act,
Ordinances, Model                                consultants
Concession Agreements     July to October 1994   MWEM
and other statutes, rules                       AGC
and regulations
Liaise with NTNRE on                             consultants
environmental regulations,   continuous          MWEM
standards, procedures and                        MTNRE
monitoring aspects
Prepare new or amended                           consultants
legislation, regulations and   October to December  MWEM
procedures                 1994                  AGC
Approve legislation and
publish new/amended        June 1995             MWEM
Mining Act, ordinances                          AGC
and regulations                                      _  _



74 -                                 Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
Prepare and issue
Operational Manual with    June 1995            consultants
operational procedures and                      MWEM
_  guidelines                l
Train MRD and other
officials on new          June 1995 and         consultants
legal/regulatory framework  continuous          MRD
Prepare and issue public
information documents,    July 1995             consultants
publish streamlined                             MRD
application forms, etc.
FISCAL                  Review existing fiscal
policy and all statutes,  July to September     consultants
regulations, rules and     1994                 MWEM
procedures affecting the                        MOF
finance of mining activities                    AGC
Prepare amendments to
fiscal statutes, rules,   October to December  consultants
regulations and procedures   1994               MWEM
and reflect the changes in                      MOF
mining legislation                              AGC
Approve and issue the
above, an Operational                           MOF
Manual and Guidelines and  June 1995            AGC
public information                              MWEM
documents
Train MOF and MRD staff
on new fiscal framework,   June 1995 and        MOF
and procedures            continuous            MWEM
INSITUTIONAL            Appoint consultants and
STRENGTHENING           Prepare Priority Work      March 1994            MWEM
Program                  _
Prepare detailed                                consultants
specifications and bidding    March to June 1994    MWEM
documents for equipment                         MRD
Procure equipment         July to December
l _____________________    1994                  MW EM
Start implementation of
(a) Priority Work       Priority Work Program,     July 1994 and         MWEM/MRD
Program            beginning with training    continuous
workshops of field
_  personnel                                    l



Annex 6
- 75 ~                          Page 6 of 9
Review progress annually                        consultants
and at MTR                July 1995 and         MWEM/MRD
continuous           IDA
(b) Restructuring       Start implementation of                          MWEM/MRD
MRD restructuring and     July 1994 and         consultants
review progress annually    continuous          IDA
and at MTR
(c) Staff Training      Undertake skills                                 consultants
assessment, formulate     July to De=ember      MWEM/MRD
career development plans    1994
Undertake staff training                        consultants
activities                January 1995 and      MWEM/MRD
continuous
Review progress and                             MWEM/MRD
effectiveness of training  July 1996            IDA
activities at MTR
(d) Geological Mapping   Appoint consultants and
& Laboratory          counterparts for the
detailed design of        December 1994         MWEM/MRD
geological mapping and
laboratory rehabilitation
Prepare specifications and                      consultants
bidding documents for     March 1995            MWEM/MRD
equipment and materials
Establish criteria, terms  July 1995            MRD
and procedures of access
Train MRD staff in the
operation and maintenance   January 1996 and    consultants
of mapping and laboratory   continuous          MRD
units
Conduct public            September 1995        Task Force
information campaign                            MRD
SMALL-SCALE             Establish SSMO and         Janury 1995           MWEM
MINING                  appoint Program Director                         MRD
(a) Organization        Establish Special Task     January 1995          MRD
Force and Program
Steering Committee
Appoint consultants       March 1995            MRD/SSMO



- 76 -                                 Annex 6
Page 7 of 9
(b) Bas'line Survey     Conduct study tours and   March to August      Consultants
baseline survey           1995                 MRD/SSMO
Prepare development       September 1995       Consultants
strategy and action plan  ._._._ _.   MRD/SSMO
(c) Technology          Carry out technology      August 1995 and      Consultants
Information         information dissemination    continuous        MRD/SSMO
REMAs
Conduct equipment fairs   October 1995 and     Consultants
continuous           MRD/SSMO
REMAs
(d) Technology          Procure equipment and     October 1995 to      Consultants
Demonstration      distribute to REMAs       March 1996            MRD/SSMO
(e) Support to REMA     Conduct study on REMAs   March to June 1995    Consultants
and TAMIDA          and workshops with                             MRD/SSMO
REMAs                                          REMAs
Set up gemological library   August 1995       Consultants
and laboratory                                 MRD/SSMO
TAMIDA
(f) Training            Design training programs    August 1995 and    Consultants
and conduct short courses   continuous         MRD/SSMO
(Competent Miners                              REMAs
Certificates and Business
Practices)
(g) Monitoring and      Evaluate progress and     January 1995 and     MWEM
Evaluation         results semi-annually,    continuous           MRD/SSMO
cross-fertilize all
parcticipants and provide
feedbacks



Table 6.1
PROCUREMENT OF CONSULTING SERVICES
All Project Components
Man-                        Procurement Methods                        Budget
Months                                                                (US$000's)
LEGAL/REGULATORYtFISCAL AND
ENVERONMENTAL COMPONENT
1. Legal and Fiscal                      22.5    internationally advertized, selection based on competitive evaluation  663
2. Environmental                          17.5    internationally advertized, selection based on competitive evaluation  243
INSI1VUIIONAL STRENGTHENING
COMPONENT
1. Priority Work Programs                 35      locally advertized, selection based on competitive evaluation.  105
2. Geological Services                    85      internationally advertized, twinning contract based on competitive  1,500
evaluation;
3. Organization and Training              30      locally advertized, selection based on competitive evaluation.  114
SMALL-SCALE MINING COMPONENT
115     locally advertized, selection based on competitive evaluation  765
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
1. Project Management Staff               180     local recruitment based on competitive evaluation              510       O x
2. Monitoring and Evaluation               4      international recruitnent based on competitive evaluation       60       o ON



78  -                                          Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
Table 6.2
Items for Review at the Mid-Term Review
Areas of Review                    Description of Items for Review              Participating Agency
Legal, Regulatory', Fiscal and  1. Progress in the implementation of the
Environment                     modified legal, regulatory, fiscal and                    MWEM/AGC/
Framework                       environmental framework                                 MTNRE/PC/MOF
Organization and Finance        2. Progress in the implementation of the                MWEM/MOF/PC
rolling three-year budget framework of MRD and the
adequacy of MRD's operations and maintenance
budget                                                      MWEM
3. Progress in the implementation of the
restructuring of MRD                                      MWEM/CSD
Manpower Development            4. Progress in the implementation of a
Career Development Program for MRD staff
MWEM
5. The efficacy of staff training programs
MWEM/CSD
6. Progress in the implementation of the Civil
Service Reform and its impact on MRD
MWEM
Operational                     7. Progress in the implementation of the
Priority Work Programs
8. Progress in the implementation of a user charge          MWEM
scheme covering geological mapping and mineral
laboratory services
Small-Scale Mining              9. The development strategy for artisanal and small-
scale mining sector and progress in the
implementation of the project component                     MWEM
Project Implementation          10. The performance of GOT and IDA in
Performance                     project management and
implementation                                         MWEM/MOF/IDA



-79 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
Backgmund:
1.    In mid 1993, as part of the discussions for the preparation of the Parastatal and Public Sector
Reform Project the Cabinet discussed and accepted a paper that outlined the major elements of a Civil
Service Reform Program, The program envisages five major components that will be worked on
over a five year period. These components are:
(i)    Ministerial Reorganisation and efficiency initiatives, including rationalisation of the
number and roles of ministries, annd the relationships of Ministries with the districts,
in light of the evolving strategy for each sector, resulting from privatisation;
(ii)   retrenchment and redundancy, arising from the ministry initiatives;
(iii)  pay reform, including the development of new pay scales for the new and smaller
ministry and district structures, with monetisation of all major benefits;
(iv)   personnel and human resource management, covering training and the development
of technical and managerial skills, and
(v)    personnel control procedures, covering hiring, promotions, and dismissal/redundancy
procedures.
2.    Since acceptance of the program Government has undertaken a number of start up actions.
An initial program of work and inputs was documented, in order to cost the program. Conditions of
effectiveness and disbursement were agreed under the PPRP for the appointment of a Government
Committee to steer the initiative; the appointment of a long term advisor for the committee, and the
appointment of resident experts for each of the five areas listed above. In addition donor funding
from ODA and UNDP was agreed to complement the IDA funding to be received under the PPRP.
3.    As of early March, 1994 a full time Government Executive Secretary had been appointed,
in addition the the Principal Secretary for Civil Service, to head the day to day running of the
program; the CTA and Redeployment advisor lad been recruited, and steps were underway to recruit
the Ministerial Reorganisation Expert and the Pay Reform expert. Additionally, a detailed plan of
work covering the next two years is under development for discussion with IDA and donors as part
of the preparation of the IDA Strucutral Adjustment Credit.



- 80 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Linkages to this Credit
4.    This credit envisages providing assistance to strengthen the organizational and manpower
capacities of the Mineral Resources Department (MRD) of the Ministry of Water, Energy and
Minerals. This assistance will be in parallel to the implementation of the overall civil service reform
program as aforementioed. Detailed analysis of the functions and organization of MRD has been
carried out by consultants financed under the PPF. The recommendations of the consultants in key
areas including the reorganization of MRD's Geology Division, staff training and the provision of
productivity-enhancing equipment and losgistic support would be implemented under the proposed
project. The institution strengthening component of the proposed project will be linked to the macro
effort headed from the Planning Commission, for Ministerial Reform. It is expected that the Ministry
of Water, Energy and Minerals will be among the second batch of ministries to be reviewed, during
calender 1995. It is anticipated that resources under PPRP will be used to assist in putting together
the restructuring team, carying out the analysis, agreeing recommendations and then implementing
those recommendations. Specifically funds will be allocated to short term consultants undertaking the
review, and to training and equipment needs that arise from adoption of the recommendations.
Sustainabilit
5.    The results of restructuring the ministry and the capacity building will be sustainable only to
the extent that the overall civil service reform program is able to tackle the issue of appropriate pay
reform and personnel management across the entire civil service. While the Ministry is deficient in
its technical skill base, and can use training funds to address these problems, it will not be able to
hold onto newly trained personnel without proper attention to wages and the allocation of sufficent
funds to the recurrent budget to allow for proper operation of its new mandate. The economic
arguement for appropriate attention to these areas is not in dispute, since the Mining Sector is
potentially a strong source of revenue to the economy, if properly managed. However, as with all
other ministries, real changes in performance require changes in the macro climate, as well as in the
micro situation of a particular sector or ministry. Progress by Government to date on the overall
reform program provide reason to believe that the needed macro changes will be able to support the
spcCi!ic initatives planned under this credit.



- 81 -                               Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
General Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Input
1.    Staff including consultant input will be needed for approximately 20 person weeks in the field
and 10 person weeks in Washington over the first two years of the project. The initial objectives will
be to ensure and assist Government with the start up logistics in each of the project components.
Subsequently, supervision will progress to cover various activities described in Annex 6, Table 6.0,
Project Implementation Activities and Timing.
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
2.    The Project Manager in the Office of the Commissioner, Mineral Resources, will act as the
central link between the project component managers (the Commissioner, Assistant Commissioners
and the head of the Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining Development Office).
3.    On a quarterly basis the Project Manager will provide IDA with a summary progress report
on tho component activities. This report will cover progress on procurement of all types (i.e.,
consultants, vehicles, equipment, etc); progress against major work plan milestones, details of all
expenditures in the quarter under each project component, and progress on training. Under a general
heading the Project Manager will report any particular difficulties or problems that are impacting
implementation.
4.    On an annual basis, MRD would prepare a rolling three-year budget and financing framework
for MRD as a whole and review it with IDA. The framework would cover actual recurrent and
capital expenditures for the preceding year and anticipated recurrent and capital expenditures for the
next three years. Sources of non-budgetary financing (e.g. out of the retained mineral revenues) will
also be reviewed.
5.    On an annual basis, MRD would prepare for review with IDA a rolling two-year Priority
Work Programs covering environmental, health and safety inspection of mines, updating of mineral
titles registration, and collection of outstanding mineral revenues.
6.    Prior to each field mission by IDA, the Pruject Manager will set up a timetable of key
meetings, as agreed between the Project Manager and the mission leader. The Project Manager will
also be responsible for notifying all component managers of the dates of missions, and for ensuring
the availability of component managers/staff for discussions.
7.    The Project Manager will be responsible with the IDA Task Manager for the organization and
conduct of the Mid-Term Review. A project evaluation consultant would be appointed to undertake
a detailed analysis of project implementation and present a draft report to the Government and IDA.



- 82 -                                 Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
Critical Areas of Supervision
8.    The following indicators of progress of project implementation will be given a particular
attention by MIA supervision missions:
A. Project Startup Activities
set up the project office, including the ordering of project office equipment and a
vehicle, and appoint all project management staff;
*     organize a project launch workshop for all component managers and officials
involved in the implementation of the project to familiarize them with the key
processes and requirements of the project;
*     establish start-up plans for each of the project components indicating timing of
preparation of procurement documeDmts and financing requirements.
B. Legal. Re&gao. Fiscal and Environmental Component
initiate procurement of consultants and appoint consultants
prepare draft consultant reports and review with all concemed agencies and IDA
approve draft legislation and submit to the Parliament
C. hbonlSte         _nigC      Un
initiate procurement of consultants and appoint consultants (for the geological services
component, conclude a twinning contract)
hinitiate procurement of equipment and tools
implement the Priority Works Programs and monitor their progress
*     undertake skills assessment and prepare career development plans
*     carry out training programs
D. Small-Scale Mining Component
*     initiate procurement of consultants and appoint consultants
undertake a Baseline Survey and analyze results
prepare detailed mechanisms for implementation of the Technology Information and
Demmnstration and Training sub-components
Mnitiate procurement of equipment



70  _           s,M e '                       * / b TANZANIA               4
Bukoba                 Mu                                      MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
RWAND                                                                                                         76 N. /b/R
Mwana                                                                  ENYA                                        || 9 PRODUaNG MINE OR PLANT:
*Williamson Diamonds
*Coastal Salt
BURUNDI J    '1   t1X5 zt, | A     haX  <hit                                                                       > Nyanza Salt
Kalaw                   T. V.                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pugo Kaolmn
IGm4ra Coal
4                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40
T.         '                4  r a +  OTHER PROJECFS:
Si                                                                               I    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kahama Gold
J  t  < =   g   Ta J    t   SiqlidaS               W            _ 01 1 \                _                 (i,hl                          2  Lake Natron Soda Ash
Pemba              i~~~ Kagera Nickel (BHP)
),deSC\                  4  Tanex (De Beers)
'    -    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~2I~F                              Areas Prospectiwe in Gold
Barge Movement
ZAII.                                                                                                                                                                                    Main Roa.dsLd
/                                                      Isl~~~~~            ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~and  8Secondary Roads
Railroads
Rivers
ZAMBIA                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Selected Towns
/                                           Æ      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Region Capitals
.. X.2>   "~ "   "* 4   r        \                             *      National Capital
The boundaries, colors,                                                                                        <             t                       Lind                                   Region Boundaries
denominations and  any                                                                                                                                          M                           I           Bona,.
other information shown                                                                                                                                         Mtwara Tntemabonal Boundare
onth,s map  do  notMls0                                s          0
nmply, on  the part ot                  MIII S  0 S0 _0"
Tre World  Bank Group.,
any judgment on the legal           10MlIFRS  0      50   100   150   200
status of ony territory,
or any endorsement                                                                                                                ,
or acceptance of such
boundories.
Z                                                                                                          1^                                 MOZAMBIQUE                                                                     I



