Report No. PIC1019
Project Name Tanzania-Mineral Sector Dev. Technical Assistance Project
Region                        Africa
Sector                        Industry, Mining and Minerals
Project ID                    TZPA2812
Full Project Name Tanzania-Mineral Sector Development Technical
Assistance Project
Implementing Agency           United Republic of Tanzania
Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
Mineral Resource Department
P.O. Box 2000 Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Contact: Commissioner, Mineral Resource
Tel: 255-51-31433
Fax:   255-51-37139
Date Prepared                 June 1993
Projected Board Date          June 1994
Project Objectives
1.     The principal objective of the project is to encourage and
expand private investment in mining and other mineral based
industries of Tanzania through sector policy and institutional
reforms. The project would introduce a legal, regulatory and fiscal
framework, which would provide a uniform, competitive and stable
environment conducive to private investment in mining. The
environmental management, mine safety and the mine workers' health
would be improved through institutional strengthening and capacity
building measures supported under the project. In addition, the
project would help improve the productivity, income and social
conditions of small-scale subsistence miners mostly operating in
Tanzania's poverty-stricken rural areas.
Description
2.     The project would have three main components.    (i) Legal and
Regulatory Framework: The project would provide consultancies to
review existing laws and regulations affecting mineral prospecting,
mining rights, and fiscal, environmental and safety aspects of
mining activities and to help introduce necessary amendments and
changes to them. In addition, a mineral titles registration and
information system would be established. (ii) Institutional
Strengthening: The project would improve the organizational,
manpower and logistical capacity of the Mineral Resource Department
to efficiently implement the legal and regulatory framework. In
addition, the project would finance the publication of about 40
geological mapsheets and improvements of MRD's mineral laboratory.
A mineral investment information unit would also be established to
provide both foreign and domestic investors with information on
minerals, investment regimes, and sources of technology, management
and investment financing. (iii) Small-scale Mining: The project



would finance collection and analysis of baseline data,
demonstration of simple and environmentally-sensitive technologies
and training and other capacity building support to encourage the
development of small-scale miners through self-help and
participatory approaches.
Environmental Aspects
3.     Environmental assessment Category B.   The project would address
the environmental problems associated with current small-scale
mining activities through effective regulatory, monitoring and
training measures as well as through introduction of simple
technology to minimize negative environmental effects of artisanal
mining. In addition measures would be introduced to improve mine
safety and general social conditions in a number of artisanal mining
villages. As regards medium and large-scale mining operations and
future private investments, the project would strengthen the
government's capacity to set appropriate industry-wide legislation
and regulatory standards and effectively monitor and enforce them
through improved mine inspection work. An environmental analysis of
the mineral sector is attached.
Implementation
4.     The Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM) would be
responsible for project implementation through its Mineral Resource
Department (MRD). The Office of the Commissioner, MRD would be
strengthened under the project to ensure that project activities are
well coordinated both within the Ministry and with other concerned
Ministries and Government Agencies. The proposed project would be
executed in five years.
Costs and Financing
5.     Project costs are tentatively estimated at US$14.5 million with
a foreign exchange component of about US$11.6 million. The IDA
would provide a credit of about US$13.1 million to finance mainly
the foreign costs of the project. The remainder would be financed
by the Government of Tanzania.
Contact Point - Public Information Centre
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note:         This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



