Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24382
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFI-P8180; IDA-26480)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$11.6 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 27, 2002
Sector Management Unit: CMNDR
Country Management Unit: AFCO4
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings (Tsh.)
Tsh.1.00 = US$ 0.00109
US$ 1.00 = Tsh.916.30
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FEMATA         Federation of Miners Associations of Tanzania
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
GS             Geological Survey
GOT            Government of Tanzania
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
MD                    Minerals Division
MEM            Ministry of Energy and Minerals MEM
MIGA           Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MRD            Mineral Resource Department
NDF            Nordic Development Fund
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
NVTC           National Vocational Training Centre
PMU            Project Management Unit
PSR            Project Status Report
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
REMAS          Regional Miners Association
SEAMIC         Southern and Eastern Africa Mineral Centre
SIDO           Small Industries Development Organization
SSM                   Small-scale Minifig
STAMICO        State Mining Corporation
TAMIDA         Tanzania Mineral Dealers Association
TAWOMA         Tanzanian Women Miners Association
TCM            Tanzania Chamber of Mines
UNIDO          United Nations Industrial Development Organization
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    James W. Adams
Sector Manager/Director:    Peter van der Veen
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Leo Maraboli



TANZANIA
MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               12
6. Sustainability                                                                   14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  17
9. Partner Comments                                                                 18
10. Additional Information                                                          26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               36






Project ID: P002812                                     Project Name: MINERAL SECTOR DEV.
Team Leader: Leo Maraboli                               TL Unit: CMNPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MINERAL SECTOR DEV.                          L/C/TFNumber: PPFI-P8180;
IDA-26480
Country/Department: TANZANIA                                          Region. Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: NN - Mining & Other Extractive
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/03/93                             Effective: 10/15/94           12/21/94
Appraisal:  01/20/94                                MTR: 09/30/96            07/31/97
Approval: 07/28/94                               Closing: 12/31/99           12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Government of Tanzania/GOVT: Ministry of Energy & Minerals (MEM)
Other Partners:
STAFF               Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo                          Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:    James W. Adams                           Robert Hindle
Sector Manager:      Peter van der Veen                      Peter A. Van der Veen
Team Leader at ICR:  Leo Maraboli                            Seung Choi
ICR Primary Author:  Leo Maraboli
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the project were to attract new private mining investment to Tanzania, and support
the growth of mineral exports, under environmentally sound conditions. They also aimed to increase
production, regularize and improve the overall conditions of small-scale miners, with emphasis on arresting
and mitigating the adverse environmental impacts resulting from the rudimentary and ineffective



technologies used by most of these miners. The project was to provide the government with necessary
technical, managerial and material support to implement a mining development strategy, which would
promote the growth of mineral exploration and mine development by both, foreign and local private sectors,
in an environmentally sustainable manner.
The main objectives set by the government and the associated initiatives were crucial for expanding further
the economy of the country, and realistic from a technical perspective. They were recognized as
particularly valid considering the: a) potential for developing an industrial-scale mining sector to produce
20-30 tons of gold annually, over a medium term of 5 to 7 years; b) favorable natural endowment
conditions for diversification of mineral production, through the potential for improving existing gemstone
mining activities and developing additional deposits, as well as for mining base metal minerals to produce
nickel; and c) opportunity to facilitate the growth of diamond output by 200-300 percent. These project
considerations were fully justified and supported initially by the results from studies on the mineral
endowment of Tanzania; and later by the results of the project, which exceeded these target levels nearly by
double; and presently by additional growth anticipated from new projects and expansion of some of the new
mines.
The objective related to artisanal and small-scale mining (SSM) was highly relevant for the country,
considering the growing trends of such activities conducted mostly informally, at the time of project
initiation, and their eventual boom towards the end of the 1990s. Informal mining indeed represented a
major and widespread source of income, but had adverse impacts on nearby communities and the
environment, including a latent threat to biodiversity, and to other important activities including tourism
and agriculture, as well as fishing at lake Victoria, which are of major importance for the national
economy. Accordingly, the efforts under the project aimed at helping to improve the situation of the miners,
mainly through the: a) execution of extensive baseline surveys to detennine existing practices, main issues
and constraints; b) determination of strategy and phased steps to improve their activities and working
conditions; c) establishment of pilot centers based on simple and environmentally friendly technologies to
disseminate best practice for mining, processing and safety; d) provision of extension services and training;
and e) incorporation of environmental standards and monitoring arrangements.
The project was consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy to support the development of the
private sector Tanzania. It strengthened resolutely the government's National Investment Promotion Policy
of 1990. This policy recognized the importance of the private sector, reducing and subsequently removing
requirements for government equity participation in mining ventures, but it attracted only initial interest of
private investors in the Tanzanian mining sector, because of not including crucial mineral policy aspects
and related modem legal, regulatory and fiscal regimes. These remained as deterrents to investment, and
only minor new investments materialized prior to 1994. The govemment recognized these deficiencies, and
assigned a high priority to attract more attention from potential investors. It sought assistance from the
Bank to make Tanzania intemationally competitive, by establishing a modem and comprehensive
investment framework to promote and expand private sector investment in the mining sector. Having
completed a mineral sector review of Tanzania in 1990, the Bank was able to respond quickly with a
Mineral Sector Development Technical Assistance project in December 1994, to support mineral sector
reform.
The Bank's involvement in the project was geared to enhance the govemment's capacity to: a) promote
mineral investments; b) modemize policy, regulatory and fiscal frameworks; c) oversee, administer and
enforce compliance with applicable laws and regulations; and d) restructure mineral institutions and
agencies, incorporating intemational experiences and practices, particularly on environmental matters. The
Bank assistance also supported the govemment in the mobilization of financing, and coordination of
- 2 -



activities with international agencies such as the Nordic Development Fund (NDF), the Australian High
Commission, and bilateral agencies such as the Canadian International Development Agency, interested in
the mining sector of Tanzania.
The project also took into account three main risk factors:
* The risk ofpossible future interest by existing state owned mines and government for an expanded
role in mining. This risk was alleviated through the new Mineral Policy approved by the Cabinet in
1997, which restricted the role of government to stimulate and guide private mining investment by
administering, regulating and facilitating the growth of the mining sector through a well organized and
efficient institutional framework. The risk was minimized further by the divestiture, to the private
sector, of the subsidiaries owned and operated by the State Mining Corporation (STAMICO).
*   The risk of adverse impacts caused by the continuing trend of rushes of artisanal and small-scale
miners, to areas with new discoveries of gemstones and/or gold. This risk was alleviated by
strengthening arrangements and capacity building at the Ministry of Energy and Minerals (MEM) to:
a) provide rapid field response, to process mineral rights applications from artisanal and small-scale
miners during rush conditions; b) ensure security, with law and order arrangements for compliance and
enforcement of assigned mineral rights, which resulted in significantly more orderly operations and
conditions; c) initiate extension services and training, from the start of new mining activities, to ensure
the establishment of adequate mining and processing practices, rather than dealing later with complex
corrections of adverse practices and legacies; and d) establish simple and environmental satisfactory
pilot centers, to familiarize with best mining, processing and safety practices, as a first step towards
adopting community and miners based arrangements to establish district processing and service
facilities.
* The risk ofpossible surfacing of impediments for the sustainability of components implemented
under the project. The project endeavored to decrease this risk by incorporating into its design
institutional restructuring and development of main functions, to enable the continuation of specific
crucial activities for technological improvements, introduction of environmental control and
management, and establishment and operation of a mineral sector cadastre.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of project objectives as presented in the MOP and the Loan Agreement.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following four components:
A. Legal, Regulatory, Fiscal and Environmental component
The main focus of this activity was to simplify the complicated and contradicting regulatory setup so that
investors, both local and foreign, could easily identify the legal and fiscal regimes as intemationally
competitive and transparent, and responsive to health and safety issues. It embraced principally the
revision of the mining legal and regulatory regimes including environmental matters, and determination of
improvements for the fiscal regime. Specific activities included:
(i). Lezal, Regulatory and Fiscal Framework. It was carried out with the assistance of intemational and
- 3-



local consultants (UK/TZ), with considerable input from local associations and NGOs. It involved: a)
Review and analysis of existing laws and regulations concerning mineral sector activity, with emphasis on
exploration, mine development, mineral rights, sectoral investments, and health and safety standards and
practices; b) Review and improvement of Model Mineral Investment Agreement, and preparation of
appropriate modem policy, legislation and regulations;
c) Preparation of detailed operational manuals relevant to the above; and d) Conduction of appropriate
training programs for applicable relevant Government staff;
(ii). Environmental Framework. It was carried out with the assistance of international and local consultants
(UK/TZ), with substantial input from local associations, NGOs, mining companies relevant stakeholders.
It involved: a) Preparation of an inventory of existing environmental liabilities within the mining sector, and
conduction of related quantitative analysis on pollution and health hazards associated with mining activity;
b) Preparation of appropriate environmental legislation for mineral activities; c) Formulation and design of
institutional procedures for environmental management of the mining sector, with emphasis on
arrangements to monitor and address appropriate compliance, and enforcement of environmental law and
regulations; and d) Preparation of a detailed operational manual for environmental management, which deal
with the above mentioned aspects.
B. Institutional Strengthening of MEM's Mineral Resource Department (MRD) component
The main focus of this activity was to provide technical assistance, consultancies, training, equipment, and
logistic support to enable MRD to fully and effectively implement the new mining sector policy, strategy,
legal and regulatory regimes. Emphasis was placed to strengthen the organizational, manpower and
logistic capabilities of MRD, and its zonal offices, to enable efficient and periodic monitoring of mineral
activities and environmental performance. Specific activities included:
(i). Actions to strengthen the field operations of MRD by implementing a Priority Work Program. It was
conducted with the assistance of local consultants, and centered on the following main activities: a) mine
safety and environmental field inspection practices, and related compliance; b) management of mineral
rights, including legal and procedural aspects on the provision, registration, and termination of rights; and
c) revenue collection, determination of fees and royalties, and associated accounting and administrative
activities.
(ii). Actions designed to strengthen the geological services of MRD by facilitating the execution of main
activities to enable the development, publication and dissemination of basic geological information for
promotional purposes. The main selected activities included: a) Compilation of available geological data,
field checking, editing and publishing of approximately 40 regional geological maps with scale of
1 :100,000; b) Partial rehabilitating of the existing mineral laboratory; c) Overhaul and maintenance of the
existing data base, and establishment of a mineral cadastral system; and d) Dissemination of geological
data to the investors community.
(iii). Actions to restructure the organization of MRD, with emphasis towards enhancing the capacity
building of staff.
It focused on measures to: a) restructure the responsibilities and organization of MRD b) undertake active
professional manpower development and training; c) conduct skills assessment and career development
programs, and d) provide required equipment.
C. Artisanal and small scale mining component
- 4 -



The activities under this component were geared to identify and appreciate the crucial issues of this
sub-sector, in order to test options for improvements. These involved technology transfer from other
mining countries, including health and safety aspects, with relevant tailoring to Tanzanian conditions,
giving full recognition to the acceptability by small-scale and artisanal miners, and enterprises, as
fundamental to enable adopting improved practices, technologies and management. They were carried out
with assistance from local consultants, and cooperation from the Ministries of Mines of mining countries
mainly from Africa, Asia, South-America and North-America. It included the main following tasks: a)
completion of a baseline survey and formulation of a development strategy; b) provision of technology
information and operational demonstrations; and c) provision of training for capacity building.
D. Project Management Unit component
The project financed the project management unit (PMU), which would manage and coordinate project
activities under MEM, including staff, incremental operating costs, office equipment, and transport.
3.4 Revised Components:
None of the project components was modified formally. However, the approach used for the
implementation of some components was adapted to circumstances and priorities found in Tanzania during
actual project execution:
*   Legal, Regulatory, Fiscal and Environmental component: Considerable expansion of these activities
resulted from the approach used, with comprehensive dialogue and exhaustive determinations for
mineral policy and strategy, on basis of exhaustive participation of stakeholders.
*   Investment promotion: Major increase of emphasis for minerals investment promotion, including
strategies and arrangements for attracting investments. These involved the development and
dissemination of basic information, with determinations of promising target areas, and their
examination through aerial surveys and associated interpretations.
* Mineral rights administration: Recognition of the need to modernize further the processing and
administration of applications received from mining companies, through the establishment of a
comprehensive cadastral mineral system to record, monitor, and facilitate the provision of information,
on the status and location of mineral concession areas, and support for the development of required
capacity.
* Institutional Strengthening of MEM's agencies: a) increased linkages between institutions and
agencies involved in the mining sector; b) revised phasing for strengthening activities, to reflect field
priorities and ensure achievement of project results, under initial implementation conditions with acute
scarcity of capacity and human resources; c) increased concentration on capacity building, needed for
project implementation and timely achievement of results, and d) downsizing zonal offices
improvements, to avoid over-extending MRD's physical and human resources, and allow subsequent
dimensioning from baseline surveys and formulation of programs for small-scale and artisanal miners.
*   Artisanal and small scale mining: Change of phasing to improve small-scale and artisanal mining due
to human resource constraints, and need for: a) baseline characterizations, deternination of options,
and program formulation; b) design, acquisition and installation of suitable pilot testing equipment; and
d) preparation of MRD's staff, to train miners and provide extension services.
- 5 -



*   Gemstone and carving training center: Introduction of training for gemstone polishing and carving, to
take opportunity of the abundance of semiprecious stones, for developing new handicrafts activities in
rural areas.
*   Environmental and Social aspects: Incorporation of extensive participation of stakeholders and
communities to address constraints, priorities and initiatives related to environmental, social, health,
safety and education matters in the mining sector.
The total cost of the project was US$12.54 million, which is US$1.4 million below the US$13.9 million
estimated in the MOP. A credit balance amounting to US$0.9 million remained to be cancelled at the end
of disbursements of the IDA Credit on April 30, 2002. The balance concemed components for small-scale
mining pilot testing, training in gemstone polishing carving, and rehabilitation of regional mining offices.
These were delayed by the project slowdown experienced during 2000-2001. However, all project
objectives had been ensured and achieved through two extensions to the loan closing date, and more
extensive contracting of national consultants, instead of intemational ones as originally planned, principally
regarding the legal and institutional reform process, assistance to small-scale miners activities.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not assess formally the quality at entry of the project. However,
the reviews conducted during the preparation of the ICR concluded that quality at entry was generally
satisfactory. The objectives of the project were consistent with the priorities of the Government, and the
country assistance strategy for Tanzania, which responded pragmatically to the fundamental issues that
affected the mining sector. The selected approach to mineral sector reform also reflected recent experiences
from Bank mineral development projects in Latin America and Westem Africa, which indeed constitute
effective instruments to achieve coherent sector growth and sustainable results. MEM reinforced its
technical capacity with the assistance of external consultants, which provided adequate technical design
quality, to meet the overall objectives of the project, and reflect findings from stakeholder consultations
held during project preparation. Overall, the project design was not considered difficult to manage for
MEM, principally because its main components would be executed with the assistance of consultants. In
addition, during project preparation, main risk factors were also identified, examined and addressed.
The broad scope of the project resulted in numerous project sub-components (21), which in combination
with the institutional weaknesses of MEM, and the production difficulties and geological information
constraints augmented project risks since the start of implementation. Consequently, during execution, a
major emphasis was given to prioritize, phase and adjust the planned activities, in order to enable the
achievement of clear results, by reflecting these circumstances and adopting a more focused approach.
This was done by promoting an active participation of relevant institutions and stakeholders, which
eventually accounted for more strengthened inter-Ministerial and inter-agency linkages, with enhanced
inputs and commitment. This approach accentuated particularly environmental matters and social aspects,
including rural life and sustainability, and facilitated the transformation of the mineral sector of Tanzania,
in a very short time, to its present status as the main destination of investments for mineral exploration and
mine development in Africa. It is anticipated that such approach will be fruitful again, in the short term, for
considerations on second generation mineral sector reforms, which are needed to consolidate the realized
achievements, and to address further in-depth improvements on the agenda for social, environmental and
sustainability matters.
The institutional components of the project did run into several difficulties from time to time, including
changes at the project management unit, with associated difficulties for ensuring continuity of
- 6 -



professionally qualified services to conduct the implementation. These were addressed in pragmatic and
participatory manner, which expedited the determination and adoption of solutions to deal with existing
issues.
From the mineral commodities perspective, it is recognized that project preparation did not address the
risks related to downturns of commodity prices, or possible major events with adverse impacts on the
global trends for mineral investments, such as the Bre-X scandal in Indonesia and effects from the East
Asian crisis. On the other hand, it is also recognized that quantifications on the above mentioned situations
would have been of no major consequence under the circumstances of Tanzania, at project design. This is
because the enabling mineral frameworks established under the project made possible to take stock of very
favorable geological conditions (Archean greenstone belts), which although identified had not yet been
examined comprehensively, or explored in detail, to accentuate their significance.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Highly Satisfactory. The project succeeded in achieving the objectives. Under the project, the government
created a structural enabling environment for the development of the mining sector, which facilitated an
outstanding growth of investments, production and related service, supply, support and indirect activities.
The direct and indirect investments and expenditures generated exceeded the costs incurred by the
government to establish this environment, by a ratio of over 110 to 1. Additionally, the resulting increases
of formal annual sectoral export values exceeded the expenditures of the Government by a ratio above 40
to 1. These represent by far the largest performance achieved for a comparable development project in
Tanzania.
The major achievements and outcome of the project are:
*   Policy and Legal Framework. A modemn mineral policy and strategy was prepared under the project,
and approved by the government in 1997. It was followed by the formulation of new mining law
enacted as the Mining Act of 1998, which was subsequently complemented with regulations approved
in 1999. This regulatory package constitutes a competitive framework for the development of the
mining sector. It includes laws and regulations for small-scale mining, and for environmental controls
and management. Additionally, the matter of compensation requirements for resettlement of land
tenants and users is also duly addressed under existing Tanzanian law, which has enabled the
resolution of some compensation cases through payments for crops, land, facilities and mineral works.
After three years of service, the regulatory package for the mineral sector has proven to be satisfactory
and effective. However, the ongoing participatory dialogue on sectoral issues indicates a growing need
for second generation reforms over the short- to medium-term, to adjust and improve this package, in
order to address full coverage of sustainability issues. This should focus on reflecting the trend of
persistent global evolution on social aspects, the continued growth and importance of small-scale
mining on which further information continues being gathered, and the further customization of
environmental management to match the particular conditions of Tanzania.
*   Institutional Framework The responsibilities of the State as a mining operator were eliminated and
the institutional setup of the mining sector was restructured with modem functions and organization,
and with strengthened capacity, in accordance with the role adopted by the government to: (a) stimulate
and guide private mineral investments; (b) facilitate, administer, monitor and regulate mineral
activities and sectoral growth through a modem and efficient institutional framework; (c) compile and
- 7 -



disseminate basic promotional geo-information; and (d) provide extension services to small-scale and
artisanal miners.
* Artisanal and Small-scale Mining. Achievements included:
o      incorporation of improved organization structure and processing, through pilot testing with model
district facilities suited to the conditions of artisanal miners, and worked on toll basis and batch mode, to
process separately minerals from different clients. Plant operation is by contractor, with agreed purchase
arrangements, under oversight of a commission with representatives of MEM and district authorities,
miners, and community stakeholders. However, only one of the eight pilot-demonstration plants included in
the project design was undertaken and completed due higher than anticipated costs, adoption of a phased
approach, and delays in procurement
o      involvement of local communities and miners, in addressing the orderly establishment and
enforcement of mineral rights during events of mining rushes, through participatory public meetings with
participation of mineral authorities, regional authorities, and involved dealers
o      facilitation of diversified economic activity, through the establishment of a gemstone polishing and
carving center in Arusha, to provide training for new handicraft activities in rural areas, and for
manufacturing gold jewelry. This is a joint effort with one of the large local gold producers, to transfer
skills and know-how from South Africa and Peru
o      fomnalization of the Tanzanian Women Miners Association - TAWOMA. This group includes
representation from most of the country. Its significant advocacy initiatives address support and
recognition of women in mining, provision of training and technical needs, and development of financing
mechanisms. They also account for contributions to improve intemational markets for Tanzanian
gemstones (Knowledge and Learning Center: Findings - issue 189 - August 2002).
o      introduction of practices to decrease adverse environmental impacts, reduce the release of polluting
substances, and reduce job-related toxic hazards. This involved mainly: the adoption of better mining and
processing equipment, suitable to Tanzanian conditions, that can be built locally; reductions and
improvements in mercury use; and improvements in tailings disposal.
o      provision of extension services through guidance for gcology and mineral reserves, and
improvement of mining and processing practices, with incorporation of technology and procedures to
improve reserve recovery.
* Mining Production and Investment. The anticipated increase on mineral investments and mining
production was exceeded by far during 2000. The number of prospecting and mining licenses
increased from 9 in 1990 to 250 in 2001. Total mineral exports increased from only US$15 million in
1996 to US$312 million in 2001, and are anticipated to exceed US$400 million during 2002.
Revenues from gold exports rose from virtually nil in 1996 to US$120 million in 2000, and are
anticipated to exceed US$326 million during 2002. This scenario could increase significantly over the
medium-term, with the expansion of production and some of the existing mines, and active exploration
at two major gold prospects and a large deposit of base metals. Additionally, a low-altitude aerial
survey is about to be initiated under financing from the Nordic Development Fund, to establish a
pipeline of promising target areas, which can be used to attract potential investors.
* Environmental Management. In respect of environmental management and controls, for large-scale
- 8 -



mining the conditions are established to provide satisfactory monitoring of sectoral performance,
compliance with regulations, and related enforcement. For small-scale and artisanal mining, ongoing
activities are on schedule at pilot-testing stage, but considerable work still remains, out of the scope of
the project, on the formulation of mechanisms and arrangements to establish satisfactory environmental
controls and management.
*   Indirect Benefits. The project provided many indirect benefits for Tanzania, which cannot be quantified
in monetary terms, but make extremely important contributions to the economy:
o      Contractors are increasingly employing services from Tanzanians suppliers in many mineral sector
activities, ranging from drilling at exploration stage to tire servicing for the new mines. Local suppliers are
increasingly supplying the industry with goods, both local and foreign, needed to support mineral
exploration, mine development and mine operation. As planned, local consultants were utilized extensively
and successfully throughout the project.
o      The project increased the skill levels of many Tanzanians, both by formal training and on-the-job
development of know-how thus ensuring that benefits from the mineral sector can be are shared by many.
O      The exploration activities and the new mines have brought with them improved infrastructure, not
only for their operations, but also for associated communities.
o      The Geita-Mwanza area, with three new gold mines operating and dynamic exploration activity
underway is witnessing and taking opportunity of major improvements in employment opportunities, new
infrastructure, evolution of air transport capacity, and growing demands for services and support facilities.
o      The progressive evolution of improvements in services for expatriate community both in Dar es
Salaam and in Mwanza, which has broadened to housing, education, markets, hotels and restaurants. This
is important if the Tanzanian mining sector is to attract and retain highly skilled personnel - essential for a
successful mining industry.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Legal, Regulatory, Fiscal and Environment Frameworks
Policy Framework. Prior to the preparation of new mineral law and regulations, significant efforts were
undertaken under the project, as preceding steps to formulate and establish formally a modem mineral
policy and strategy. It involved the active encouragement of participatory inputs and establishment of
consensus with stakeholders, principally through the actions of specific commissions, workshops,
roundtables and seminars. This was completed and approved in 1997.
Re2ulatory, Fiscal and Environmental Frameworks. The new policy and strategy enabled the preparation
and passing of new Mineral Law in 1998, which focused particularly on mineral rights, security of tenure,
small-scale mining, and environmental aspects. It was followed during 1999, by the development of
improved model mineral investment agreements, and with comprehensive regulations, which also included
stipulations and guidelines for small-scale and artisanal mining, health and safety, and environmental
control and management. Additionally, these were paralleled by the establishment of more competitive
fiscal conditions for the mineral sector, in line with intemational trends, and with regulatory improvements
of the general investmnent frameworks of the country.
-9-



Environmental Management. Environmental surveys were conducted in areas with current large- and
small-scale mining, and zones previously mined. Results were addressed at workshops and roundtables for
social and environmental assessments of issues related to mineral activities. These enabled the development
of an integrated multi-institutional approach to monitor and maintain a detailed information management
system for the environmental conditions, issues and performance of the mining sector.
B. Institutional Strengthening of MEM's Mineral Resource Department (MRD)
Field Operations of MRD. The improvement of field operations was addressed through the execution of a
Priority Work Program, which received strong institutional support throughout the implementation of the
project. It improved the field inspection capabilities and practices, the provision and administration of
mineral rights, and the collection and administration of revenues from fees and royalties, which was of
particular importance given the progressive growth of the small-scale mining sub-sector.
Geological Services of MRD. The improvement of geological services was achieved through the execution
of all planned components, to support the development, publication and dissemination of basic geological
information for investment promotion. These strengthened significantly the geological database of the
countiy. They included the preparation and publication of 40 geological maps, partial rehabilitation of
laboratory, improvement of existing mineral and geological information systems and databases, promotion
of information to investors, and strengthened capacity to develop basic geological information.
The actual requirements for a cadastral system and geological information exceeded substantially the scope
originally anticipated during design. The designed requirements were completed under the project.
Additional co-financing was sought and received from the Nordic Development Fund, for further work to
design and implement: a) a comprehensive cadastral system for mineral rights, which can also handle
efficiently the processing and administration work related to the numerous small-scale and artisanal miners;
and b) an aerial survey with related interpretations, to develop basic promotional information on selected
promising target areas with favorable geology. The design of both activities has been recently completed,
and emphasis is now placed on the procurement of required services.
Reorganization of MRD. The capabilities of MRD were improved through organizational restructuring,
and enhancement of manpower and logistic capabilities. It involved principally a major re-definition of
responsibilities, provision of resulting requirements of capacity building, and supply of relevant equipment
necessities. The formulation of the institutional reform was conducted without delays, but its
implementation was affected by project team changes, and shifting conmmitment from mineral authorities,
which resulted in serious slippage. However, it regained momentum from early 2001 until project
completion.
The new organizational structure was operative by the end of 2001. It resulted in: a) improved
management of mineral rights, with modem arrangements to provide and administrate mineral rights and
environmental permits; b) improved procedures and practices to deal with periodic mining-rushes of
artisanal miners; c) establishment of procedures, and preparation of operation and training manuals, and d)
provision of modem infrastructure; and e) substantial capacity building.
C. Artisanal and Small-scale Mining
The project focused on preparing a comprehensive and detailed diagnosis of the small-scale and artisanal
miners, with emphasis on their working, social, environmental and health conditions, and on their particular
organizational structure and trading practices. An inventory of small-scale and artisanal mining sites in
- 10 -



Tanzania was completed by a local consulting group. It was followed by extensive consultations and
analysis of the situation found in other mining countries. This resulted in the identification of options for
Tanzania, which were then addressed by integrating all aspects of the activities and conditions of such
miners. This involved participatory workshops and roundtables with stakeholders, which duly included
miners, representatives from the communities and traders. Subsequently, emphasis was placed to apply
information on the structure of the miners at mining rushes, introduce district plants, diversify to gemstone
carving and polishing, establish a women miners association, disseminate best practice, and provide
extension services and training. Several procedures manuals were developed and published, in both the
Swahili and English languages, addressing health and safety in small-scale mining.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The formal net present value or economic rate of return are not appropriate measurements for this technical
assistance project, given it was not directly related to an investment project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. The institutional development impact of the project was substantial. The mandates,
responsibilities and functions of the institutions and agencies of the mineral sector were modemized, and
now are consistent with the role of the State as a regulator of mineral sector activity.
A revised structure for MD was developed as part of overall reform of the civil service. However, though
approved, the implementation of the new structure was delayed considerably, due to project team changes,
and fluctuating commitment from mineral authorities. Steady momentum was regained from early 2001
due to the fast growth of mining activities, which indeed over-extended the existing institutional resources
and capacity, thus compelling to modemize the structure and capacity of MEM and its mineral units.
The institutional capabilities were improved through reorganization, capacity building, and upgrading of
logistic capabilities. Consistent efforts were made to enable the reorganization, modernization and
sustainability of these institutions and agencies, in line with intemational best practices, while reflecting the
specific conditions of Tanzania. These consisted of capacity building through formal and on-the-job
training, infrastructure through re-equipment and rehabilitation of offices, purchase of data processing
equipment and establishment of computerized databases, and gradual decentralization through
strengthening of regional offices for administration of mining rights and inspectorate responsibilities,
including environmental monitoring.
The backlog of over 2,000 license applications, which existed in 1994, had been cleared and revenue
collection has increased almost tenfold. The preparation of procedural manuals had been delayed pending
completion of the restructuring of MD, but was subsequently completed. The improvement of zonal offices
was downsized, to avoid over-extending further the physical and human resources of MRD, and to allow
dimensioning any further improvements on the basis of actual requirements related to the large-scale mines
and activities related to small-scale and artisanal miners. The existing offices were made functional, with
equipment and capacity to carry functions related to mineral rights, mines inspectorate, and provision of
extension services. However, while extensive training of MD staff has been completed, MD has developed
- 11 -



only a limited ability to critically analyze applications for mine development, assess mine operations, and
make realistic projections of govemment income for the sector.
Further reformn implementation is underway to complete: a) the modemization of policy and performance
monitoring at MEM; b) the modem administration of mineral rights with a comprehensive cadastre being
funded by NDF to handle large-scale, small-scale and artisanal miners; c) the establishment of an
Environmental Mining Unit to work in close coordination with the Ministry of the Environment on
activities of environmental management, monitoring, compliance, enforcement, and also evaluation of
EIAs; and d) the further expansion, maintenance and updating of mineral information systems and
databases, including intemet interfaces, and operational networks.
It is recognized that existing civil service conditions, under which MEM and its agencies operate, might
become a source of staff tumover, which could affect the continuity of service of staff trained under the
project, and the quality of staff to be recruited in the future. This last point is a matter of considerable
concem, given that continued rapid sectoral growth and evolution of increasingly complex issues will pose
increased management/administration requirements, and cutting-edge capabilities to anticipate and address
social and environmental issues. In this connection, initial steps have recently been taken to physically
separate from MEM and modularize, to some extent, the existing mining sector development project unit,
and a team responsible for developing and analyzing sectoral information
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The increasing trend of mineral exploration investments in Tanzania, and its leadership as the largest
destination of such investments in Africa, was affected considerably by the combined effects of lower
intemational metal prices and increasing difficulties to raise funding. In 1998, sharp declines of metal
prices resulted in significant reductions of exploration programs at major mining companies. Additionally,
during 1997-1998, the Bre-X scandal in Indonesia and the East Asian crisis resulted in ensuing lack of
financing, which eroded the capability of smaller exploration companies in the "junior" category to raise
funding for mineral exploration in countries with remote situations such as Tanzania.
The local climate for mining was considerably affected by complaints about deaths that allegedly took
place in 1996, at the Bulyanhulu exploration area, during a government operation to fill illegal mining pits.
The allegations involved human rights abuses, forced evictions, and killings of artisanal miners. They were
investigated by several independent parties, which consistently found they could not be substantiated.
Bulyanhulu was subsequently developed into a mine by a Canadian company, which acquired financial
interest in the exploration prospect during March 1999, and became involved in project development four
years after the alleged events, during 2000.
It is worth noting that prior to the development of the Bulyanhulu mine, the area was worked by artisanal
miners under very unsafe conditions, which resulted in frequent accidents and death of miners.
Rudimentary shafts were dug too close to each other, and scaffolding used was unsafe, which resulted in
regular mine subsidence events and accidental deaths. Other repeated cause of death was asphyxiation due
to lack of underground ventilation. Additionally, the area faced many of the social and environmental
problems of artisanal mining, including, child labor, mercury contamination effects, and lawlessness. This
situation has changed entirely today. The mining activities are in accordance with intemational
environmental and social standards. About 1,500 permanent and contract jobs have been created, and
- 12 -



indirect employment has exceeded 7,500 jobs. Also, extensive training is being provided to employees in
order to develop the skills and know-how required for all mine related activities.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Some initial delays, including the establishment of an adequate project implementation unit accounted for
slippage of about five months until the credit became effective, in December of 1994. Some of the project
components were also affected by delays in initiating cofinancing arrangements with NDF for the
environmental monitoring and control components, and for aerial surveys. These eventually resulted in
NDF support for the surveys, and for cadastral systems for the administration of mineral rights.
The buildup of momentum for mineral sector development was strongly supported by the Government. It
peaked in 1998, with a dialogue of two days held in Arusha, with chief executive officers of mining
companies, in which the Government was represented by the President, with the Minister of Finance and
the Minister of Mines and Energy. However, continuity was subsequently affected by ministerial and other
high level changes at MEM, and by lengthy serious difficulties on the energy sub-sector, which diverted
strength and commitment from mineral sector initiatives and implementation since 2000. This resulted in a
major project slowdown with a sharp drop in disbursement trends. It was followed by major team changes
in early 2001, with ensuing discontinuity, and related adverse impacts on project completion activities.
Nevertheless, a renewed high-level attention to the mineral sector is progressively underway since early
2001, partly due to the progressive resolution of energy related issues, and also because of concem on the
over-extended institutional situation of the mineral sector. Such attention is reflected in the current
implementation of further institutional reorganization and strengthening, outside the project.
Finally, the improvement of field offices was delayed considerably by the combined effects of: a)
insufficient funding initially assigned for civil works; b) Government directives to use vacant public
buildings, which finally could not be made available: and c) lack of counterpart funding through 1997.
However, such delay facilitated the already mentioned downsizing improvements, to avoid over-extending
MRD's physical and human resources, and allow subsequent sizing from surveys and programs for
small-scale miners.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The structure of MEM, which includes centralized high-level management and administrative functions for
its minerals and energy sub-sectors, was a factor that delayed the project activities underway in 2000, and
initiation of other scheduled work. While MEM allocated more high-level resources to the difficulties on
energy, the mineral sub-sector underwent decision-making vacuum, which was reflected on protracted
decision-making experienced by the project, which affected investment promotion work, mineral sector
development activities, and participatory social and environmental events.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was US$12.54 million, which is US$1.4 million below the US$13.9 million
estimated in the MOP. A credit balance amounting to US$0.9 million remained to be cancelled at the end
of disbursements of the IDA Credit on April 30, 2002. The balance concemed components for small-scale
mining pilot testing, training in gemstone polishing carving, and rehabilitation of regional mining offices.
These were delayed by the project slowdown experienced during 2000-2001. However, all project
objectives had been ensured and achieved through two extensions to the loan closing date, and more
extensive contracting of national consultants, instead of international ones as originally planned, principally
regarding the legal and institutional reform process, assistance to small-scale miners activities.
- 13 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. On balance, the sustainability of various components of the project is likely. Even though several
skilled professionals have left the MD and the Geological Survey for employment in the private sector,
which could adversely impact the efficient administration of the reformed sector, the government is
continuing the process of improving the skills of local professionals. The government is also making good
progress concerning interventions in the small-scale and artisanal mining sub-sector. Funding for the
requirements of MD which was a significant problem early in the project, has largely been overcome as
provision has been made for retention in MD of some of the funds being collected from the sector. The
sustainability of the new policies and achievements of the project need to be enhanced through continuing
activities to take stock of achievements, providing further in-depth follow-up on priority issues, and
addressing evolving constraints.
The sustainability of MEM has been reinforced further, through training provided under the project to staff
of MEM and its agencies, and by progressive formalization of informal small-scale and artisanal miners,
thereby incorporating them into the formal system. Additionally, the introduction of a currently operational
retention revenue scheme in July 1998, allows an adequate retention level from payments being received by
MEM from ongoing exploration and mining activities to be used in order to sustain some operations of
MEM, under specific conditions. This scheme provided US$2,135,142 in FYI999/2000, and
US$2,216,762 in FY2000/2001. It was observed that revenues from rights and land fees for exploration
and mining increased from US$94,799 in 1995/1996, to US$1,553,243 in 1999/2000, and remained rather
stable at US$1,458,765 during 2000/2001. The resources provided under the above-mentioned scheme are
sufficient for the mineral sector to sustain the achievements in the long term, including capacity for sector
management, and maintenance and renovation of infrastructure established under the project.
Sustainability of the sector, however, could be affected by low intemational mineral prices, and/or by
continued financing scarcity for exploration and mine development investments. On the other hand, if
Tanzania maintains a sufficient level of these mineral activities, then MEM and its agencies will derive
necessary resources from revenues related to mineral rights such as geological and mining fees, mineral
rights/annual rents and royalties, and from state financing, which would ensure sustainability. In this
context, there is already an awareness that the continued growth of the mining sector, and ensuing
sustainability, would depend on preparing a pipeline of geological target areas, while investments continue
over the next 3-4 years principally from expansion of the Geita and Bulyanhulu mines. This would
maintain investment and production growth, and provide a 3-4 year window to develop, mature and
promote new target areas near Lake Victoria and other locations.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The successful transition to regular operations is facilitated by the fiscal regime adopted during project
implementation, which is favorable for the sustainability of the mining sector. In addition, the introduction
of an operational retention revenue scheme in 1998 would facilitate sustaining MEM operations from
payments received on exploration and mining activities. However, political commitment, and risks related
to the centralized high-level management and administrative functions for the minerals and energy
sub-sectors remain as crucial factors to ensure the sustainability.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
- 14 -



Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank maintained a proactive attitude in the opening of dialogues for the development and
reform of the mineral sector with: i) the Government, MEM and relevant institutions and agencies; ii)
mineral associations, NGO's and stakeholders; and iii) international agencies, cofmanciers, and bilateral
agencies. In addition, the Bank maintained a good skill mix, and an excellent working relationship with the
Borrower and related agencies. The project preparation was well organized, systematic, and satisfactory.
During the project appraisal, the Bank assessed the risks and benefits of the project, and reflected them in
the project documentation.
In the early stages of implementation, contributions from the Bank headquarters was reduced because of
the frequent change of task managers, and the use of temporary task managers with little sectoral exposure.
The local staff with project responsibility, however, remained unchanged during implementation, thereby
providing much needed continuity, and assistance to PMU staff and new task managers.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. After project effectiveness, staff changes at the Bank and MD underwent a renewal of close
working relationships, which continued through project closure. This excellent working relationship was
acknowledged at the highest levels in Tanzania. Over the seven years of project implementation, there were
17 supervision missions, about two missions annually. The Bank supervision missions included mining
engineers, specialists in mining sector development, environmental aspects, and regulatory matters. These
were complemented with specific inputs from consultants on small-scale mining, gemology, strategy, law,
environment, and social matters. Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and shared. The Form 590s and
Project Status Reports (PSRs) rated realistically rated the performance of the project in respect of
achievement of objectives and project implementation. The Bank also commented on studies and initiatives
executed under the project.
Throughout the implementation of the project, the supervision missions and the PMU made extensive use of
participatory approaches to facilitate the examination and awareness of mining development activity and
issues. These included: workshops, seminars and presentations based on participatory orientations, which
also helped foster relationships between the Government and mining investors; and dialogues on concerns,
constraints, needs and options for the sustainable improvement of the environment to attract private
investment for mining.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower was intimately associated with project preparation at all stages. The officials of
the government, and staff of assistance agencies worked closely with Banks staff throughout the
preparation period. All government participating agencies collaborated fully, which facilitated project
formulation and design, as well as the Bank's related processing activity. Additionally, the Borrower made
valuable contributions towards the implementation methodology, and the identification of risks both in its
implementation and sustainability.
-15-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The government demonstrated strong and continuing commitment to mineral sector reform at
all levels. Throughout the project, the Minister of Energy and Minerals and the Permanent Secretary
provided leadership, while the Commissioner of Minerals provided important technical contributions to the
success of the project. It is particularly remarkable and worth repeating, that on many occasions, the
President of Tanzania, personally participated in dialogues with actual and potential investors in the
mineral sector, assuring them of his country's commitment to reform of its mineral sector, and inviting their
participation. Additionally, he also led Tanzanian delegations to several countries, promoting mineral
investments and manufacturing downstream semi-precious products in the country. The government has
also announced that an annual Presidential Award will be given for Leadership and Excellency in
Environmental Management. This much-awaited award will constitute an important signal to international
mining investors and stakeholders, about the environmental performance of the new mines, and about the
seriousness placed by the government on the compliance with sound environmental terms.
During the implementation period, the Borrower was frequently hampered by important issues such as: (i)
coordination difficulties between project components; (ii) delays in starting work programs due to lack of
counterpart funding from Borrower in a timely manner; (iii) inadequate supervision of consultants due to
lack of experienced counterpart personnel; (iv) procedural delays in the tendering process particularly in
respect to civil works; and (v) changes in project manager and composition of PMU. These issues were,
however, duly recognized, addressed and resolved by the government.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The performance of the Project Management Unit (PMU) became satisfactory after an initial
period of familiarization with the Bank procedures. However, its performance was constrained at times by
factors outside its control, such as lack of local funding for the project, and instances of slow
decision-making within both the government and the Bank. The PMU executed daily activities smoothly,
and coordinated closely with the Bank. There were only three project managers during the implementation
period, which provided stability. However, major team changes occurred in the last year of the project,
with some PMU staff moving to the private sector, and others reallocating within MEM. The resulting
discontinuity affected adversely the completion of some components and the Bank disbursements, while
placing considerable stress on the replacement staff.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfornance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
Activities of PMU: a) process procurement and disbursements; b) prepare and implement training plans; c)
coordinate and integrate work plans; c) ensure availability of funds; d) organize inter-institutional and inter-agency
linkages; organize participatory events with stakeholders; e) organize sector promotional events; f) monitor and
report on project progress and prepare quarterly reports g) organize preparations for mid-term review; and h)
manage project accounts and organize preparation of audits.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Commitment to Institutional Reform. The vital precondition for successful mineral sector reform is a
comprehensive and sustained commitment from government authorities. This should be imparted to the
staff of sectoral institutions, in order to implant in them a strong commitment to the reform, and a sense
- 16 -



of ownership and responsibility for the reform process. Their participation in seminars, workshops,
training programs, and exposure to best practice and experience from mining countries with successful
reforms would be useful for this purpose.
*    Integrated and Phased Approaches for Mineral Sector Development. The mineral sector reform
should be approached in an integrated manner, especially on the main components of initiatives for the
reform, such as cadastral systems, extension services for small-scale miners, investment promotion
activities, and development of basic information for promotional purposes.
*   Stakeholder Participation and Social Dimensions. Formulation and implementation of mineral sector
technical assistance programs need to address associated social dimensions, incorporating consistent
social strategies and elements. This should be initiated during project preparation, built-in throughout
project implementation, and subsequently continued by sectoral and related government institutions
over the long term. The process should aim to enhance stakeholder participation and consensus on the
objectives and results of mineral sector development, thereby ensuring more sustainable and improved
contributions from mining activities to society.
*   Poverty Alleviation. There is an increasing need to: a) identify and quantify carefully the direct and
indirect impacts of the growing mineral activity; and b) formulate regional development initiatives and
measures, to take stock of the economic activity being generated by mining non-renewable mineral
resources. In addition to health, social and environmental matters, such initiatives and measures should
focus particularly on options for diversification, to ensure sustainability beyond mining in the
improvement of rural life, which is inherently based on depleting resources.
*   Information Development and Management. The basic information developed under mineral sector
projects is fundamental to support sectoral development, and other activities such as land use, rural
development planning, and resolution of potential conflicts. At project preparation, with the
participation of stakeholders it is essential to deternine: a) the public good nature of information to
develop and maintain in databases, which could include geological, geophysical and/or geochemical
data; b) the specific information products to be developed for specific consumer groups; c) the simplest
and lowest cost mechanisms to avail data products to users and public, including brochures,
publications, CDs, web sites, and internet; d) the provision of training for potential users, on how to
use availabe data; and e) the adequate monitoring to ensure appropriate data usage.
*   Capacity Building and Local Consulting Development. The approach of the project in the use of
foreign and national experts produced very successful results. While short-term foreign specialists
contributed to introduce cutting edge approaches, practices and technologies, their inputs were
supported by national consulting firms and individuals. This enabled to absorb and tailor the received
inputs into a Tanzanian context and reality, as observed in small-scale mining, gemology and
inspectorate functions, with sustainability results substantially enhanced. In addition, the study tours of
authorities and institutional staff to other mining countries, with targeted seminars and workshops on
main issues, constraints, and best practice also yielded positive results.
*   Institutional Capacity Building. The programs for institutional capacity building should be formulated
and implemented in close relationship with components of specific mineral sector development projects,
and related activities to be executed by institutions and agencies under such projects. This strategy
enhanced considerably the appreciation of staff for the training received, as well as their commitment.
The project also benefited directly from the prompt application of such training, with very positive
results obtained on aspects of capacity building for mineral policy and law, assistance to small-scale
- 17 -



mining, environmental and social matters, and training arrangements for cartography.
*   Supervision. The task team's frequent use of low cost email and telecommunications, enabled direct
dialogues with the project management and relevant parties in the country, and facilitated the Bank's
routine follow-up of project activities and evolving situations in real time, as a virtual side-partner,
rather than as a supervisor. It also enabled the Bank to deal pragmatically and timely with complex
situations, institutional weaknesses and uncertainty, and facilitated the identification and adoption of
solutions, sometimes under challenging conditions.
*   Project Management Unit. The modularization of the PMU and its physical separation from MEM, in
parallel with a team to develop and analyze sectoral information played a key role in the success of the
project.
*   International and Bilateral Assistance. Transparent and well-coordinated support from the Bank and
NDF resulted in avoiding duplication, and prevented from placing excessive demands on the already
over-extended situation of MEM and its agencies.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The project was successful in attracting major private investments for exploration and mine development,
on the basis of building a favorable, conducive and internationally competitive climate to attract investors.
This included the support of an improved institutional framework, with adequate information to ensure
sectoral development and administration, with adequate arrangements for monitoring, compliance and
enforcement, from regulatory and environmental perspectives.
The small-scale and artisanal mining activities also improved during the implementation of the project.
Their legal, technical, social and environmental conditions have benefited from upgrading the provision and
enforcement of mineral rights, which have enabled a better situation of law and order, decreasing
difficulties during mining rushes, and reducing situations of property invasions by illegal miners.
Community based approaches are being used to address and clarify issues on mineral rights. Pilot
processing is being used to improve mineral processing on the basis of integrating small producers into
larger scale facilities, with better technology and environmental practices.
Main difficulties resulted principally from issues on the energy sub-sector, which drained considerably the
efforts needed for mining sector development during the last two years of project implementation. In this
respect, the main achievements of the project were realized prior to the last two years of implementation.
The stability of the project coordination unit proved to be crucial for the obtained achievements. Some
main lessons leamed include the need to design and implement social, environmental and communication
strategies with comprehensive community participation on issues related to sector development, and with
well defined socio-economic elements to improve the conditions of small-scale and artisanal miners.
Another important lesson is the need to ensure continuity, by using permanent staff at involved institutions
and agencies, instead of short-term contract experts, which would enable to build capacity within these
institutions and agencies. Additionally, local consultants should be used to the extent possible, to enhance
project sustainability, build contract capacity, and reduce costs.
The sustainability of the sectoral framework institutions and main functions should be strengthened for the
reformed framework, through provision of adequate funding. The challenge for MEM is to sustain
- 18 -



activities, identify and address main weaknesses, and to identify funding sources to support the continuous
improvement of: a) the promotion of exploration and mine development; b) the provision and administration
of mineral rights for small-scale and artisanal mining; c) the environmental and technical situation of
small-scale and artisanal mining; and d) the relationships between the communities and mining
development.
(b) Borrower's Evaluation Report
1. Background. Tanzania has a diverse mineral resource base and a long history of mining in gold,
diamonds, gemstones and industrial minerals. At the time of project identification in 1992, the mining
sector had been in continuous decline for more than two decades. While the share of GDP contributed by
mining had been as high as 10% in the 1950s, the share had declined to less than 2% in 1994. This decline
resulted mainly from long-term macroeconomic instability and state interventionist policies, which
discouraged private mining. These policies for the mineral sector were implemented through the State
Mining Corporation (STAMICO), which was charged with exploring for, developing and marketing the
mineral resources of the country.
In 1990, the Government introduced a "National Investment Promotion Policy" which recognized the
importance of the private sector, reduced and subsequently removed the requirement for government equity
participation in mining ventures. While the private sector showed an interest in the Tanzanian mining
sector, the absence of a clear policy for the sector combined with the lack of modem legal, regulatory and
fiscal regimes remained a deterrent to private investment. Little new investment was undertaken prior to
1994. This was in contrast to other African and South American countries where extensive exploration,
especially for gold, had been underway.
2. Obiective. The Government recognized these deficiencies that Tanzania should have been attracting
more attention from potential investors and sought the assistance of the IDA to put in place a new
investment framework to promote and expand private sector investment in the mining sector. As the IDA
had already completed a mineral sector review for Tanzania in 1990, it was able to respond quickly to the
request. A Mineral Sector Development Technical Assistance Credit (CR 2648 TA) in the amount of SDR
8.9 million (equivalent to US$ 12.5 million) was extended to the Government in December 1994 to support
sector reforn with the objective of attracting private investment, both foreign and local, into the sector.
More explicitly, the primary objective of the project funding was to provide the Government with the
necessary technical, managerial and material support for the design and implementation of a new private
sector oriented mining development strategy that would be environmentally sustainable.
A secondary objective was to assess the operation of the extensive small scale and artisanal mining in
Tanzania with a view to improving the technology, working conditions, environmental and social aspects of
this sub-sector.
3. Description. The project was designed with three main components. A Legal, Regulatory, Fiscal and
Environmental Component which would undertake the revision of the mining laws and regulations, the
modification and clarification of the fiscal regime, and the establishment of an environmental management
framework. The second component, the Institutional Strengthening Component was designed to improve
the organisational, manpower and logistical capacity of the Minerals Division (MD) and the Tanzania
Geological Survey These two entities formerly constituted the Mineral Resources Department (MRD) to
administer, regulate and promote the sector. The third component, the Small Scale mining Component was
designed to collect baseline data, to formulate development strategy for the sub-sector, demonstrate simple
- 19 -



environmentally friendly technologies and undertake some training of small scale and artisanal miners. Full
descriptions of the above components are contained in Annex 1.
4. Implementation responsibilities. Implementation of the project was entrusted to the then Ministry of
Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM). A Project Management Unit (PMU) was created specifically for
this purpose within the Minerals Division (MD).
5. Co-ordination with other donors. No other donors were formally identified as co-financiers. The
Nordic Development Fund (NDF) has, however, supplemented the project through continuing assistance to
the Minerals Division and the Geological Survey in the fields of geophysics, geochemistry and in the design
of a modem minerals cadastre.
6. Stakeholder participation. Throughout the project implementation a continuing dialogue was
maintained with the stakeholders both through meetings, roundtables and conferences (Annex 2) and on an
informal level. The stakeholders included government agencies, NGOs, multilateral agencies, mining
companies and consultants. A list of some of the key stakeholders is presented as Annex 3. Of particular
note was a dialogue with the CEOs of many prominent mining companies which was held in Arusha in
1998. A highlight of this meeting was the presence of the President, H.E. Benjamin W. Mkapa, who
personally extended an invitation to participate in the Tanzanian mining sector.
7. Achievements. The project broadly achieved the objectives by modemizing the legal and fiscal regimes,
establishing an environmental framework for mining, strengthening institutional capacity, and improving
the conditions in the artisanal and small scale mining sub-sector. The scheduled completion dates for key
indicators are compared with the actual dates in Annex 4. Detailed analysis of the project achievements is
presented below in Section D.
8. Sustainability requirements. A key requirement for a successful project is sustainability of
achievements after project completion. The President's Memorandum for the project clearly identified the
main risks for sustainability Failure to restore private sector confidence, lack of institutional capacity in MD, and
the difficulties of intervention in the small-scale sub-sector. and provided for several built-in features of the
project designed to enhance sustainability beyond project completion. The sustainability of this project is
satisfactory in most aspects but there are significant risks for sustainability in others. Sustainability is
discussed in Sec.D.
Borrower Performance
In broad terms the performance of the Borrower has been outstanding. The Government has demonstrated
a strong and continuing commitment to sector reform at all levels. Throughout the project, the Minister of
Energy and Minerals and the Permanent Secretary provided leadership while the Commissioner of Minerals
has contributed significantly to the success of the project. It is particularly noteworthy, and worth
repeating, that the President of Tanzania, H.E. Benjamin Mkapa, has personally participated on more than
one occasion in dialogue with actual and potential investors in the mining sector, assuring them of his
country's commitment to reform of its mining sector and inviting their participation. The performance of
the Borrower in specific aspects of the project is discussed below.
- 20 -



Role in project preparation: The Borrower was intimately associated with project preparation at all
stages. All concerned agencies of the Government fully co-operated with IDA thereby facilitating the
design of the project. The Borrower made a valuable contribution towards the implementation
methodology and the identification of risks both in the implementation and in sustainability.
Project Management Unit (PMU): The PMU has fulfilled the broad scope of its role PMU satisfactorily
after an initial period of familiarisation with IDA procedures. In addition, the performance of the PMU has
been constrained at times by factors outside its control e.g. lack of local funding for the project, s:ow
decision making within both IDA and the Government.
Implementation: Implementation of the project by the Borrower was hampered from time to time by:
Difficulties with co-ordination between project components
Delays in the start of work programmes caused by the failure of the Borrower to make counterpart funds
available in a timely manner
Inadequate supervision of consultants due to a lack of experienced counterpart personnel,
Procedural delays in the tendering process especially with respect to civil works, and
Changes in the project manager and the composition of the PMU
IDA Performance
IDA's performance was generally excellent, but affected by staff tumover at the start. It was consistent
with the Govemment's development strategy and IDA's assistance strategy for Tanzania. IDA also
maintained a proactive attitude in the opening of dialogues for the development and reform of the mineral
sector with: i) the Govermment, MEM and relevant institutions and agencies; ii) mineral associations,
NGO's and stakeholders; and iii) intemational agencies, cofmanciers, and bilateral agencies. In addition,
IDA maintained a good skill mix, and an excellent working relationship with the Borrower and related
agencies. The project preparation was also well organized, systematic, and satisfactory. During the
project appraisal, IDA assessed the risks and benefits of the project, and reflected them in the project
documentation. Some aspects of IDA performance are addressed in more detail as follows:
a) on relationships, at early project stages, at identification and pre-appraisal, a very close relationship
existed between IDA and the Borrower, but after project effectiveness, staff changes at IDA and MD teams
required a renewal of close working relationships, which were achieved and continued through project
closure. This excellent working relationship has been acknowledged at the highest levels in Tanzania;
b) on staff changes, while still in the early stages of implementation, the effectiveness and contributions
from headquarters was reduced by the combined effect from frequent task manager changes, and using
temporary task managers with little sectoral expertise;
c) on local staff, the IDA staff with project responsibility remained unchanged during implementation,
providing much needed continuity, and assistance to PMU staff and new task managers; and
d) on lessons leamed, the main lesson learned on the role of IDA concerned the significant advantages of: i)
maintaining continuity of staff on IDA's team, and ii) involving task managers familiar with technical
aspects of the project, or with successful experience in similar projects.
Project Implementation and Achievements.
Legal and regulatory framework
- 21 -



The regulatory framework for the sector was reviewed and new draft legislation was prepared in the earliest
stages of the project. Major achievements were:
*      The new Mining Law put in place an intemationally competitive legal and regulatory framework
designed to attract and sustain private investment, both local and foreign. The new law was enacted as the
Mining Act, 1998.
*      The regulations for the administration of the new mining code - Mining Regulations, 1999 - were
prepared and are now effective.
*      A new Model Mineral Investment Agreement was prepared.
*      A new fiscal regime for the sector was designed which provided an internationally competitive tax
structure while at the same time ensuring that Tanzania received an equitable share of the revenue both
through income related taxes and a royalty. This new fiscal regime was promulgated as the Financial Laws
(Miscellaneous Amendment) Act, 1997.
Environmental framework: Regulations for environmental protection associated with mining were
prepared and are now effective. However, the need both to establish an environmental management unit in
the Minerals Division (MD) and to prepare detailed guidelines and codes of practice for managing,
monitoring, compliance and enforcement of the regulations remain outstanding as of this date.
Sector administration: The institutional development impact of the project was substantial. The mandates,
responsibilities and functions of the institutions and agencies of the mineral sector were modernized, and
now are consistent with the role of the State as a regulator of mineral sector activity. Some key aims of the
project were to strengthen the ability of the Minerals Division (MD) of MEM to administer the sector, and
to rehabilitate the facilities and capacity of the Geological Survey located at Dodoma. The latter were
carried out under the project, and a revised structure for MD was developed as part of overall reform of the
civil service. However, while approved, the implementation of the new structure was delayed considerably,
due to project team changes, and fluctuating commitment from mineral authorities. Steady momentum was
regained from 2000 due to the fast growth of mining activities, which had over-extended the existing
institutional resources and capacity, making necessary to modemize the structure and capacity of MEM
and its mineral units.
The institutional capabilities were improved through reorganization, capacity building, and upgrading of
logistic capabilities. Consistent efforts were made to enable the reorganization, modemization and
sustainability of these institutions and agencies, in line with intemational best practice, while reflecting the
specific conditions of Tanzania. These consisted of functions, dimension, manpower, capacity building
through formal and on-the-job training, infrastructure through re-equipment and rehabilitation of offices,
purchase of data processing equipment and establishment of computerized databases, and gradual
decentralization through strengthening of regional offices, for administration of mining rights and
inspectorate responsibilities, also including environmental monitoring.
While the process of institutional reform was initiated late in the project implementation, its objectives
were achieved through two extensions of the credit closing date. It involved updated definition of
responsibilities, provision of resulting needs for capacity building, and supply of equipment needs.
Nevertheless, significant improvements in sector administration had already taken place. Most notably, the
backlog of over 2,000 license applications, which existed in 1994, had been cleared and revenue collection
has increased almost tenfold. The preparation of procedural manuals had been delayed pending completion
of the restructuring of MD, but has now been completed. The improvement of zonal offices was
downsized, to avoid over-extending further the physical and human resources of MRD, and to allow
dimensioning any further improvements on the basis of actual requirements related to the large-scale mines
- 22 -



and activities related to small-scale and artisanal miners. The existing offices have been made functional,
with equipment and capacity to carTy functions related to mineral rights, mines inspectorate, and provision
of extension services. However, while extensive training of MD staff has been completed, MD has
developed only a limited ability to critically analyze applications for mine development, assess mine
operations, and make realistic projections of government income for the sector.
Further reforn implementation is underway to complete: a) the modernization of policy and performance
monitoring at MEM; b) the modem administration of mineral rights with a comprehensive cadastre being
funded by NDF to handle large-scale, small-scale and artisanal miners; c) the establishment of an
Environmental Mining Unit for the evaluation of ELAs and environmental management, including
monitoring, compliance and enforcement in close coordination with the Ministry of Environment; d) the
expansion, maintenance and updating of mineral informations systems and databases, including intemet
interfaces.
However, it is recognized that civil service conditions, under which MEM and its agencies operate, might
become a source of staff turnover, affecting the continuity of services of staff trained under the project, and
quality of staff to be recruited in the future. In this connection, initial steps have recently been taken to
physically separate from MEM, and modularize to some extent the existing mining sector development
project unit, and a team responsible for developing and analyzing sectoral information. This is a positive
step, which reminds in a lower scale, the measures undertaken in Ghana during the 1980s, under relatively
similar circumstances, to separate and modularize the responsibilities for mineral sector development under
a Minerals Commission, which was specifically created for this purpose.
Geological database: The geological database has been substantially strengthened by the publication of
forty new geological maps. Regrettably only half of the planned output was timely due to quality
difficulties with drafts received from consultants. These maps were produced by traditional techniques,
which assured their publication, but which failed to train personnel in the latest technologies for map
production by digital methods. (Funding has been obtained from the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) to
introduce digital map production). While not directly funded by the project, the continuing programme of
building a minerals database was supported by the provision of new equipment. Good progress has been
made but much remains to be done, due to increasing amount of information, and growth of small scale
mining.
Minerals laboratory: Significant improvements were made to the Geological Survey laboratory under a
twinning contract with a foreign geological survey. Modem equipment and supplies were procured and
personnel received training. The laboratory is now in a position to carry out analyses of samples from the
operating mines on a routine basis. The NDF funded geochemical survey programme is expected to make
extensive use of these facilities.
Artisanal and small-scale mining: The general thrust of the Government towards artisanal and small-scale
mining is based around the encouragement of this activity in an environmentally acceptable manner as, if
properly administered, it contributes directly to poverty alleviation and the economic improvement of the
lives of over 500,000 people. It should be noted that women play a major role in this sub-sector as is
witnessed by the existence of the Tanzanian Women Miners Association (TAWOMA).
The small scale mining component of the project consisted of a number of sub-components including i)
completion of an inventory of existing small scale mining areas; ii) technical assistance to small scale
miners through the development of procedural manuals and regional demonstration centres; and iii)
development of the gemstone mining industry through training and establishment of a pilot gemstone
- 23 -



cutting/fabrication centre.
An inventory of small-scale mining sites in Tanzania was completed by a local consulting group. The
report is of very high quality and, in the opinion of both Govemment personnel and outside experts, is one
of the best reports yet produced on small-scale mining anywhere in the world. It has provided a base for all
further work related to the artisanal and small-scale sub-sector.
Technical assistance to the artisanal and small-scale miners, with the objective of improving their
productivity and lessening the environmental impact of their activities, has proceeded more slowly than was
planned. Nevertheless a number of procedures manuals, available in Swahili, have been developed and
published. While the issues of health and safety in small-scale mining were not explicitly addressed, the
new manuals and the training programmes are expected to significantly improve the health and safety
aspects.
The project design envisaged the establishment of eight demonstration plants in various regions of the
country for small-scale mining. However, only one of the proposed eight pilot-demonstration plants was
undertaken and completed due higher than anticipated costs, adoption of a phased approach, and delays in
procurement.
Investment promotion: The promotion of investment opportunities in the mineral sector in Tanzania has
been a key activity of the project. On the basis of the improved legal and regulatory framework, together
with the enhanced and more accessible geological database, the Govenmment undertook to promote the
unrecognized potential of the country as to demonstrate that Tanzania is a place to do business. The
programme consisted of written promotional materials followed up with a series of roundtables and a
strong presence at intemational mining seminars. Papers were prepared and presented at four intemational
conferences during the term of the project.
The promotion programme was extremely successful. Exploration expenditure in the country grew from
essentially nil in the early nineties to a peak of US$96 million in 1997. This surge in exploration following
sector reform has been followed by annual expenditures of about US$50 million in subsequent years. This
new exploration has substantially increased the proven mineral reserves of the country. The establishment
of over 42 million ounces of gold resources in the country is particularly significant and bodes well for the
future. Gold production has increased more than twenty fold since the inception of the project and further
new gold mines are expected to start production in the near future.
Indirect benefits: The project is providing many indirect benefits for Tanzania. While these cannot be
quantified in monetary terms they make an extremely important contribution to the economy.
Contractors are increasingly employing Tanzanians in many mineral sector activities such as drilling
services at the exploration stage to tyre servicing for the new mines. Local suppliers are increasingly
supplying the industry with goods, both local and foreign, needed to support mineral exploration, mine
development and mine operation. As planned, local consultants were utilised extensively and successfully
throughout the project.
The project has increased the skill level of many Tanzanians both by formal training and on-the-job
experience thus ensuring that the economic benefits of the mineral sector are shared by many.
Artisanal and small-scale miners have been exposed to modem equipment, which is more environmentally
friendly.
- 24 -



Both the exploration activities and the new mines have brought with them improved infrastructure not only
for the benefit of the mine but also for associated communities. The Geita-Mwanza area, with three new
gold mines operating is witnessing and taking opportunity of major improvements in employment
opportunities, new infrastructure, and growing demands.
A more recent example of this associated infrastructure improvement is well illustrated by the newly
opened Kahama mine. The associated improvements include:
Construction of a new 68 km road from the mine to the Kahama- Isaka road.
Construction of a 47 km water pipeline from Lake Victoria to the mine, which is providing water to
communities en route.
Construction of an electricity transmission line, which is providing power to surrounding communities.
Establishment of a new dispensary.
Upgrading of the Kahama hospital.
Construction of affordable housing in nearby villages.
Active involvement by the company in campaigns to combat HIV/AIDS and malaria.
Other indirect benefits have been improvements in services for the expatriate community both in Dar es
Salaam and in Mwanza. This is important if the Tanzanian mining sector is to attract and retain highly
skilled personnel - essential for a successful mining industry.
Sustainability: The sustainability of this project is satisfactory in most aspects but there are some
important risks for sustainability in others. Sustainability of project achievements must be addressed
periodically, and with increasing emphasis as implementation comes to a close. Sustainability is better
assured by early identification of the risks, assessment of the requirements to reduce them, and the early
development of action plans.
From the risk perspective, the long-term sustainability was recognized as a risk at project inception. the
President's Memorandum identified three main risks: i) the confidence of investors might not be acquired
during the project implementation and/or sustained after its completion; ii) the challenge of retaining
qualified and trained manpower over time in MD and the Geological Survey; and iii) the difficulty of
successful intervention in the small-scale and artisanal mining sub-sector. The first risks did not
materialize as evidenced by the flow of private funds, both foreign and local, for exploration and mine
development. The second risk has been realized as several skilled professionals have left the MD and the
Geological Survey for employment in the private sector. This clearly impacts on the efficient
administration of the reformed sector but, on the other hand, continues the process of improving the skills
of local professionals. The third risk, concerning interventions in the small-scale and artisanal sub-sector
has presented a challenge, but excellent progress is now being made, albeit late in the project time frame.
However, two additional risks to sustainability have emerged: i) fuiiding constraints for sector
administration; and ii) the need to build on some of the project tasks without IDA funding. Funding for the
requirements of MD was a significant problem early in the project, but has largely been overcome as
provision has been made for retention in MD of some of the funds being collected from the sector. Whether
or not funding will continue to be available in the required amounts is uncertain. The sustainability of the
new policy and achievements of the project need to be enhanced through continuing activities in manner
programmed to take stock of achievements, provide further in-depth follow-up on priority issues, and
address evolving constraints. Five main tasks lie ahead: a) capacity building at MD, as there remains a
lack of adequate skills and experience to ensure effective administration of the rapidly expanding mineral
sector; b) further intervention to build up on the component for small-scale and artisanal sub-sector,
- 25 -



extending to its many social dimensions. c) completion of institutional restructuring at MEM; d)
establishment of satisfactory regional monitoring capabilities; and e) civil works to rehabilitate main
regional offices.
From the perspective of requirements and recommendations: a) the Govemment should commence a
targeted and professionally managed information program as soon as possible, which disseminate
information about the benefits from mining to the country, making public that Tanzania is receiving its
fair share of financial and economic benefits from the mineral sector. This is highly important because
the prime requirements for the sustainability of project achievements are the consistent application of the
new mining policy by MD, with the support of political and stakeholder commitment. Political support
for the reforms that have taken place is currently strong but there are some indications of wavering
support as some parties feel that Tanzania is not receiving a fair share of the benefits on mineral
development; b) a continuing program of investment promotion should be instituted to make potential
investors fully aware of the potential of Tanzania. In turn, this will require a continual augmentation of
the geological database to further define exploration targets for promotion; c) the MD should continue to
strengthen its capability to administer the new regulatory framework for the mineral sector, as a vital
measure to increase the potential for sustainability Administration includes not only the capacity to carry
out monitoring of exploration and mining for compliance with license/lease requirements, but also to be
able to monitor health, safety, environmental and social aspects. It further requires that MD be able to
provide financial and economic projections regarding the sector to involved parties in the Government. It
is important that MD obtain continuing assistance to further strengthen these capabilities; d) a great deal
remains to be done in the small-scale mining sub-sector, despite the good progress made to improve its
conditions and performance. The Government should reassess all aspects of the needs of this sub-sector
and prepare a comprehensive program to development/regularization program based on the identified
priorities, and information developed in respect of pilot testing, administration during mine rushes, and
provision of extension services. The baseline survey completed under the project identified a number of
social issues, which were not addressed under the project; and e) further ways should be found to augment
the financial and economic benefits flowing directly to Tanzanians, which can derive from the mineral
sector. In this respect, consideration should be given to promote value-added activities such as gem-
cutting, carving and jewelry manufacture.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
In- I        lIndlcatorlMatix ' '. I                             -.P
Increased private investment in mining  Not applicable                         Achieved
Modemized legal and regulatory framework                                       Implemented
Improved administration and use of                                             Effective frameworks in operaton
regularoty framework by state mining
institutions and agencies
Incorporated to new mineral law
Formalized environment regulatory framework
for mining
Under implementation
Improved environment permitting,
management and control by MEM
Output Indicators:
-indicatorMatix D-                                     , rojeci, ActiiaULatestEsirnate'.                V
Institutional Strengthening
Design of improved setup for management of Not applicable                      Completed
mineral rights and environmental permits
Formalization of regulations and decrees to                                    Completed
establish required framework
Elimination of corporate functions of the State                                 Completed
Minng Corporation
Reorganization of Minerals Division and                                         Completed
Geological Survey
Technical Components
Conducting small-scale mining baseline                                          Completed
studies in Tanzania
Formulation of environmental management                                         Completed
master plan
Completed
Publicaton of geological maps
Completed
Establishing a computerized mineral cadastre
management systm for large scale mines
End of project
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million  US$ million
A. Legal, Regulatory Fiscal and Environmental
Framework
Consultant & Training                              0.98           0.88           90.53
Equipment & Document Production                    0.15           0.06             44
B. Institutional Strengthening
Consultant & Training                              2.84           3.06          107.92
Equipment, Tools & map printing                     2.52           2.09          82.97
Incremental operating costs                        0.66            1.37         208.78
Civil works                                         0.42           1.05           360
C. Small Scale Mining
Consultant & Training                               1.01           1.74         167.69
Equipment & Materials                               1.90           1.74           85.4
D. Project Management and Administration
Consultant                                          0.60           0.06          108.3
Equipment & office accomodation, Operating & staff  0.62           0.49          109.4
cost
Total Baseline Cost                                 11.70          12.54
Physical Contingencies                              2.20
Total Project Costs             13.90          12.54
Total Financing Required             13.90          12.54
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB                       N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB      ~Other
1. Works                     0.00          0.72         0.52         0.00         1.24
(0.00)       (0.51)        (0.50)       (0.00)       (1.01)
2. Goods                     3.78          0.00                      0.00         3.78
(3.70)       (0.00)          Q          (0.00)       (3.70)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Consulting, Training      0.27          0.00         5.99         0.00         6.26
and Education Material
(0.24)       (0.00)        (5.69)       (0.00)       (5.93)
5. Operating Cost            0.00          0.00         2.37                      2.37
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.61)       (0.00)       (1.61)
6. Refunding of PPF          0.00          0.00         0.25         0.00         0.25
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.25)       (0.00)       (0.25)
Total                     4.05          0.72         9.13          0.00        13.90
l ________________________ ~  (3.94)      (0.51)       (8.05)   1   (0.00)       (12.50)
- 28 -



Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICBCB B                    Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00           0.83          0.00         0.00          0.83
(0.00)        (0.11)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.1 1)
2. Goods                        0.68          0.00          2.19          0.00         2.87
(0.68)        (0.00)        (2.19)        (0.00)       (2.87)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Consulting, Training         1.61          1.47          3.90          0.00         6.98
and Education Material
(1.61)        (1.25)        (3.90)        (0.00)       (6.76)
5. Operating Cost               0.00          0.00          1.86          0.00         1.86
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.86)        (0.00)       (1.86)
6. Refunding of PPF            0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        2.29          2.30          7.95          0.00         12.54
(2.29)        (1.36)        (7.95)        (0.00)       (11.60)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Sub-Component (in USS million equivalent)
,, :  ,L              <        , fij ;;  i,;,^ |  t  , ,  -  *J! ;; :  |Percentage of Appraisal
Sub-Component           Appraisial Estimate,        Actual/Latest Estfma6 ,
Bank '_   Gov       CoF.     Bank; L  . GovtL'. j ,CoF.| Bank   Govt| CoF.
Civil Works              0.42     0.21                0.11      0.21              26.2  100.0
Equipment & Materials    3.81     0.08                2.85      0.73              74.8  912.5
Consultancy & Training   4.92      0.32               6.76      0.00              137.4  0.0
Incremental Operating    1.14      0.76               1.86      0.00              163.2  0.0
Costs
- 29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                    Progress      Objective
ldentification/Preparation
June6/1993                  2   Operations Off./Mining Spec.
Appraisal/Negotiation
Jan/1994                    2   Operations Off. Mining
Spec.
April/1994                  I   Operations Off./Mining Spec.
Supervision
Oct./S1994                  I    I Mining Specialist               S            S
Feb/95                      I   I Mining Specialist               S             S
Sept/95                     2   1 Mining Specialist, I            S             S
Operations Officer
Jan/96                      I   I Mining Specialist                S            S
July/96                     1    I Mining Specialist               S            S
Nov./96                     I    I Mining Specialist               S            S
Feb/97                      2   1 Mining Specialist, I             S            S
Operations Officer
Nov/97                      2    1 Mining Specialist, I            S            S
Operations Officer
Feb/98                      2   1 Mining Specialist, I             S            S
Operations Officer
March/98                    I    I Mining Specialist               S            S
June/99                     I    I Mining Specialist               S            S
Aug/00                      I    I Mining Specialist               S            S
Dec/00                      I   I Mining Specialist                S            S
Feb/OI                      I    I Mining Specialist               S            S
June/01                     1    I Mining Specialist               S             S
Nov/01                       I   I Mining Specialist               S             S
ICR
Feb/2002                    1    Mining Specialist                 S             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              49.1                       167.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                   24.6                        85.0
Supervision                            151.4                       559.9
ICR                                      8.0                        40.0
Total                                  233.1                       852.7
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                         0 H  * SU O M    O N  0 NA
LI Sector Policies                       * H  OSUOM       O N  0 NA
L Physical                               0 H  *SUOM       0 N  O NA
L Financial                              O H  * SU 0 M    0 N  O NA
L Institutional Development              0 H  * SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                          OH   * SUOM      O N  O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction               O H   *SUOM      0 N   O NA
L Gender                          O H   * SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
L Other (Please specify)          0 H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
L Private sector development             * H  O SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
Li Public sector management              0 H  * SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                 O H  O SU O M    O N  0 NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                          OHS Os       OU     OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U    O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
El Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS      O U    O HU
L Overall                                           OHS OS       O U    O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Memorandum of the President for the Tanzanian Mining Sector Development TA Project, dated June
14, 1994 (Report No. P-62760);
2. Credit Agreement for the Tanzanian Mining Sector Development TA Project, signed September 23,
1994 (Credit 2648-TA);
3. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and PSRs;
4. Project Quarterly Progress Reports from April, 1995 to April 2002;
5. Project Annual Reports from 1995-2002
6. Project Annual Audit Reports from 1995-2002
7. Various Reports on Workshops, Seminar and Roundtable discussions;
8. Consultants Study Reports under the project, available as open files and tabulated below, as per project
component and subcomponent.
- 34 -



*. MA~    Bu  I.N                                       A L 3MI  TANZANIA
_/  1 /  Bukoba'. _JI  ,c;/MINERAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
41.   :2*-             TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
RWANDA          |       .y                 __         tToah
ENYA                     ~~~~~~~~PRODUCING MINE OR PLANT:
1 Williamson Diamonds
2 N X.,           C              s\ 0      <KENYA                                              2 C2oastal Salt
BURUNDI J             I-+ t        L , ,, .,   o Le .1rs Arusha / thl t          /              3    Nyanza Salt
I +; < ^ - Saratut iX ~ _ S_t / 4 Pugo Kaolm
TO                                                                                                               5  Kiwira Coal
ujmbr                                                       Mpuku r_yoo2 |G A;s  nl p ebv 1 1   C o      d
/     C             ~~~~~~+ OTHER PROJECTS-
ng aS( R -,                                   l1 Kahama Gold
Tabo                                                      ngundories,  col,            lake Natron Soda Ash
PL-mba      ~~~3 Kagera Nickel (BHP)
Island          4  Tanex (De Beers)
ThAreas Prospective in Gold
Barge Movement
Main Roads
ar                                                                                                           ________kaSecondary Roads
Railroads
Nib"                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
ZAMBIA           akam a o                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Selected Towvns
or oceptnce f suh _A,                                                                      IN IA
OCEAN ~~~      Region Capitals
National Capital
The  boundaries,  colors,                                                      (                                    Region Boundaries
denominations and  any                                                                                              Itnta Boundaries
other information  shawmtaaInentoalBudre
on  this  map  do  not   MLS0       5     (              e
imply,  on  the  port of  MLS 0     5     O             oie
The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal  KILOMETERS  0  50  100  150  200
status of any territory,
or any endorsement
or acetnce of such
boudre
MB7AAIQUE11









IMAGING
Report No.:         24382
Type:     lCR



