Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2648 TA
                       Development Credit Agreement
         (Mineral Sector Development Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                        UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated September 23, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2648 TA
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 1994, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a latter dated May 6, 1994,
from the Borrower describing its policies and strategy for the development
of the mineral sector (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      (C)   the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
Page  2
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MWEM" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water, Energy and
Minerals;
      (b)   "MRD" means the Mineral Resource Department of MWEM;
      (c)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter
dated May 24, 1993, from the Association to the Borrower and countersigned
by the Borrower on June 9, 1993;
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (e)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04
of this Agreement; and
      (f)   "TSh or Tanzanian Shilling" means the Borrower's currency.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million nine
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
Page  3
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15,
2004, and ending June 15, 2034. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on June 15, 2014, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through MWEM with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
mineral sector practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Page  4
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1995, take all
necessary measures to modify the legal, regulatory, environmental and fiscal
framework for the mineral sector.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain a project account with a commercial bank and, on a
quarterly basis, deposit therein the Tanzanian Shilling equivalent of
$65,000.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
                  out of the Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall until completion of the Project: (a)
provide an adequate operations and maintenance budget for MRD; and (b)
Page  5
prepare and furnish to the Association by June 30 in each year, a rolling
three-year budgetary framework for MRD's capital and recurrent expenditures.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part
thereof, will be carried out.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any event
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has
opened the Project Account referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement and
deposited therein the Tanzanian Shilling equivalent of $65,000.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 9111
            Dar es Salaam
            Tanzania
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  TREASURY                  41329
                  Dar es Salaam
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
Page  6
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                        By /s/ Charles Nyirabu
                        Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                        Regional Vice President
                        Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 420,000        70%
(2)  Vehicles, equipment,                       100% of foreign
     furniture, tools                           expenditures and
     and materials:                             80% of local
                                                expenditures
     (a) for Parts C.2           630,000
         and C.4 of the
         Project
     (b) for the other         1,910,000
         parts of the
         Project
(3)  Consultants'                               100% of foreign
     services and                               expenditures and
     training:                                  90% of local
                                                expenditures
     (a) for Parts C.2           630,000
         and C.4 of the
         Project
     (b) for the other         2,680,000
         parts of the
         Project
(4)  Incremental                 990,000        60%
     operating costs
(5)   Refunding of               170,000        Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated              1,470,000
                               _________
    TOTAL                      8,900,000
Page  7
                               =========
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and
    (c)   "incremental operating costs" means expenditures incurred for (i)
rent, utilities, communication, staff emolument, vehicle operating and
maintenance costs under Part B.6 of the Project, and (ii) vehicle operating
and maintenance costs and field per diem under Part B of the Project.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures
under Categories (2) (a) and (3) (a) until the Borrower has analyzed the
results of the Baseline Survey, referred to in Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and put in place detailed implementation procedures,
satisfactory to the Association, including the eligibility criteria,
accounting and monitoring arrangements for the technology demonstration
scheme.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for (i) goods and works not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (ii)
services not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and (iii) incremental operating
costs regardless of value, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to expand mineral based industries of
Tanzania through private sector investment.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Legal, Regulatory and Fiscal and Environmental
          Framework
1.  Establishment of a legal, regulatory and fiscal framework conducive to
private mining investment, improved environmental control and efficient
sector management, through:
    (a)   carrying out a review and analysis of existing laws and
regulations relating to mining and mining investment;
    (b)   drafting of appropriate new or amended legislation and
regulations, and reviewing the model mineral investment agreement;
    (c)   preparation of detailed operational manuals and guidelines for use
by MRD staff, other government agencies and current and future investors and
operators; and
    (d)   carrying out of appropriate training programs for MRD and other
government staff on the new legal, regulatory and fiscal framework.
2.  Establishment of an environmental framework for mining through:
    (a)   carrying out an inventory and quantitative analysis of existing
environmental liabilities;
Page  8
    (b)   preparation of appropriate regulations setting out the required
standards for the sector;
    (c)   designing the institutional procedures and arrangements to monitor
and enforce regulations; and
    (d)   preparation of a detailed operational manual and training of a
small core of MRD staff on environmental management.
Part B:   Institutional Strengthening of MRD
1.  Strengthening MRD's field operations through the carrying out of
Priority Work Programs in three most urgent areas, namely,  effective mine
safety and environmental inspection, updating of mineral rights data and
improved mineral rights registration procedures, and increased mineral
revenue collection.
2.  Strengthening of MRD's Geological Services through the provision of:
    (a)   technical experts and staff training;
    (b)   equipment and materials for the rehabilitation of the cartographic
unit and for the publication of geological maps;
    (c)   equipment and materials for the rehabilitation of MRD's mineral
laboratory;
    (d)   maintenance of the data base unit of MRD; and
    (e)   dissemination of sector data to the investors.
3.  Strengthening of MRD's organizational structure and staff training
through:
    (a)   the restructuring of MRD involving: (i) streamlining the mineral
licensing procedures; (ii) restructuring the functions of the Geology
Division towards concentrating on providing basic geological information and
maps, systematically compiling geological information and monitoring of
prospecting activities by companies; and (iii) creating two new sections
under the Mines Division, to cover the Environment and Extension Services;
    (b)   Professional manpower development and staff training through: (i)
retraining of a limited number of MRD staff to acquire mine engineering
skills and upgrading the skills of a limited number of mine engineers; (ii)
refresher training of mining technicians; (iii) specialized subject-matter
training in such areas as environmental management, gemology and gemstone
marketing, organizational and technology aspects of artisanal and small-
scale mining and computer skills; and (iv) management level training in
policy, institutional and legal aspects of mineral sector administration,
and in the international investment and trade climate;
    (c)   formulation of a career development program for major career
streams and skill groups in MRD.
4.  Acquisition of vehicles, motorcycles, field and office equipment,
including communications gear and computers.
5.  Construction of about twenty field offices for MRD, in areas where there
are intensive artisanal or small-scale mining activities.
6.  Establishment of a Project management unit in the office of the
Commissioner of MRD.
Part C:   Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining
1.  Carrying out a baseline survey to provide reliable quantitative
information on the current position and performance of the artisanal and
small-scale mining activities.
2.  Carrying out a pilot program to promote artisanal miner's awareness of
simple and environmentally sensitive mining and mineral processing
techniques, through dissemination of relevant information and technology
Page  9
demonstration.
3.  Strengthening small miners and mineral traders associations through:
    (a)   study tours for MRD officials and representatives of miners
associations to African countries with substantial small-scale mining
sector;
    (b)   (i) reviewing and strengthening the legal, administrative and
financial aspects of existing miners associations on a regional and national
level; and (ii) team building and training workshops at the regional and
national levels on the implementation of recommendations from (i) above;
    (c)   establishment of a library on gemology and colored gemstones
marketing, installation of a small gemological laboratory and conducting
short courses on economic gemology, colored stone valuation, enhancement
techniques, and marketing; and
    (d)   training and extension services for lapidary development.
4.  Building training capabilities through:
    (a)   (i) designing of short courses to be conducted by major Regional
Miners' Associations aimed at providing the knowledge required to obtain
basic understanding of the legal and regulatory framework, technological and
environmental requirements; (ii) training of qualified members of Regional
Miners' Associations to become trainers; and (iii) establishment of training
facilities at major Regional Miners' Associations; and
    (b)   (i) designing a training program in basic principles of business
administration for small mine operators; and (ii) identification of local
training organizations qualified to undertake such courses.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed priced contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  10
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the United Republic of Tanzania
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Works for the construction of MRD's field office blocks, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part E:   Pre-shipment Inspection
    For the purposes of the pre-shipment inspection of goods imported under
the Project, no price verification shall be conducted in respect of those
goods to which Part A of this Section applies.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
Page  11
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Commissioner of Mineral Resources shall be responsible for
overseeing and coordinating Project implementation activities and for
dealing with accounting, procurement and disbursement matters, including:
(a) administering project funding and procurement processing and managing
Project Accounts and the Special Account, (b) overseeing project
implementation activities by various line divisions of MRD and coordinating
Project activities with other ministries, agencies and institutions; (c)
following up on implementation, and compliance with covenants and financial
provisions, and (d) providing periodic Project progress reports. To assist
the Commissioner three positions (a Project manager, technical assistant and
Accountant) shall be established.
2.  (a)   Part C of the Project shall be carried out by MRD through an
Artisanal and Small-scale Mining Office to be established in MRD. The Office
shall be responsible for planning, research, supervision and monitoring
activities for the development of the artisanal and small-scale mining
sector.
    (b)   To ensure proper coordination with MRD and with other ministries
and agencies a special task force and a steering committee shall be
established in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Association: (i) the special task force, shall ensure that the expertise
instrumental to efficient program implementation is available and shall be
comprised of the following MRD staff, a senior principal mining engineer,
senior principal inspector of mines, senior principal economic geologist,
senior principal mineral processing engineer and zonal mines officers; and
(ii) the Program Steering Committee shall be a multi-disciplinary body
comprised the following, the Commissioner of Mineral Resources as Chairman,
the Assistant Commissioner, Mineral Trade Division as Deputy Chairman,
Assistant Commissioners of the Mines Division, Geology Division and Research
and Laboratory Division, as well as senior representatives of the Planning
Commission, Department of Environment and the Investment Promotion Agency,
and shall provide the strategic leadership and act as a controlling and
advisory board for the Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining Development Office.
3.  The Borrower shall designate appropriate counterpart personnel of MRD,
prior to the commencement of any consultant assignment under the Project.
4.  The Borrower shall, by June 30 in each year, review with the Association
progress in the implementation of the Priority Work Programs under Part B.1
of the Project.
5.  (a)   The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1996, carry out
jointly with the Association, a mid-term review of the Project. The purposes
of such review shall be to: (i) conduct a comprehensive assessment of
progress in the implementation of the Project; (ii) assess progress made by
the Borrower in modifying the legal, regulatory, environmental and fiscal
framework; (iii) assess the impact of the Borrower's Civil Service Reform
program on MRD; and (iv) assess the implementation of a user charge scheme
covering MRD's geological mapping and mineral laboratory services.
    (b)   At least two months prior to such review, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Association a report on the above.
Page  12
    (c)   Promptly after the completion of the mid-term review referred to
in subparagraph of this paragraph, the Borrower shall take all necessary
actions to implement the recommendations emanating from such review.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Page  13
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
