FILE         C                  CIRCUUTING copy
DOCUMENT OF 1NA1AT?(5K1A%Ni5Ev(tE                SOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1445 a-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 13, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00                     = 2.07 Ethiopia Dollars (Eth.$)
Eth.$ 1.00                   = us$ o.48
Eth.$ 1 million              = US$ 480,0oo
Government of Ethiopia
Fiscal Year
July 8 - July 7



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
FOR A
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Empire of Ethiopia for the equivalent of US$10.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for drought re-
habilitation.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Recent Economic Performance and Future Prospects in
Ethiopia", Report No. 9-ET, (R73-162) was circulated on June 15, 1973. An
economic updating mission was carried out in December 1973. A basic
economic mission is scheduled for FY 1975. Anniex I contains country data.
3.        Ethiopia is classified by the UN as one of the 25 least developed
countries of the world. The per capita income was only US$80 in 1971 and in-
come has been growing slowly in recent years. The population is predominantly
rural and depends on agriculture&for its income. The agriculture sector has
contributed 50 to 60 percent of GDP and over 90 percent of exports in recent
years. The leading exports are coffee, which accounts for over 50 percent of
the total, hides And skins, pulses, and oilseeds. Manufacturing, including
handicrafts and small industries, contributes only 10 percent of GDP, and the
output of the mining sector is negligible.
4.        Lying between the heart of Africa and the Ret Sea, Ethiopia has
a total land area of slightly more than 1.2 million km ,almost twice the
size of Kenya. The country consists of a central highland mass with rug-
ged mountains and precipitous ravines surrounded by lowlands, some of which
are barren deserts. The extremely difficult topography which in former
times provided a natural barrier to invasion is today an obstacle to in-
ternal transportation, communication, and economic development.
5.        An estimated 85 to 90 percent of the people are subsistence farmers
living in isolated rural villages. Although some large commercial farms do
exist, most farming units are small. A recent survey in one province
showed that 92 percent of the cultivated holdings were of less than one
hectare. Agricultural productivity is in general very low. Methods of culti-
vation used by most farmers have changed little over many centuries, the
soils in many highland areas are seriously depleted from prolonged over-
grazing and overcropping, and the prevailing systems of land tenure generally
do not provide adequate incentives for investments which would raise farmers'
productivity. As a consequence, there has been little or no improvement in



- 2 -
rural living standards in recent years. The development of agriculture
is also inhibited by the lack of tiansportation. There are few secondary
and rural feeder roads, and perhaps three-fourths of Ethiopia's farms
are more than one-half day's walking distance from a road. This means
that transport costs are often too high to make it profitable for sub-
sistence farmers to expand production for the market. Difficult though
the development of agriculzure may be, the lack of other resources per
force means that progress in developing the Ethiopian economy rests almost
entirely on developing agriculture.
o.        The Ethiopian population of approximately 26.5 million (mid-1973
estimate) is heavily concentrated in the youngest age groups, with 45
percent under the age of 15. As a result of this age distribution, the
proportion of the population which is economically active is relatively low
and the dependency ratio is correspondingly high. Average life expectancy
at birth is only 39. The urban population presently comprises less than
10 percent of the total but it is growing at an estimated rate of 6.5 percent
per annum. At this rate the urban population will rise from 2.3 million in
1970 to almost 6 million by 1985. While there are no available data on
employment, it is evident that opportunities in the towns have not kept
pace with the supply of workers with the resr.lt that urban unemployment
is growing. There is also significant undertmployment in both the rural
and urban areas. Fragmentary evidence suggests that maldistribution of
income has increased in recent years. Although data on wages are scanty,
they suggest that the incomes of agricultural laborers and unskilled
w'orkers in general have been virtually stagnant at a low level. The slow
growth of agriculture where the majority of the people are engaged, the
unchanging rural wage, and rising unemployment are indications of a
worsening of income distribution.
7.        While enrollment in government primary schools has risen at an
average rate of 11 percent per annum over the last 15 years, only about 20
percent of primary school age children (ages 7-12) were enrolled in 1973-74.
Only about 5 percent of the secondary school age population attends school,
and the adult literacy rate is estimated to be only 7 percent. Inequality
of educational opportunities between rural and urban areas remains a
se,ious problem and achievements in the special adult literacy program lag
sul.qtantially behind targets. Thus, despite creditable efforts on the part
of the government, overall educational attainment remains low in comparison
w-ith the rest of Africa and the developing world in general.  Hopes for
more rapid and far-reaching development in education are based on the 1972
Education Sector Review that was carried out by the Ethiopian Government
with Eank support. This report calls for a departure from the present
acadeuTiic, urban-oriented pattern of education to one that will emphasize
education for rural development, and thus be more relevant to the socio-
economic needs of the country.



- 3 -
8.        Ethiopia's First and Second Development Plans gave priority to
the development of infrastructure and to the establishment of manufacturing
industries (mainly government financed) based on import substitution. The
Third Five Year Plan (FY 1969-73) emphasized more balanced development of
agriculture and industry, and the Fourth Five Year Plan (FY 1975-79) is ex-
pected to give Increased attention to agriculture, rural education, and to
other activities such as feeder roads which will directly support agricul-
tural development. During the past two decades, the government has made
efforts to accelerate the pace of development by controlling expenditures
on defense, increasing expenditures on education, introducing some new
taxes, including an agricultural income tax, and improving the effective-
ness of the public service. However, these efforts are only a beginning,
and progress to date has generally fallen short of objectives. Institutions
are changing slowly, and the modest pace of institutional change has
inhibited economic growth. Additional constraining factors have been
the balance of payments (slow growth of export earnings and limited
foreign capital inflows), inadequate levels of domestic savings, and
low absorptive capacity.
9.        During the period 1961-1971, the GDP grew at an average rate of
4.7 percent per year in real terms. However, during the first four years
of the Third Five Year Plan (FY 1969-72), the average rate of growth was only
4.1 percent, well below the target of 6 percent. With population growing
at an estimated 2.4 percent per year, growth in per capita incomes
has been low, varying from 2.5 percent per year in the early 1960's to 2
percent or less in recent years (as compared to the Third Plan target of
3.5 percent). It was against this background of sluggish growth that
the Government decided in 1971 to extend the Third Plan by one year to
July 1974 and to reduce the target rate of growth to 5.5 percent.
10.       A principal cause of slow growth in GDP during the first four
years of the Third Plan was the slow expansion of agricultural production
and export earnings, particularly from coffee. During 1968-71, export
earnings increased by only 5.6 percent per year compared to the Plan target
of 8 percent. With export prices rising at 3.7 percent per year, export
volume was growing at a disappointing rate of less than 2 percent. In
1972 and 1973, the picture was brighter, due to higher prices for Ethiopia's
traditional exports of coffee, hides and skins, oilseeds and pulses, and
to a lesser extent, to increases in the volume of goods exported. Total
exports of goods and nonfactor services increased from $190 million in
1971 to $247 million in 1972 and to $347 million in 1973, while imports
rose more slowly    (from $232 million in 1971 to $237 million in 1972 and
to $278 million in 1973) due to the sluggishness of the domestic economy.
Largely because of these trade surpluses, net foreign exchange reserves
increased from $51 million at the end of 1971 to slightly over $200
million at the end of 1973. The medium range balance of payments forecast
was favorable until the recent increases inpetroleum prices and the
attendant increases in the cost of fertilizers, chemicals, and other
intermediate goods. While it appears that Ethiopia will be able to
meet the added cost of petroleum imports in the short run, despite



-4-
an increase from about $lb million in 1971 and 1972 to an estimated $50-60
million in 1974, the longer run picture is uncertain. The latest commodity
price forecasts imply that Ethiopia's export prices will rise by 116 percent
between 1973 and 1985 while her import prices will rise by 176 percent. This
substantial deterioration in the terms of trade could lead to a reversal of
recent current account surpluses. On the other hand, supply response to con-
tinued high levels of export prices could result in a sustained growth in the
value of total exports. In this regard, the agricultural sector survey report,
No. PA - 143a (R73-77) of January 15, 1973, concluded that Ethiopia's poten-
tial to increase such agricultural exports as meat products, hides and skins,
pulses and oilseeds is favorable. There are also possibilities for exports
of selected manufactures if adequate incentives are created.
11.       Another reason for the disappointing growth performance of the
Ethiopian economy during the Third Plan has been the failure to reach in-
vestment goals for both the public and private sectors. The investment
rate increased from 12 percent in 1961 to 14.5 percent in 1968, but has
since fallen slightly. Similarly, the share of domestic savings in GDP
increased from 11 percent in 1961 to 12.5 percent in 1968, but has fallen
below 12 percent in more recent years. Central government capital expendi-
tures averaged Eth$105 million over the first five years of the plan, as
compared with an initial plan objective of Eth$190 million a year.
Despite this shortfall, the government has made a commendable effort to
increase its investment budget, which has risen from Eth$65 million in
FY69 to Eth$129 million in FY73.
12.       The public investment program has been expanding somewhat faster
than budget savings, which rose from Eth$35 million in FY69 to Eth$86
million in FY73. As a result the proportion of capital expenditures fi-
nanced by this source has fallen slightly, and the dependence of the central
government on foreign borrowing has been increasing. Net foreign loans and
credits accounted for 35 percent of capital expenditures in FY71 and
FY72, and were expected to finance approximately 50 percent of the capital
budget in FY74. The sources of public capital inflows to Ethiopia during
the past decade are shown on page 4 of Annex I. These data indicate that
the Bank/IDA share of this flow has increased from about 25 percent in
1962-65 to about 35 percent in 1966-69 and to about 40 percent in 1970-72.
To assist Ethiopia in obtaining additional external assistance, the
Bank has sponsored a Consultative Group of aid donors. The second
meeting of the Group, under the Bank's Chairmanship, was held in July
1973.
13.       Although Ethiopia has not reached its economic targets during the
current development plan period, economic performance has been relatively
good considering the constraints which the country faces. Particularly
noteworthy have been the increased levels of budgetary savings and of de-
velopmental expenditures which have been attained despite the slow growth
of GDP. At the same time, Ethiopia needs and deserves as much external fi-
nancial support as can be provided. The country has attracted only modest
amounts of private capital, and therefore depends heavily on public capital



- 5 -
inflows. Unlike many other African countries which were formerly de-
pendent, E&:hiopia has no traditional source of technical and financial help.
Annual gross public capital inflows have been only about US$1.32 per capita
over the past five years. Very few developing countries receive so little
aid on a per capita basis. For this reason, a relatively high level of per
capita assistance from the Bank Group is justified. Because of Ethiopia's
poverty, it is desirable that future inflows should be provided to the great-
est extent possible on concessionary terms. Furthermore, because Ethiopia's
domestic resources fall far short of the amounts needed to ensure reasonable
growth, it is appropriate that those who provide external resources should
cover a large proportion of the cost of projects, including local costs.
The Bank Group is presently financing an average of 75 percent of project
costs in Ethiopia.
14.       Considering Ethiopia's poverty, Bank. Group lending should be pro-
vided on IDA terms to the greatest extent possible. The debt service ratio
for Ethiopia was 11.5 percent in 1970, but because of the strong export per-
formance ot the past two years, the ratio has declined to below 8 percent in
1973. If the external capital needed to support a growth rate of GDP of b
percent were to be obtained on conventional terms, the debt service ratio
would probably rise to 10 percent by 1980. Ethiopia can, therefore, support
some Bank lending, and particularly in the light of the limited availability
of IDA funds and the small amount of assistance expected from other sources,
such lending would be both desirable and appropriate.
15.       Presently a serious drought and famine situation exists in Ethiopia.
While Tigre and Wollo Provinces have thus far been hardest hit, it is becoming
clear that the drought is more widespread than previously thought, and has
dealt the country a serious economic blow. To date, it has not been possible
to tuantify the economic impact, or to project the effect on the development
effort. The effects are, however, unouestionably grave. With adequate rain-
fall and a maximum effort, it will take perhaps as long as three to five years
for agriculture to reach pre-drought levels of production.
16.       In recent months, there have been political and economic disturbances
in Ethiopia, resulting in the resignation of the former Government at the end
of February. Riots over the rising cost of living and wage and salary demands
have forced the newly appointed Government to reduce certain indirect taxes,
to introduce price controls on foodstuffs and other basic commodities, to
raise the minimum wage by approximately 200 percent, and to grant substantial
pay increases to Government employees, including the police, armed forces and
teachers. It is not entirely clear to what extent the recent political events
demonstrate a demand for fundamental social reform or only discontent over the
immediate economic issues of prices and wages. Nor is it clear whether the
peasants, who are the mass of the people, have formed or articulated political
demands. It is evident,nevertheless, that the Government is treating the new
situation as an opportunity for change, and is attempting to take the initi-



- 6 -
ative to promote land, education, and other social reforms, and to accele-
rate economic development. The present leaders of the military, who are
reported to be from the lower ranks, have e2:pressed their intention to
support the cabinet and to give it an opportunity to effect its program.
Realistically, however, the Government's ability to enact reform and speed
development is linted by Ethiopia's limited resources, same of which are
being diverted to meet the pay and other concessions the Government was
forced to give to the armed forces, teachers anid other striking elements
and by the fact that the achievement of significant increases in produc-
tivity and income cannot be realized quicklj. Thus, it remains to be
seen whether this Government will be able t) accelerate the pace of
modernization and development, or enhance tile prospects for it, sufficiently
to win the confidence of the people. It seems fair to say that although
the present situation contains the risk that further turbulance may dis-
rupt effective government and normal economic activity, there may well be
emerging a situation more conaducive to economic and social progress than
has prevailed hitherto.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPaA
17.       From 1950 to the prnsent, Bank Group lending in Ethiopia has
totalled $266 million, comprised of fifteen IDA credits totaling
$158 million and twelve Bank loans totaling $109 million. Additionally,
the IFC has made five commitments in Ethiopia totaling $15.8 million.
Well over one-third of the amount of lending ($102.5 million) was com-
mitted in the last two years. In addition to the substantial increase
in the size of its operations in the last two years, the Bank Group has
softened its terms to Ethiopia; all but $10.8 million of 1Y72's
$49.5 million program and all of FY73's $53 million program were IDA
credits.
18.       Through 1969, our help concentrated primarily on assistiag the
construction of trunk roads, p'wer and telecommunication facilities.     In
the late 1960's, our program shifted in emphasis to agriculture and educa-
tion, and in the past four years, we have, made seven credits for agricul-
tural development totalling $60.2 million ($43 million in FY 73) and two
credits for education totalling $19.5 million. In addition, in 1972, we
made a $17 million credit for transportation with emphasis on the construc-
tion of agricultural feeder roads. This program reflects the increased
opportunity for agricultural lending brought about by improved sectoral
knowledge, and the heavier emphasis on agriculture and education in the
Government's priorities. This shift has been greatly assisted by the Bank's
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA), which has played a major role
in project identification and preparation in the agriculture sector.



-7-
19.       While the necessity for Parliamentary ratification tends to
cause delays in meeting the conditions of effectiveness, implementation
is generally good and there are no major implementation problems. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1974, and notes on the execution of on-going
projects.
20.       In addition to its lending program, the Bank is pursuing a
number of activities to support the Government's development strategy.
As already mentioned, a mission visited Ethiopia to make a comprehensive
study of the agriculture sector. The Ethiopian Government, with IDA
assistance, undertook a fundamental review of the education sector to
enable it to design a :aew strategy for educational development. The
Bank is executing agency for the UNDP project which is providing a team
of experts to help the Government in improving its planning, and the
Bank has supplied advisors in project identification and preparation to
the Planning Commission and the Ministry of Agriculture.
21.       Because Ethiopia has no traditional sources of development assis-
tance, a relatively high level of per capita assistance from the Bank Group
is justified. Lending to Ethiopia increased during FY72-74 and further
expansion of the lending program is planned for the future. Since the
economy is essentially agricultural and because agriculture offers the
greatest opportunities for development and for achieving improved income
distribution and employment, the main thrust of our lending program will
be in that sector. A second sector of priority is the education sector
where, as a result of the IDA assisted sector review, the Government is
planning major investment as part of a program to change the structure of
the system to make education more relevant to development and more ecuit-
ably available. Given the inadeouate infrastructure of the country, and
the low level of foreign and domestic capital available for investment,
we shall also continue to provide some assistance to the development of
other sectors, and to investment in the infrastructure which is necessary to
support development. In order to relieve the constraint caused by Ethiopia's
limited capacity to prepare and implement projects, especially in education
and agriculture, we intend to continue providing technical assistance to
beneficiary institutions so that they will be able to utilize larger in-
flows of assistance. In our lending for infrastructure, we plan to con-
tinue lending to such institutions as the Imperial Highway Authority (IHA),
the Imperial Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia (IBTE), and the
Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority (EELPA). These are insti-
tutions with which the Bank has worked for some years and which now have
substantial capacity for channelling resources into development programs.
22.       The FY74 lending program consists of a credit of $21.4 million
for a telecommunications project approved in January, the proposed project
and the Second Wolamo project being presented to the Executive Directors
at the same time. For FY75 and FY76, there is a sizeable pipeline of pro-
iects at various stages of preparation.   Negotiations have been completed
for a $9.5 million credit for a Lower Adiabo Development Project. Several
of the upcoming projects will be follow-ups to ongoing projects and others



-8-
will be breaking new ground. Included in the first category will be a third
livestock project, a sixth highway project, follow-up credits for the
Humera, and Coffee projects and for the Agricultural and Industrial Develop-
ment Bank (AIDB) and the seconi tranche of the Fifth Telecommunications
Project. Included in the second category are proposals for a grain
storage and marketing project, and several regional agricultural projects.
The education sector is:-another priority for Bank lending, and we hope
to present a fourth education project for your consideration in the next
year.
23.       During 1970-72, the Bank and IDA contributed 39 percent of gross
inflows of official loans. This saare is expected to increase substanti-
ally during the next few years as amounts disbursed under Bank loans and
IDA credits rise. As of December 31, 1972, the Bank/IDA share of total
public debt disbursed and outstanding was 42.9 percent, and the Bank/IDA
share of total public debt service was 30.5 percent. Because of the re-
latively low levels of assistance expected from bilateral donors, Bank
Group debt outstanding as a percent of all debt outstanding is expected
to rise to 50-55 percent by 1980, and debt service payments to the Bank
Group will increase to approximately 35 percent of total debt service by
the same year. As noted earlier, however, the debt service ratio in 1973
was less than 8 percent and is likely to remain below 10 percent in the
1980's.
PART III AGRICULTURE IN ETHIOPIA
24.       About 90 percent of Ethiopia's population lives in rural areas
and derives its livelihood directly from agliculture. While there appears
to be a rough balance between food production and domestic consumption,
there has been little increase in agricultural productivity and therefore
per capita consumption-has not risen. There is no assurance that with
the present levels of farm management and technology, production will grow
as rapidly as population. In the past the major constraints to agricul-
tural development in Ethiopia have been the low level of investment in
the sector. the unsatisfactory land tenure arrangements, lack of credit
for small-scale farmers, and inadequate storage, transport and marketing
facilities. Sustained economic and social progress in this sector is
dependent on modification of the land holding system which would give
tenant farmers more secure tenure rights, compensation for improvements
and a more equitable share of production. Legislation to reform land
tenancy has been before the Parliament since 1966, but the Parliament,
which represents predominantly the landed interests, has so far refused
to adopt the measure. In its recent policy statement the new cabinet has
pledged itself to a more fundamental land reform as contrasted with the
earlier  emphasis on tenancy reform alone.     It has indicated that holdings
in excess of a "reasonable" limit will be taken over by the:government and
redistributed to those who work the land. However, Parliamentary action
on this vital issue is still uncertain. We have in the past conveyed



-9-
our serious concern about the unsatisfactory land tenure situation in
Ethiopia while simultaneously taking steps to press for adequate tenure
arrangements within projects assisted by us.
25.       Despite these constraints, Ethiopian agriculture has favorable
prospects. Fortunately, there are fertile lands, favorable climates
and, importantly, an apparent readiness on the part of the large farm popu-
lation to accept innovations in production aad marketing. Unfortunately,
lack of transport, insecure land tenure, low levels of investment, plus ex-
ternal factors, such as wide variations in coffee prices and the closure of
the Suez Canal, have prevented the underlying potential from being realized.
2
26.       Ethiopia has a total land area of4about 1.2 million km
composed of a central highland mass surrounked by lowlands. There are
six basic ecological regions among which tojography, climate, soils, and
natural vegetation vary sharply with consequent variations in agricul-
tural potential. While there is no detailed map coverage or land classi-
fication information, it is estimated that approximately 9 percent of
the land is cultivated, approximately one-half is in permanent pasture,
21 percent is barren desert or swamps, 10 percent is rivers and lakes,
and 7 percent of the land is forest.
Highland Agriculture
27.       Nearly 95 percent of the population is concentrated on small farms
in the highland region whichproduce the bulk of the national crop output
and maintain more than 50 percent of the cattle population. For the most
part, the highlands are densely populated, and farm sizes are small with
average cultivated areas per holding varying from 1 to 2 ha. Thus, farming
is characterized by intensive cultivation of small-scale holdings which in
many cases do not absorb the labor of the farm family. About 70 percent of
the cropped area is in cereals with the rest mainly in oilseeds and pulses.
A large cattle herd is maintained in the highlands, and much of the land is
suited to livestock; however, production and marketing methods are generally
inefficient and offtake is low, with cattle kept as work animals, for
dairying, and as insurance or store of wealth. While little agricultural
research has been completed, it appears that the highlands have the poten-
tial for good yields for a wide variety of crops such as cereals, pulses,
oilseeds, fruit, vegetables, and livestock and dairy products. Presently,
however, yields are very low by international standards.
28.       In general, there is little unutilized land in the highlands, but
substantial potential can be realized through improving yields. Increased
crop yields are constrained by the following:
(i) cultural practices are very inefficient: plowing is done by
oxen and a wooden plow, threshing is done by treading with
oxen, and planting, weeding and harvesting are done by hand;



- 10
(ii)  outside of areas included in Government-sponsored projects,
fertilizers and improved seeds are practically unknown;
(iii) except for cereals where good research results are avail-
able, most plant varieties in use are poor performers;
(iv)  holdings are small and in many cases fragmented;
(v) more than half of Ethiopian farm families do not have
title to the land they work, and a large proportion of
these do not have a leasehold on terms which provide
the necessary incentgve   to invest in land improvements
and undertake innoval:ive practices;
(vi) levels of public investment in agriculture are low,,and
the level of public service for agriculture is inadequate;
and
(vii) the marketing infrastructure is undeveloped and fragmented
and reduces returns to the farmer and increases the cost to
the consumer.
Lowland Ag&iculture
29.       The lowlands surround the highlands, with the largest area in the
east, which is also the driest. At present the lowlands are used by noma-
dic pastoralists on an extensive basis, dictated by the limited availability
of water and keep for livestock. Livestock mortality is high, productivity
is low, and off-take rates of 4-6 percent reflect the subsis-tence nature of
the activity., Where rainfall is adequate for cultivation, endemic malaria
generally discourages highland farmers. While there is potential for develop-
ment in the west and southwest lowlands, where spontaneous development is
taking place as malaria is brought under control, the problems of communi-
cations and transport, insecure tenure and lack of basic services inhibit
development.
30.       The above observations need to be seen in historical perspective.
Progress has been made in recent years in laying the groundwork for growth
in agriculture. Twenty years ago there were only five Ethiopians working
in Ethiopia who had college degrees in agriculture. At that time there
were no facilities for agricultural research or extension, practically no
organized farm credit, few roads, very limited markets for farm products
and no distribution facilities for modern inputs. In contrast, today an
agricultural college and three sub-professional agricultural institutes are
in full operation. The first public effort to provide irrigation is
about to be undertaken through t-he Amibara project.  The experience of
the ongoing comprehensive development projects, CADU (Chilalo Agricultural
Development Unit) supported by Sweden and WADU (Wolamo Agricultural
Development Unit) financed by IDA, has already been used to design a
program to provide minimum agricultural inputs which seeks to capitalize
on farmers' aspirations and their willingness and capacity to improve



their farming methods. During the first two plan periods a start was
also made on institutional development in agriculture. The Awash Valley
Authority (AVA) was set up, as was an animal health school; various
undertakings were begun in research, extension, cooperatives and com-
munity development. A Grain Corporation was established, and the Ministry
of Land Reform and Administration was created.
The Drought
31.       An agricultural economy is dependent on the weather, with the
basic rhythm of peasant and nomadic ways of life largely determined by the
distribution and quantity of rains. This fact is clearly demonstrated in
Ethiopia where densely populated areas in Wollo and Tigre Provinces have
experienced below normal rainfall since 1971. In a large part of Ethiopia,
there are two growing seasons, February to June, and June to November. In
1973, there was a complete failure of rains during the February to June
season with the result that no harvest was made. Remaining food stocks
were consumed and famine began. As domestic animals and work oxen weakened
or died, land and belongings were sold and mortgaged, and the population
began deserting the land in search of food in towns and relief centers.
While heavy rains occurred in the main season (the summer), a large propor-
tion of farmers were without work animals and seed and were unable to cul-
tivate the land. Precise information on the extent of the tragedy is
unobtainable because large portions of affected areas are virtually inac-
cessible except on foot or on mule-back; it is estimated, however, that
aproximately 1.2 million people were seriously affected, and that between
50,000 and 100,000 died. Crop losses were almost total and losses of work
oxen were 20 to 30 percent. Nomadic areas in the lowlands suffered equally
devastating blows. Livestock losses were 80% of cattle, 50% of sheep, and
30% of camels and goats. Nomads were forced to leave the rangelands to
look for food in towns.
32.       By March 1973, it was clear that a disaster was occurring, and
the Ethiopian Government took steps to meet an emergency whose dimensions
were not yet known. In April, the Government established a National Drought
Relief Committee to coordinate disaster relief, and banned the export of
cereal grains. The Government's initial preoccupation was to provide food
and medicine to the destitute population. With assistance from inter-
national and bilateral agencies, and international church groups, which
together pledged a total of 150,000 tons of grains, other foods, medical
supplies, vehicles and storage facilities, and with the help of private
donations within the country, the Government was able to provide food and
medicine to the above 1.2 million people. This relief effort is expected
to continue until the harvest at the end of 1974.
33.       Once the relief effort was organized, the next concern was
resumption of food production. In November 1973, the Government established
a second inter-ministerial committee, chaired by the Minister of Agricul-
ture, to plan and implement recovery projects. This committee developed a



- 12 -
progran directed at the supply of seeds and work oxen, crop protection,
and tractor rental. The program also included the initiation of longer
term efforts: construction of feeder roads, reforestation, and development
of local water supplies. Major policy components of the program included
the temporary waiver of land and income taxes in the drought areas, and a
decree giving farmer-owners the right to tale possession and resume culti-
vation of land which they had sold or mortgaged and giving tenants the
right to cultivate land from which they were evicted during the drought.
34.       For both programs, famine relief and resumption of food produc-
tion, significant external financial and food resources have been made
available. However, transportation and distribution have been major problems.
A shortage of trucks has slowed transportation of food and seeds to the
stricken areas and, within the areas, lack of roads has made distribution
difficult. This situation has been aggravated by rain that further hampered
transportation. Also, efforts to provide new work oxen have not been
successful because of an inadequate supply of trained work oxen and
transportation difficulties. The net result is that relief efforts and
efforts to resume production are faltering. Consequently, there is
little prospect that production of food in Tigre and Wollo will meet
consumption requirements by the end of 1974.
35.       The Government's third concern is to plan and implement programs
for rehabilitation and longer term development. For this the Ministry of
Agriculture established a working party to plan a long-term rehabilitation
program, and the Government requested Bank assistance for the rehabili-
tation and long-term development of the drought stricken areas.
Subsequent Developments
3b.       Information now becoming available indicates that substantial
areas in the South and East have also been hard hit by drought. If there
are no rains this spring to alleviate the drought which has been developing
during the past two years over wide-spread areas of Ethiopia, the situation
will worsen considerably. There are indications that even if efforts to
produce crops in the first season succeed, severe food shortages will
persist in many areas. It is becoming more and more clear that the drought
and all its consequences are widespread, and have dealt Eth'opia a serious
economic blow.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Drought Area Rehabilitation
Project, Ethiopia", No. 444a-ET is being circulated separately. A credit
and project summary is provided in Annex III.
38.       The project was appraised in the field in February/March 1974.
Negotiations for the proposed IDA credit were held in Washington on



- 13 -
May 24 through May 28, 1974. The Ethiopian delegation was led by H.E.
Ato Shimelis Adugna, Chief Commissioner for Drought Relief and Re-
habilitation.
The Project Area
39.       The area comprises those parts of Tigre and Wollo Provinces that
were affected by the drought. These two provinces have a combined popu-
lation of 4.2 million of whom 2 million live in the drought areas. While
it now appears that the drought-famine problem is affecting many other areas
of Ethiopia, this was only becoming apparent at the time of appraisal. Hence
the Minister of Agriculture requested the Mission to concentrate its efforts
on Tigre and Wollo.
40.       For purposes of agricultural production, the drought areas can be
divided into three. They are the Wollo highland cropping areas where there
are two cropping seasons, one based on light rains (belg) in February and
March, and the second based on heavier rains in June and July, with harvests
in June and November/December respectively. Then there are the Tigre high-
land cropping areas which have only one cropping season a year. Finally
there are the nomadic livestock areas.
41.       Much of the area of Tigre and Wollo is made up of highlands where
serious soil erosion has occurred. Many of the forests have been destroyed,
and there is a critical shortage of firewood in most areas. In many areas
of Tigre rainfall is normally low and irregular, thus the availability of
water is always a critical factor in agricultural production. While Wollo
is relatively better situated with regard to rainfall, droughts have occurred
in the past. There exists a good potential for underground water in both pro-
vinces, as well as for collection of water fr,m streams provided catchments
are treated to reduce siltation and other effects of runoff.
42.       Both Tigre and Wollo are densely populated (Tigre has 52 persons
per sq. km as compared to the national average of 20 per sq. km). Since
there is virtually no unused arable land, increased agricultural production
can only be obtained through the intensification of land use. However, in-
comes are so low that most peasant farmers are unable to make investments
which would increase productivity. In Tigre the land tenure is communal,
leading to continued fragmentation, whereas in Wollo tenancy and sharecropping
are common. The shortage of land and the deteriorating economic situation
have caused some migration from both provinces.
43.       In the lowlands of Tigre and Wollo there are about 200,000 km
with a carrying capacity of one animal per two to five hectares, that have
potential for livestock development. At present nomadic pastoralists use
these areas for cattle, sheep and goats on an extensive basis, dictated by
the limited availability of water. Mortality is high, productivity is low,
and off-take rates of 4 percent to b percent reflect the subsistence nature
of this part of the livestock subsector. Overgrazing is a problem, parti-
cularly near water supplies. In the greater part of the lowlands, the agri-
cultural development potential is limited to extensive livestock production



- 14 -
since rainfall is inadequate to support crops; however, in a number of
valleys there are possibilities for irrigated crop production.
The Requirements
44.       In assessing the drought, it should be understood that although
the failure of the rains over successive periods has caused the immediate
problem, the situation in the highlands has been aggravated by a number
of adverse developments which have taken place over the years. Among
these are deforestation, the cultivation of mountain slopes and consequent
soil erosion, and a generally ineffecient pattern of land use, all of
which reflect growing pressure of population on land. These problems
have been compounded by a land tenure system which is heavily weighted
in favor of large land owners, and is characterized by insecure tenancy,
burdensome cropsharing, and under-utilization of land potential. These
problems will continue to depress agricultural productivity when the
rainfall returns to normal. Unless these problems are dealt with--and
this means a radical change in agricultural practices plus land reform--
conditions will continue to deteriorate even with normal rainfall.
45.       Thus, in addition to programs to alleviate hardship, resume
agricultural production, and improve basic services in the drought
stricken areas, there is a neec for a long term development strategy for
the area. Consequently, the Governmentts overall program recognizes
three requirements first, short term relief and other activities to
alleviate hardship and facilitate cultivation, second, short to medium term
activities to bring production back to pre-drought levels and improve
basic services (e.g. transportation, water supply, medical service) and
third, long-term efforts to increase productivity, modernize the agri-
cultural structure, and make the area more able to withstand future
droughts that may occur.
46.       Within the framework of these requirements, the first of which
is being met by the Government with bilateral assistance, this project
is designed to fill the gaps in the assistance being provided for
medium term programs (and to assure their coordination), and to develop
programs for long term development cf the areas.
Project Description
47.        The project would contain the following sub-projects:
(a) Assistance to the Borrower's Office of the Chief
Commissioner for Drought Relief and Rehabilitation
in (1) preparing projects for the rehabilitation and
development of the drought areas; and (2) coordinating
and monitoring project implementation;



- 15 -
In the Highlands
(b)  construction and maintenance of about 400 to 500 kms
of rural roads;
(c) the construction of water supply facilities including
wells, small dams and weirs, catchments and simple
irrigation works; plus water resources planning, and the
execution of basic water resource surveys;
(d) preparation and execution of a pilot agricultural settle-
ment project in Wollo Province, which will include af-
forestation, soil conservation, minor irrigation, exten-
sion, credit, reorganization of land holdings, marketing,
research, nutrition, and some employment oriented non-
agricultural activities:
(e) execution of surveys, technical data collection, and
planning to serve as a basis for long term agricultural
development, with emphasis on resettlement in the area
through reorganization of land holdings;
(f) research on peasant farming systems by the Institute
of Agricultural Research in close association with the
planning and data collection components referred -to
above;
(g)  construction of health centers and facilities
(h) development of craft/cottage indu9try for the benefit of
widows and others who cannot be r'.habilitated in agri-
culture;
In the Nomadic Rangeland Areas
(i) A two-year interim program for the development of the
north-east rangelands, including (i) construction of about
500 kms of motorable tracks; (ii) development of 1,000 ha of
low cost flood irrigation; (iii) development of potable
water supplies for five villages.
Provision for Financing Sub-Projects not Listed Above
48.       Given the emergency nature of the Project, it is important that
the Government retain flexibility both to address problems as they arise,
and to coordinate assistance to be received from a multitude of external
donors, many of whom provide not money, but specific goods. Therefore,
the Credit Agreement provides (Schedule 2 , J) that the Government may
submit sub-projects other than those listed above for the approval of the



- 16 -
Association. While the proposed project would meet the needs of the drought
areas as they are presently known, a flexible procedure with regard to new
sub-projects will allow substitution of other sub-projects in the event
that (1) new rehabilitation needs that cannot be financed from other sources
arise, or (2) other donors cover the needs of the above sub-projects, there-
by releasing IDA funds for other priorities. One unlisted sub-project that
may be a candidate for IDA financing is the distribution of the work oxen,
seeds, and fertilizers necessary to resumption of cultivation. Our under-
standing to date is zhat these are being adequately financed by other ex-
ternal donors.  However, neither we nor the Government know the exacz re-
quirements for such inputs; thus this provision for the approval of other
activities would enable the financing of these priority inputs if the need
is beyond the availability of other assistance.
Project Management
49.       The Government has established a Drought Relief and Rehabilitation
Commission to take responsibility for all drought relief and rehabilitation
activities. This Commission is composed of all Cabinet Ministers with re-
sponsibilities related to drought relief and rehabilitation, representatives
from the Prime Minister's office, and governors of drought affected
provinces. The work of the Commission will be carried out by the office
of the Chief Commissioner for Drought Relie` and Rehabilitation (OCDRR),
headed by a Chief Commissioner, and staffed primarily by personnel in-
definitely seconded from other ministries and agencies of the Government.
50.       The OCDRR will have responsibility for the execution of this pro-
ject. To approve the individual items to be financed by the Credit and to
monitor the implementation the Commission would form a multi-disciplinary
Project Review Group (PRG) that would also Acoordinate planning activities
to ensure an integrated and well balanced approach for the project as a
whole. Another function of the PRG will be to ensure that items proposed
for financing under the Credit meet project criteria. The formation of
the PRG plus the appointment of a controller in the OCDRR, acceptable to
the Association, would be conditions precedent to effectiveness (Section
5.01 of the Credit Agreement).
51.       In Wollo, where provincial administration has been particularly
weak, a provincial development authority will be established to take charge
of the day to day implementation of the project. This development authority
would be integrated into the provincial administration, but would report to
the OCDRR on rehabilitation and development matters, and would receive techni-
cal backstopping from both the OCDRR and Government and the Central Govern-
ment ministries and agencies. Coordination between the provincial admini-
stration and OCDRR will be accomplished by making the chier of the develop-
ment authority both Assistant Provincial Governor and a Deputy Commissioner
of the OCDRR. This approach to rehabilitation and development in Wollo re-
sults from the realization that a decentralized and comprehensive approach
is required to deal effectively with the very severe problems faced by this



- 17-
province, which was hit hardest by the drought. The Government has not yet
decided whether this same organizational structure will be used in Tigre and
other provinces suffering from the drought. If not, the OCDRR will consider
the alternative of establishing provincial or regional offices to direct at
the local level the rehabilitation activities of the government ministries
and agencies.
52.       The Ethiopian Government has not yet established an institutional
structure to implement a national rural roads program. The Planning Com-
mission Office in a recent study recommended the establisfment or a Rural
Roads Task Force as tne tirst step toward establishing sucn an iustitutional
structure. Inasmucn as coordination of rural roaa efforts -- those to be
financed by the Bank, those being financed by bilateral assistance and those
being undertaken by local initiative -- would economize resources, we have
agreed with the Government on a covenant requiring the establishment of the
Rural Roads Task Force (Section 3.05 (a) of the Credit Agreement).
Second Generation Projects
53.       As the project components are implemented, the OCDRR will obtain
data for future projects from the following sources:
(a) the pilot project;
(b)  the data collection   omponent;
(c) the farm research component; and
(d)  the feedback from the road construction and rural water
programs.
With these data, the OCDRR will, within 18 months, prepare an integrated
catchment development project, plus new road construction and rural water
projects for possible financing under a future IDA credit. These would
be followed by other catchment projects at a later date.
54.       A longer-term program for the development of the Northeast Range-
lands has been under preparation for some time. Prior to the completion of
the Northeast Rangeland sub-project (in 18 to 24 months), this larger and
more comprehensive project should be ready for appraisal.



- 18 -
lost and Financing
55.       We estimate the total cost of the proposed project to be
US$10.0 million, of which 68 percent would be in foreign-exchange,as shown
below:
(US$'000 equivalent)
Item                      Local     Foreign    Total
(a)  Project Preparation Group             40          200      240
(b)  Rural Roads                          120        1,400    1,520
(c)  Rural Water Supplies                 250        1,250    1,500
(d)  Pilot Project in Wollo               650          400    1,050
(e)  Surveys for Project Preparation       60          300      360
(f)  Research                             100          450      550
(g)  Crafts/Cottage Industries            130           50      180
(h)  Health Facilities                    400          400      800
(i)  Northeast Rangelands                 850          550    l400
2,600       5,000     7,600
(j)  Contingencies                        600        1,800    2,400
Total                         3,200        6,800   10,000
56.       The severe upheaval which has taken place in Ethiopia over the
last few months, and which forced large wage increases for the military,
police and teachers, has placed a very heavy burden on the budget. In
addition, the Government has had to lay out large sums for drought and
famine relief, and will have to lay out even more for similar purposes
in areas not covered by this proje4ct. Thus, the Government's ability
to support extraordinary expenditures of this kind has been seriously
impaired. In this situation, we consider it unrealistic to obligate the
Government to undertake even a small portion of the total expenditure on
the project; such a stipulation might in fact prejudice the prompt imple-
mentation of some urgent programs. As an exceptional measure, therefore,
the credit would cover 100 percent of the cost of the project, net of
import duties and taxes.
Justification
57.       The components in the proposed project range from those that
address themselves to the immediate problems created by the drought to
others that deal with longstanding problems. In view of the urgency of
the situation, time has not been taken to prepare a quantified justifi-
cation for each of the components. The sub-projects which respond to
the relatively long-term needs would probably generate economic benefits
exceeding their costs. This would be so for the Wollo pilot project,
surveys and technical data collection, and research, that are essentially



- 19 -
a means of reinforcing the preparation of projects which would be sub-
mitted to the Bank in the normal manner. The rural water component, health
centers and crafts/cottage industry sub-projects have major significance
for the survival and rehabilitation of thousands of people who for many
months have lived on charity without hope of going back to their land,
and therefore have an important quaLitative significance. The rural roads
program is beneficial in both the short and long term. In Wollo, where
the program has started virtually from nothing, rural roads would consider-
ably enhance the effectiveness of the provircial adminis.ration, and end
the isolation which characterizes the lives of many people. It will not
only help relief operations, but create the basis for launching other
development activities.
Procurement
58.       Procurement of equipment for road construction and rural water
supply construction and other orders costin; more than $30,000 will be
by international competitive bidding in acc,rdance with Bank/IDA guide-
lines. Other local materials, equipment and services will be purchased
in accordance with the Government's standard procurement regulations.
Disbursements
59.       Disbursements from the Credit Account would cover 100 percent
of the cost of goods and services net of import duties and taxes required
for each sub-project. For expenditures covering small items tor which the
submission of normal documentation would not be practical, disbursements
would be made against certificates of expenditures, the documentation of
which would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the
OCDRR's controller and would be available for inspection by the Associ-
ation during the course of Project supervision missions.
60.       The Association would make disbursements to the Ethiopian
Government in advance of expenditures tu establish a Drought Rehabili-
tation Account (DR Account) in order to aid in the prompt implementation
of the project. All amounts withdrawn from the credit that are not paid
by the Association directly to the suppliers of goods and services would
be deposited in the DR Account. As soon as the credit is declared
effective, the Association would be prepared to make an initial disburse-
ment of up to $100,000 equivalent to the DR Account, from which OCDRR
coula make withdrawals for its own requirements (for example, technical
assistance, vehicles equipment, salaries) (Section 2.02 (c) or the Credit
Agreement).
61.       The submission of an implementation plan for the Association's
approval would be a condition ot disbursement for each of the sub-projects.
As implementation plans are approved by the Association, the Association
would, upon request by the OCDRR, disburse additional funds in advance of



- 20 -
expenditure (up to a maximum of US$500,OCO equivalent) to the DR Account.
The OCDRR could withdraw from the DR Account to pay costs of sub-projects.
?eriodically, after review and approval of documents pertaining to pre-
vious expenditures, the Association would make further disbursements for
the DR Account (Section 2.02 (c) of the Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORTTY
62.       The drafts of a Development Credit Agreement Detween the Empire
of Ethiopia and the Association, the recommendation of the Committee
provided for under Article V, Section 2(d) of the Articles of Agreement,
and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed Development
Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 13, 1974



ANNEX I
Page 1,of' 4
Re f-renue Com    isons
Ethi -Pia                   T3nznl    ~   Yenyr            Ttaly
196-           19-70              MO9700ii
6NP pes: Capi Ia US$~ (Atlas b-asis).                                                   du                              I ;o           I  (
Der.graphi c
Crude birth rate (per thousarid)                                                      6/                j7             4b             i 
Cruule death rate (pe- thousand)                                     .                25 7,             22                             9.7
Inifant mortality rat2 (per thousand live births)                                                   l006-l(. /                       29.2
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                     *.3g                              4,3             4               1
Gross reproduction rate /i                                                            .               3.?             J.,              0. 
Po,pulation growth rate __                                           L              2.2               2.7'                              .
Fop,. Iation growth rate - urban                                           r._           /c              7              0/d,e          C.7 /e..f
Age structure (percent)
0-14                                                               .                , If            La               72L.3
65 and over                                                                               n            3             21.
Dependency ratio /3                                                                                                    K  bi  ~        1.0 /i
Population density por sq. Ion.                                       3 7             20               15              20              i76~
Urban population as percent of total.                                    9c9/                              b9 /,                         3l.
Family planning: No. of acceptors cumulative (thous.)                9..
No. of users (% of married women)                 *                                                 .
REmployment
Total labor force (thousands)                                        ...5,760                                      5,00' i    k    19IO,0  /
Percentage eokployed in agriculture                                .               .                  i:7j1 7
Percentage unemployed                                                                                               ..3
Income Distribution
Te-r-e-T onati-onal income received by lowest 20%                     ..
Percent of national income received by highest 5%                     ..
Health and Nutrition
P,opulation7per physician                                            ..71,600I /k                  21,570 Im      12,350 Ik             0
Population per nursing person                                         .36, 3 go 7-ko                2,9b0 7-k n    3 G007-
Population per hospital bed                                        3,3u/op        310                  6              767              10/
Per capita calorie suipply as % of requirements /6                    77 /r           61               69              90              !10 /s
Per capita protein supply, total. (grams per dayYT-z                  63 Tr           56(              L3              66               on 7-s
Of which, animal and pulse                                          26 7-r         25                2 3             29               L? Ts
Death rate 1-u4 years /6                                             ..              .i..7.                                                _
Education
Ad-Justed /7 primary school enrollment ratio                           510, /k                         37             I)0 /u           ]00 /k
Adjusted 77 secondary school enrollment ratio                          a                 7-k             2              8T              5~ 7_
Years of schooling provided, first and second level                   12              1?               1       13                       1.
Vocational enrollment as % of see. school enrollment                  20               5 /k             1 
Adult literacy rate %                                                ..7aZ,v,t                        .                30 /u, v_
Housing
Average No. of persons per room (urban)                              2.7 /o          ...                              .                 .1 /.,Y
Percent of occupied units without piped water                         26 / o x      .                  20 /ac         .3E .'o
Access to electricity ~~(as % of total population)              5o  ,          ..z                3             ..9' 7,,
Percent of rural popaiiation connected to electricity....
roE{iBoi;eivers per IJO0 population                                     6 ha            0               11              46 /k           210
Passenger cars per 1000 population                                     1 77o           1 /k             2A,' m          '             19
Electric power consuintion (kwh p.c.)                                  o7_o           20               29 7~.          LS2,166
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                               .002.1.455.
Notes:   Figures refer either to the latest periods or to                 and distr-ibution by age and sex of national populations..
the latest years.    Latest periods refer in principle to             L   Protein standards (requirements) for all countries as estab-
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prin-                   lished by USDA Economic Research Service provide for a minimum
ciple to 1960 and 1970.    Only significantly different                   allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and 20 grams of
periods or years are footnoted separately.                                animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grsms should be animal
/1  Average number of daughters per woman of reproductive                 protein.   These standards are somewhat lower than those of 75
age.                                                                  grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as en
/2  Population growth rates are for the doeades ending in                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
1960 and 1970.                                                        Survey.
/3  Ratio of under 15 and 65 and over age brackets to                 A   Some studies have suggested that crude death rates of children
those in labor force bracket of-ages 15 through 66.                   ages 1 through 4 may be used as a first approximation index of
/4  FAO reference standards represent physiological re-                   malnutrition.
quirements for normaal activity and health, taking               /7   Percentage enrolled of corresponding population of school age
account of environimental temperature, body weights,                  as defined for each country.
/a  UN estimate;    Ia 192)7;  /c Uroan population defined as Addis AOaoa, Asr'ara, towfns and market centers;        /d 190,2-i'9;  /e over
2,000 population;    If' 19?T;     15-59 years;    In s~o years and over;   Ai Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to tota)
loa     oc;~Loor force;inIae brce                 5-9;   /k 19u9;   /1 Over 10C years old;    Im Tanganyika only;    /r Nurses-midwiives
and cuolic nealtn nurses;     /c 19s1);  /n Including maternity hospital beds;      I  InuiudT-ng local or rural anrmaternity hospital
boeds;  ,0r l9-.l-s3;  Is lq96689)   It lt,6-57;   /u 1966;   /v Over 15 years;    /w Definition of literacy unknown;      /x Addl4s Ababa
on.y;        rannd rua;        I   ecetg       fdlling3 wi-to electrical lighting;        /aa 1959;    /3o 196,3;  /ac Urban only.
December 27, 1973



Y'r H I MI IA                                  !~~~~~~~~~~~ANf.XL I
1-F0I-M(, -Wll 01') T AA rPage 2 of 4 Pages
TGon--- -Miions oi ID.S. dula-r7,
Actual   ____    Pr. l.'ctu.i          ~~~~~~~~~~1960-  1965 -  1970 -  1975 -90               18
190  1065      1903                 I'1  ) I  1980     196 9    19 70     19 75     1980
NATIlONA. AC'C0oVNL2                 90        -         -                                                                             99      1  0    18
4-Y-',r A,vr., at 1,)67- 1969 14          ~Averaee A.nun) Gro~wth FRates                           A. Percent of GIlY
Gross Puss-rIle Product  1O~~~~~~)5.2  1326.5  165~~~T  16/6.5 ~2052.5S  2sI5T 5. 1    4. 5      4.4       5.0     100.0    9 9. 4  10 2. 3
G~ains fre,.c T,r-n uf T1'rde        0. 3     16. 5     N.4         3. 9    -'6.     - 59. 9        .       .-                                  0.6     -23
Gross lx,sn,sts icc.,ce  T0~~~~~~379  T)23T~~  166c-.d ~ 1880.4  '2026. 2  7=   5.4      4. 3     4.0       4. 8    10-0.0   100.    100.0ou-
Import (incl. N-S)                 1.4      188. 9    2 03. 3     23 2 .9  2768. 6   34 7 .7    12.0      1. 5      5. 7     5. 3     10.4     12. 2    13. 6
!EcJ-rtLs  .  (imoport capacity)    95.2    161.4     175.9       239.1     238.6    2 7S. 1    10.9      1.7       6.3      3.1       9.3     10.6     10.9
ls.-s,arce Gap                      111   2   7.5     27.4         -62       3F0.0    6 9.6     19.7        -       1.8     18.3      *iTi      1: 6    -2
Consumption Expenditures           922.3   1208.8    1466.3      1613.1    1756.8   2233.0       5.6      3.9       3.7      4.9      89.1     88.1     87.4
Investment       (mncl. stocks)    124.6    163.8     225.0       261.2    299.6     392.4       5.6      6.6       5.9      5.6      12.0     13.5     15.4
Domestic Sav-ings                  113.3    136.2     197.6       267.3     269.5    322.8       3.8      7.7       6.4      3.7      10.9     11.9     12.6
Nationsa. Savings                  117.3    142.3     198.5       263.4     266.2    314.0       3.9      6.9       6.1      3.4      11.3     11.9     12.3
MERCHANDISE T?AI)E                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                            As Percent of Total
Impcrts                   ~~~~1967   1968     1-96 9      1970      1971     1972                                            1968     1970     1972
Capital goods                     49.6     72.9      51.7        56.9      64.0     7 2 .7                                          42.1     33.2     38.5
Intermediate roods (o'rLfuels)    30.8     38.5      33.5        39.4     43.4      39.6                                            22.3     23.0     20.9
F'uels and related naterials      12.6     10.8      11.3        13.5      17.7     15.7                                             6.2      7.9      8.3
of wld.ch: Petroleumr
Consu,3ation  oods S.& Misc.      50.9      50.8     58.8        61.7    -62.7      61.1                                            29.4     35.9     32.3
Total Merch. Tn~por-tsn (-cif)   1 43.0   1773.0    155.3       171.6     187.8    189.1                                           100.0    100.0o   10-0.
Exports
Primary produ-ts (~cl. fuels)     99.9    102.6     114.9       114.6     119.7    159.8                                            96.4     93.7     95.8
F,ucls and related materials         -      0.7       1.3         1.4       2.0      1.5                                             0.7      1.1      0.9
or whiich: Petroleum
Manufactuired goods                1.2       3.1      3.0         6.3       3.9       5.5                                            2.9      5.2      3.3
Toial Merch. Exports (fob)       101.1    106.4     119.2       1722.3   1725.6    1766. 8                                         100.0    100.-0   1070.0
Tosrismi and Bor-der, Tracoe
Avesage 1965-69   =106'
Merchandise Trade Indices            0960Lo    1965     1970        1973      1975      1980
Export Price Index                93.6    10-9.0~   126.5       141.3-    151.4    171.2       3.1L     3.0       3.7      2.
Import Price Index                93.9     92.7     102.4       125.8     172.0    223.8      -0.3      2.0      10.9      5.4
Terms of Trade Index              99.9    117.7     123.6       112.6      88.0     76.5       3.3      1.0      -6.6     -2.8
Exports Volume Index              71.8     97.6      88.2       145.8     160.2    205.2       6.3     -1.9      12.6      5.0
VAL;TE A.DDED BY SECTOR             Annuaal Data at l%60-61   Ethi..a. Sa  $                      Aver-ar Asnupl Growt.h Rates        As Percent of Total
1_96,)/ hi  1631  1 6 _[6 --I______     77III                 1960/61 - 1971172               1960/61   1965/66   1971/72
Agriculture                    1504.5    1608.9    1684.4    1754.2   18333     168                       2.3                     -64. 5     57.0      51.5
industry and Mining             286.6     3 58 .9   438.8    500.9     541.1     621.0                    7.3                       12.3     14.8      16.5
ServiLce                        541.0     684.5     832.7    944.9    1071.1    1204.1                    7.6                       23.2     28.2      32.0
Total                          2332.1    2652.3    2955.9   3200.0    3445.5    3761.9                    4.4                      100.0    100.0     100.0
As Percent of GDP
PUBLIC FINANCE                     1967/68  1968/69   1969/70   1970/1   1 97 1 /72  1972/732        1967/68 - 1972/73               196768169701           1/ 
(Central. G-c.vernmsent)                                                                                                                                _______
Current Receipts                367.6     396.6     429.1    466.0     494.7     560.0                    8.8                        9.6      9.7      10.5
Current Expenditures            345.2     362.0     384.0    405.5     434.4     473.8                    6.5                        9.0      8.7       9.2
BRudgeta.ry Savings               24       346      4.        60.5      60.3      86.2                  30.9                         0.6      1.0       1.3
Other Public Sector                  -        -         -         -        -         - 
Public Sector Investment         71.5      64.7     92.0     111.5     125.9     128.9                  12.5                         1.9     2.1       2.7
US$millioni
CURRENT RE)PENDIFrJE DETAILS            Actual         Prelims.  Proj.                        DETAIL ON                                At end 1969   P and ER
As % Total current Expend.)      1970/71   1971/72  1932/73   1973/74                       PUBLIC SECTOR                       Third PIlan       of TotalI
Education                         19.0      19.7     21.0     -21.4                         INVESTMENT PR.OGRAM                  (1968 /69   -19 72 /73)
Other Social Services              7.2       7.0       7.5      8.3                         Social Sectors                         46.6          32.3
Agriculture                        2.8       2.9       2.8      3.2                         Agriculture                            25.3          12.1
Other Economic Services            8.8       8.1       8.7      9.5                         Industry and Mining                    24.5          11.7
Adm,inistration and Defense       53.6      53.0     50.7      46.6                         Power
OIther                             8.6      9_._2      9.3     11.2                         Transport and communications           83.5          39.4;
Total Current Expenditures       100.0     100.0    100.0     100.0                         Other                                  29.3-        14.0
Total Expenditures                    209.2         100.0
.SELECTED INDICATORS                                1960-      1965-     1970-    93          FINANClING
(Calculated fro. 3-year averaged data)              1965       3970      1975    197(8
Average ICOR                                        2.50       3.22      3.20    3.05            Puilic S.-ctor Savings              73.8         42.2
Import Elasticity                                   2.68      0.31      1.27     1.21            Program aid counterpart                -            -
18,rgina2 Ibmentic S.avings Rate                    0.07      0.20      0.20     0.04            Foreign Project Aid                101.2         57.8
Margina,l National Savings Rate                     0.08      0.18      0.19     0.04            Total Financing                    175.0        100.0
IABOJR FOI'CE AND                                Total Iciecr Force      -Value Added Per Worker (Pics19Re.Rater.)
0UTlIfT PER W0GPSTR                3r, Ytilllcrs2               -I       - 7al  T             In U.S.Dsillars      Pccnof Average             19   -
______-         19~~~~~~~~~~1                            G,,f! Pt 19  19  19GrthEt                  19                    Growthi Rate
Agriculture                                            ..         ....                                      .            .
Industry                           .           .       .          ..                              .         .
not available         -   s    tic-u half ti,



M:NEX 
Page 3 of4 page
EThIOPIA
ALtANCE OF PAY!MrTS, Er.U29  ASSISTAN2E AND DEBT
(amosnts in millims of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Arn=wl
Actual                      Estimated                                 Pro ected                                 .ohtb Rate
1969       1970        1971       1972         1973         1974        197        1976       1977        1978       1979        1969-179
c.vvAX BALSUCE OF PAr'NTS
Epo-ts (mnci   Wm9)                  177.0       180.3      190.2       246.8        327.4       379.0       385.0      410.0       435.0      465.0       520.0          11.4
LDo-ts (inel N-S)                    189.1       212.2      232.1       236.7        259.9       353.5       390.0      435.0       480.0      530.0       587.5          12.0
Tescurce 3alance (-)                  121        -31.9      -41.9        10.1                      25.5       -5.0      -25.0       -45.0      -65.0       -67.5          18.7
Interest (net)                        -2.5        -1.5       -4.5       -6.1          -8.0        -9.0       -10.0      -11.0       -12.0      -13.0       -14.0          18.8
Drec-t Investm.ent Income             -5.6        -6.2       -7.2       -13.1        -15.2       -15.0       -16.0      -17.0       -18.0      -19.0       -20.0          13.6
Workers' Pendttance                       -          -          -           -            -            -          -          -           -          -           -
C,-.7 - t Trar.sfers (et)             11.2         8.0        9.0        17.6         21.4        20.0        20.0       20.0        20.0       20.0        20.0           6.0
2a'. ze C: Current Accounts           r96                                                                                                        757 2.        5 -  815  2;-.6
Private Direct Investmrent             2.7         3.9        5.7         9.7         10.0         10.5       11.0        11.5       12.0        12.5       13.5          17.5
official Capital Grants                   -          -          -           -            -            -          -           -          -           -          -
Public M&LT loans
Disburersents                       34.0        27.4       44.3        33.2         40.0          ..          ..         ..          ..
-Re-y-rerts                         -13.5       -14.8      -13.1       -13.1        -14.0          ..          ..         ..          ..
!;et Zsz -ser5eer.ts                  20.5        12.6      31.2 z      20.1         260
Ctl.er ''17 Loans
Din urs erents
7et Disburse.nents                        -          -                      -      -           -           -           -          -           -          -             -
Actum 1                  Eeti.mted
CaDtal Transactions n.e.i.           -10.1        13.3        0.9       -14.6         -4.0                                     196      19u0     1571      1972       1973
Cl.-ge in 2;et Rescrvee                -4.2        1.8        6.8       -23.7        -97.7       DEBT AND DEMT SEP.VICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed 156.4    169.2     204.9    227.2       273.4
'(=A'- AYC flAN C0NI>.'_NrS
0fficial Grants & Grant-like           15.0       11.4        11.3       13.7         15.0         Intereet on Public Debt      5.9      6.0       7.0      8.3         8.4
Repayments on Public Debt   13.5     14.8      13.1      13.1       17.1
Pub,lic MIT loans                                                                                  Total Public Debt Service   19.4     20.8      20.1     21.4        25.5
ERD                                  27.6          -           -       10.8            -         Other Debt Service (net)      -         -         -        -           -
I1 DA                                 3.5        3.1        13.9       34.3         74.4         Total Debt Service (net)   19.4      20.8      20.1     21.4        25.5
0:2er
C:r 5ltilateral                                    -           -                       -       Burden on Export Earnings ()
Govornen:ts                          18.7        8.6        26.9       17.3         20.0
Suppliers                             0.4        1.3          0.7         -             -        Public Debt Service         11.0     11.5      10.6       8.7        7.9
7inanctal Institutions                0.2        3.0          5.0         -                      Total Debt Service          11.0     11.5      10.6      8.7         7.9
crnis                                   -          -           -                                 TDS.Direct Inveet. Inc.     14.1     15.0      14.4     14.0        12.4
?:blic Loans n.e.i. .
7c-a'     . .Z   2o                    50 4       16.0        46.5       62.4         94.4       Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dsc. 31, 1972                 Int. as % Prior Tear D0&D    4.4      3.8       4.1      4.1         3.7
177-t. A1 :ZB                                Disburzied Only           Percent                       Amort. as % Prior Year DC&D  10-0     9.5       7.7       6.4        7.5
Wo.-ld 3a: k
- A                                            64.2                    28.3                     T8RD Debt Out. & Disbursed     44.7     47.4      57.1     64.2        69.1
Ctber fLltilateral                              33.2                    14.6                          as % Public Debt o&D     28.6      28.0     27.9      28.3       25.3
Govelr=snts                                        -                   42 Z                       eas % Public Debt Service    27.5     27.3      28.7      29.1       26.3
S.:-rliers                                      95.9                   42.2
Eir.1.c.al InstituticDns                         3.6                    1.6                     IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed      19.9      22.7     26.4      33.2       42.4
30.3                    13.3                      n as % Pubiic Debt O&D       12.7      13.4      12.9     14.6        15.5
?ub-lic Debts n.e.i                                                                               " as % Public Debt Sersvice   0.5                          1.4        1.6
Total ?ublic MLT Debt                          227.2                  100.0
Cthe- Mt.LT Debts
Short-terr. Debt (disb. onlr)
n.rt anplicable                                             e staff estinmte
.not a;v'ilable                                             - nil or negligible
rot ava:lable separatelv                                   -- less than half the
1b.t tuclu.iei in total                                        snallest unit shown



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND NET PRIVATE CAPITAL INFLOW TO ETHIOPIA
Gross Public Loan Capital Inflow by Source 1962-1972
(US $ millions)
Total                                            Total  Total  Total
1962                                             1966   1970   1970
to                                               to     to     to
1965  1966  1967  1968  1969   1970  1971  1972  1969   1972   1972
IBRD               14.3   7.8   6.3   4.8    6.8   ".6  12.5   9.4  25.7   27.5    28.0
IDA                 5.8   2.7   2.7    4.1   4.6   2.8   3.6   4.5  14.1   10.9    11.2
U.S.A.             13.4   5.2   4.6   19.3   8.1   5.8  15.7   9.9  37.2   31.4    32.0
U.S.S.R.            5.9   3.7   3.8    2.1   0.3    -    0.3    -    9.9    0.3     o.4
Yugoslavia          4.0   o.4   o.6     -     -     -     -     -    1.0     -       -
Italy               0.7     -   1.1    4.3   5.0   2.0   4.3   0.7  10.4    7.0     7.1
Germany             3.4     -    2.0   0.1   o.6   1.4   3.6   4.1   2.7    9.1     9.3
Sweden              0.8    -      -     -    1.6   1.0   1.9   2.1   1.6    5.0     5.1
Netherlands          -   10.9     -     -     -     -     -     -   10.9      -      -
Other               2.5    0.4    -    0.3   0.7   2.3   2.1   2.5   1.4     6.9    6.9
TOTAL         80.8  31.1   21.1  35.0  27.7  20.9  44.0  33.3 114.9   98.2   100.0
Gross Public Loan Capital Inflow by Sector 1962-1972
(US $ millions)
Coinmunications
and Power       59.5  22.4 12.9    18.0  12.2   8.4  26.2  21.8  65.6   56.4    57.4
Industry           13.8   3.6    h.5   4.9   1.5   2.4   2.1   2.0  14.5    6.5     6.6
Agriculture         0.3   0.1    0.2    -     -    0.3   8.7   4.7   0.3   13.7    14.0
Health              0.8   0.5    1.5   5.9   8.6   3.8   2.9   1.6  16.5     8.3    8.5
Education           0.4     -    o.4   2.4   2.2   1.2   0.8   1.6   5.0    3.6     3.7
DFC                 3.0   0.1     -    0.7   1.8   4.2   3.2   0.5   2.6    7.9     8.0
Other               3.0   4.4    1.6   3.1   1.4   0.6   0.2   1.0  10.5    1.8     1.8
TOTAL         80.8  31.1   21.1  35.0  27.7  20.9  44.0  33.3 114.9   98.2   100.00
Net Private CaDital Inflow 1965-1972
(US $ millions)
Total    Total
1965  1966  1967  1968  1969   1970  1971  1972   1965-68  1969-72
lo.4   6.4   2.8   6.4 - 2.0  11.2   14.6  13.2     26.0    37.0



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
A.                   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at March 31, 1974)
Amount
Loan or                                                            (USU~    ion)
Credit                                                   (less cancellation)  Undis-
Number     Year   Borrower        Purpose                     Bank     IDA    bursed
Eight loans fully dIsbursed                                   56.7
Two credits fully disbursed                                           20.7
523-ET     1968   Ethiopia    Fourth Highway                  13.5              1.6
1ll-ET     1968   Ethiopia    Fourth Highway                           7.7      0.9
596-ET     1969   EELPA /1    Power II (Finchaa)              23.1              1.0
605-ET     1969   IBTE /2     Telecommunications IV            4.5              1.3
169-ET     1969   Ethiopia    Wolamo Agriculture                       3.5      0.3
188-ET     1970   Ethiopia    Humera Agriculture                       31.      014
243-ET     1"71   Ethiopia    Education II                             9.5      6.4
269-ET     1971   Ethiopia    Dairy                                    4.4      3.4
818-ET     1972   AWSA /3     Addis Ababa Water
Supply & Sewerage              10.8              10.1
290-ET     1972   Ethiopia    Coffee Processing                        6.3      6.o
304-ET     1972   Ethiopia    Agricultural & Industrial
Development Bank                       11.0       7.0
332-ET     1972   Ethiopia    Fifth Highway                           17.0     16.9
365-ET     1973   Ethiopia    Second Livestock                         5.0      5.o
h16-ET     1973   Ethiopia    Agric. Minimum Package                  21.0     21.0
417-ET*    1973   Ethiopia    Third Education                         10.0     10.0
418-ET*    1973   Ethiopia    Amibara Irrigation                      17.0     17.0
"'53-3T4    197_  _thiopia     Telecom V                              21.1     21.
Total .108.6 157.6
of which has been repaid .                              -
Total now outstanding ............
Amount sold ...................... 4
of which has been repaid ..... 3.9             0.2   157.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   78.0   157. 6
(prior to exchange adjustments)
Total undisbursed                                14.0   115. 7    129.7
* not yet effective
/1 Ethiopian Electric Light & Power Authority
72 Imperial Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia
7 Addis Ababa Water & Sewerage Authority



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.                   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at March 31, 1974)
US$ Million
Type of                Amount
Year              Obligor                     Business       Loan    Equity    Total
1965     Cotton Company of Ethiopia I         Textiles       1.5      1.0        2.5
1966     Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.          Paper                   1.9        1.9
1968     HVA Metahara                         Sugar          5.5      3.5       9.0
1570     Cotton Company of Ethiopia II        Textiles       0.5      0.2        0.7
1973     Cotton Company of Ethiopia III       Textiles       1.5      0.2        1.7
Total gross commitments                             9.0      6.8      15.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             3.5      3.1       6.6
Total commitments now held by IFC                   5.5      3.7       9.2
Total undisbursed



<N-NEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - ETHIOPIA -
Ln No. 523     Fourth Highway P-oject; US$13.5 million Loan and US$7.7
million Credit o:: January 15, 1968; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 197:1, postponed to June 30, 1974, and sub-
sequently to June 30, 1975.
The project was late in starting because initial bids were high
requiring changes in specifications and new bid invitations. Subsequent
progress has, however, been good. Of the three civil works contracts,
two have been completed - one a year ahead of schedule and the other about
fifteen months ahead of schedule: the third contract was substantially
completed at the end of 1973, about three months behind schedule, but some
repair work and clean up operations extended into the second quarter of
1974. The closing date was postponed to allow for settlement of con-
tractor's claims.
Ln No. 596     Power II, Finchaa Hydroelectric Project; US$23.1 million
Loan of May 9, 1969; Closing Date; December 31, 1973,
postponed to June 30, 1974 and was subsequently postponed
to December 31, 1974.
The Project has been completed; apart from some minor outstanding
works, and all three generating units are now available for commercial
operation. An analysis of overall Project costs, taking into consideration
the various currency realignments during the course of construction,
shows that costs have increased by about 7% over the original estimate,
which is moderate in the inflationary conditions which have prevailed
during the construction period. The increased costs are confined entirely
to local costs. The original Loan Closing Date of December 31, 1973 was
postponed to June 30, 1974 sc that payment of retention monies could be
withheld pending completion of all outstanding items to complete contracts
to specifications. The closing date was postponed to December 31, 1974
to allow payment for some minor corrective civil works.
Ln No. 605     Telecommunications IV Project; US$4.5 million Loan of
June 3, 1969; Closing Date; December 31, 1973, postponed
to December 31, 1974.
SIDA is providing joint financing of $4.5 million equivalent to
finance part of the foreign exchange cost. Overall progress has been
reasonably on target. However, installation of five microwave routes will
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



VNNEX II
Page 4 Of 6
not be accomplished until August 1974.   The delays were due to difficulty
in obtaining suitable consultants to work on the survey of three routes
and the need to review the capacity, feasibility and other requirements
of the other two routes to assure conformity with the Pan-African Regional
Telecommunications Recommendations.
Cr No. 1969    Wolamo Agriculture Development Project; US$3.5 million
Credit of November 16, 1969; Closing Date;   June 30. 1976.
Overall progress is good and in advance of appraisal schedule.
Participation of farmers in the program to increase productivity through
the provision of extension services, inputs and credit is in advance of
expectations as is participation in the soil conservation program. Con-
struction of feeder roads is behind schedule and will reach only 50 percent
of target because of a financial shortfall.   Land settlement will achieve
only about 90 percent of the project target because of unavailability of
suitable land. With respect to the livestock component, the vaccination
campaign is proceeding well.
Cr No. 188     Humera Agriculture Project; US$3.1 million Credit of
May 28, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1973,
postponed to December 31, 1974.
The project is progressing well, but is behind appraisal schedule
by about one year, due mainly to delays in procurement of heavy road con-
struction equipment and delays in installation of the Humera water system,
which had to be undertaken by force account construction due to non-
availability of contractors. Construction of facilities on the project
farm is satisfactory. Consultant's study on the second phase project was
submitted to the Government in February.
Cr No. 243     Education II Project; US$9.5 million Credit of May 6, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Project implementation is about twelve months behind appraisal
schedule. However, implementation is accelerating and the project is
expected to be completed by August 1975 about two months beyond the original
schedule. The Education Sector Survey has already been completed.
Cr No. 269     Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project; US$4.4 million
Credit of August 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Credit was slow in becoming effective because of recruitment
problems. Overall progress is satisfactory but behind schedule. Project
costs have risen substantially since appraisal, and devaluation of the
dollar has reduced the value of IDA financing. An estimate of what can be
accomplished within the financial constraints must await receipt of firm
quotations on equipment for expansion of the diary plant component.



ANNEX II
Page 5 ol' 6
Cr No. 290     Coffee Processing Project; US$6.3 million Credit of
March 20, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
There were delays in obtaining Parliamentary approval and re-
cruiting key staff, and the credit was declared effective only on
December 15, 1972. While the project is still in the initial stz:ges
of implementation, procurement of road construction and coffee processing
equipment is well underway and project implementation is gaining momentum.
Ln No. 818     Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$10.8 mil-
lion Loan of May 1, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Project implementation is running eight to twelve months behind
the appraisal schedule. A revised estimate, based on recent tenders, indi-
cates a possible project cost over-run of about 50%. Alternatives for
reducing project costs are being considered. The AWSA and the Ministry of
Finance are to investigate means of meeting the financing gap and submit
proposals to the Bank.
Cr No. 304     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project; US:'l1.0
million Credit of May 10, 1972; Closing Date: December 31,
1976.
The credit became effective on October 25, 1972. The industrial
portion of the credit has been fully committed. Authorizations for agri-
cultural projects are proceeding more slowly with $1.9 million committed
to (late. The report on the agricultural credit survey is under preparation
by the consultants.
Cr No. 332     Fifth Highway Project:   US$17.0 million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The credit did not become effective until July 24, 1973 due to
delays in Parliamentary ratification and in the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the required legal opinions. The engineering consultants have
been selected, contractor prequalification has been completed, and bids
for civil works are under review. Bid costs were approximately 80% above
estimates, and Government and Bank are currently reviewing the course to
be followed under those circumstances. Delay up to this time (the project
is 9 months to a year behind appraisal report estimates) is due to delays
in credit effectiveness and delay in the selection of consultants, as well
as the requirement for additional site investigations to eliminate the use
of expensive crushed stone material.
Cr No. 365     Second Livestock Project; US$5.0 million Credit of
April 2, 1973; Closing Date: July 15, 1977.
Senior project staff have been appointed and tender documents for
the 60 project items to be constructed during first project year was under
preparation during last RMEA supervision mission in late 1973.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr No. 416     Agricultural Minimum Package Project; US$21.0 million
Credit of July 5, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The credit became effective on April 15, 1974.
Cr No. 417     Third Education Project; US$10.0 million Credit of
July 5, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Credit is not yet effective; the terminal date for effective-
ness has been postponed to July 31, 1974 due to delays in Parliamentary
ratification.
Cr No. 418     Amibara Irrigation Project:   US$17.0 million Credit
of July'5, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The credit is not yet effective; the terminal date for effective-
ness has been postponed to July 31, 1574 due to delays in Parliamentary
ratification.
Cr No. 453     Telecommunications V Project; US$24.4 million Credit
of January 17, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The credit is not yet effective; the terminal date for effective-
ness has been postponed to July 31, 1974 due to delays in Parliamentary
ratification.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA - DROUGHT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT ANI PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Empire of Ethiopia.
Beneficiary:        The Office of the Chief Commissioner for
Drought Relief and Rehabilitation.
Amount:             US$10 million equivalent.
Terms:              Standard.
Project Description:The project would comprise the following components:
(i) Assistance to the OCDRR for project preparation
and implementation;
(ii) Construction of rural roads;
(iii) Provision of rural water supplies;
(iv) Execution of a comprehensive pilot
settlement project;
(v) Execution of data collection activities,
surveys etc. to gather information for the
preparation of additional projects;
(vi) Implementation of an agricultural research
program;
(vii) Implementation of a cottage industry program;
(viii) Construction of health facilities;
(ix) Construction of roads, trails, water supply
facilities and simple irrigation works in the
northeast rangelands.
Purpose:            To assist in the rehabilitation of the agricultural
economy in the drought affected areas of Tigre and Wollo
Provinces, and to help create the basis for the long
term economic development of these same areas.
Estimated Cost:     The total of the proejct is estimated at US$10.0 million,
cost with a foreign exchange component of about US$6.8
million or 68 percent.



AMNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(US$'000 equivalent)
Item                               Local          Foreign      Total
(a)  Project Preparaticn                   40             200        240
(b)  Rural Roads                          120           1,400      1,520
(c)  Rural Water Supplias                 250           1,250      1,500
(d)  Pilot Settlement Project in Wollo    650             400      1,050
(e)  Surveys for Project Preparation       60             300        360
(f)  Research                             100             450        550
(g)  Crafts/Cottage Industries            130              50        180
(h)  Health Facilities                    400             400        800
(i)  Northeast Rangelands                 850             550      1,400
2,600           5,000      7,600
(j)  Contingencies                        600           1,800      2,400
Total                         3,200           6 800      10,000
Financing Plan:          The IDA credit will finance 100'% of. project costs,
exclusive of duties and taxes.
Estimated
Disbursements:         Fiscal Years            US$ millions
1975                      3.4
1976                      4.6
1977                      2.0
Procurement
Arrangements:          Procurement of equipment for the road construction
units and the water drilling program would be by
international competitive bidding; items costing
less than US$30,000 would be purchased under Govern-
ment's procurement procedures. Local procurement of
goods and services would be in accordance with
Government's procurement procedures.
Appraisal Report:        Report No. 444a-ET, dated June 7, 1974, Eastern
Africa Projects Department, Agricultural
Division.



