Report No. 444a-ET                                                          FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project
Ethiopia
June 7, 1974
General Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Region
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY  SUIVLENTS
Currency Unit          Ethiopian Dollar (Eth$)
Eth$1.00               Us$0.483
Eth$l million          US$483,0OO
Eth$2.07               US$1.00
'WEIGHTS AND NEASURES
(Metric System)
1 Quintal (ql)  -  100 kg  =  0.1 ton
ABBREVIATIONS
EPID    -    Extension and Project Implementation Division
IEG     -    Imperial Ethiopian Government
ITS     -    Intexmediate Technology Services
LMB     -    Livestock and Meat Board
0DM     -    Ministry of Overseas Development
OCDRR   -    Office of the Commissioner for Drought Relief
and Rehabilitation
NWRC    -    National Water Resources Commission
PPD     -    Planning and Prograzmming Division
PRG     -    Project Review Group
TDO     -    Tigre Development Organization
WFP     -    World Food Program
IAR     -    Institute of Agricultural Research
IMPERIAL ETHIOPIAN GOVEhNMNT
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUIMARY AND CONCLUSICNS ,............................        i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTICK ...................................                1
II.   BACKGROUND ......... ..................................         1
A.  Physical Setting .................................         1
B. The Agricultural Sector.                                    2
C. The Drought...                                              4
D. Relief Effort.                       .         .            5
III.  THE PROJECT  .................,......................           7
A. Objectives . .                                              7
B. Main Features...                                            8
C. The Project Area                . . .8
D.  Project Components .. .        ..... . .... . ....        10
a. Rural Roads          ...............                   11
b.  Kural Water Development .................... ..       13
c. North-East Rangelands ......   ..................      14
d.  Integrated Pilot Project .................. ...1 6
e.  Project Preparation ......   ....................     18
f. Surveys and Technical Data Collection ........         19
g. Research        ...................................    20
h.  Crafts/Small Industries ................... ...       21
i.  Health Centers and Facilities ...    .............    22
j.  Other Subprojects .......   .....................     22
IV.   FINANCING ARRANGEMETs ........... ...................          22
A. Project Costs .        .. ...............                  22
B.  Procurement and Disbursement .....................        24
C.  Accounting and Auditing ......   ...................      25
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...... ....................        25
VI.   JUSTIFICATION ..      ......................................   27
VII.  RECOMMENDATICOS. . .                     .                     27
ANNEXES
1.    Contributions to Drought Relief by Country/Organization
2.    Proposed Wollo Pilot Project .
3.    Details of Project Costs .........................
4.    Disbursement .        . . .............. .,
5.    Statistical Tables ..       .................
MAPS






ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT AREAS RErABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        During the past three years, many parts of Ethiopia have suffered
from a drought of unprecedented proportions. Among the provinces which
have been particularly hard hit are Tigre and Wollo, in which about half
the population have been affected. The drought has also caused a consi-
derable decimation of livestock and, as a result, hit the nomadic people
for whom it is a main source of suwtenance, and has also sharply reduced
the supply of work oxen, thereby hampering the recovery of agricultural
production. Various bilateral and multilateral agencies and also private
organizations--particularly church groups--are assisting the Ethiopian
Government's relief operations and also some of its longer-term measures.
ii.       Although the failure of rains over three successive years is the
inmediate cause of the suffering, the problem has been compounded by some
longer-standing developments, particularly deforestation and consequent
soil erosion. The present system of land tenure--particularly in Wollo
where tenancy and sharecropping are common--which is heavily weighed in
favor of landlords has also added to the problem. The absence even of a
rudimentary rural road network in Wollo has seriously complicated relief
operations, but the situation in Tigre is relatively favorable. Given
the formidable task of relief and rehabilitation,,the Government has done
well to contain famine, prevent starvation deaths and establish basic
medical facilities in the relief camps. In this regard, external assistance
has been a very important factor.
iii.      During the past three months the most significant development has
been the appointment of a new Council of Ministers following the resignation
of the old Government in response to widespread public dissatisfaction. The
new Government is giving the highest priority to drought related programs
and has declared its intention to introduce radical land reform. Attention
is also being given to the task of building up a more effective administration
at the provincial level to make it more responsive to local needs.
iv.       The Project would supplement the assistance which various donors
are providing to the Government in its efforts to facilitate the resumption
by the victims of drought of basic productive activities   It would also create
the basis for longer-term programs for the drought areas through integrated
projects which will simultaneously address the various physical, institutional,
and tenurial problems which are contributing to rural poverty.
v.        The Project would comprise rural roads, rural water supplies,
an integrated pilot settlement project, an interim program for the north-
east rangelands, surveys and technical data collection for settlement and



-2-
resettlement programs, assistance for project preparation, farming systems
research, craft/small industry development, and the establishment of health
centers and facilities. Some of the Project components will benefit the
imediate relief/rehabilitation effort, while others relate more closely to
the longer-term programs. Considerable emphasis is being laid on project
preparation with the objective of generating a series of new integrated
projects for the highland areas.
vi.       The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$10.0 million
equivalent of which foreign costs amount to US$6.8 million equivalent or
68% of the total. In view of the present financial stringency in Ethiopia
and to insure prompt project implementation, it is proposed that the
Association would provide the entire cost of the Project, net of duties
and taxes.
vii.      Procurement of equipment for the road construction units and
the water drilling program, and other items costing US$30,000 equivalent
or more would be by international competitive bidding. Items costing
less that US$30,000 equivalent would be purchased under the Government's
standard procurement procedures which are satisfactory.
viii      In view of the diverse nature of the program and the need for
responding promptly to an emergency, no attempt has been made to provide
a detailed economic justification. The subprojects which respond to the
relatively long-term needs would probably generate economic benefits on
an acceptable scale. The subprojects which address the more iimediate
relief/rehabilitation problems have an important qualitative significance.
ix.       The newly created Office of the Commissioner for Drought Belief
and Rehabilitation will be responsible for project implementation. In
this task it will have the assistance of all the concerned Government
Mtinistries and semi-governmental agencies.
X.        During negotiations appropriate assurances were obtained.
The Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$10.0 million.



ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Imperial Ethiopian Government (IEG) has requested the assistance
of IDA for a project which will meet some of the immediate needs and also lay
the basis for the longer-term rehabilitation of some parts of Ethiopia, parti-
cularly the Provinces of Tigre and Wollo, which have been affected by a severe
drought during the past three years.
1.02      Under the project, lines of credit would be extended for subprojects,
some of which will help meet immediate requirements - particularly rural pene-
tration roads, and ground and surface water development - and others which
through surveys, technical data collection, research and intensified project
preparation will enable Ethiopia to minimize the adverse effects of future
droughts. The project will complement the efforts of bilateral and other
multilateral donors, private organizations and church groups which have on-
going programs for emergency relief e. g., food and medical assistance and,
in some cases, also programs of a longer-term nature. A credit of US$10.0
million is proposed for the project. The support for intensified project
preparation is expected to generate a series of new integrated projects for
the highlands, the first of which will be submitted to the Bank Group within
the next 12-15 months.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Ethiopia in February/March and included Messrs. K. G. V. Krishna and G. R.
Henderson (from headquarters) and W. Schaefer-Kehnert, A.T. Martin, B. Wilson,
S. Hayden and E.F.J. Quicke (from RMEA). The mission received valuable
information from various agencies of the United Nations which are operating
in Ethiopia under the overall guidance of UNDP, and also from several agencies
of IEG, particularly those under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agri-
culture, and the National Water Resources Commission.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Physical Setting
2.01      Ethiopia has a total land area of about 1.2 million km , made up of
a central highland mass surrounded by lowlands. Topography, climate, soils and
natural vegetation vary sharply from area to area, with consequent variation
in agricultural possibilities. Soil erosion of a serious nature has occured
in many areas since these have lost their original vegetation as a result of
many centuries of human settlement -although the process has been accelerated
during the past few decades- but some areas, particularly in the south and
west are in a relatively favorable situation because settlement was prevented
by diseases such as malaria and trypanosomiasis.



- 2 -
2.02      The highland area comprises about 500,000 km  or just under half
the area of the country. In the northern provinces, topography is extremely
rugged and a large part of the land has little agricultural value. The
plateau areas are dominated by mountain ranges rising to over 4,000 m. As
expected in a country with such a wide range of altitude and latitude (from
below sea level to over 4,000 m and from 4° N to 18° N), the climate is very
varied. Altitude, exposure to rain-bearing winds and other factors not yet
fully understood produce regional rainfall patterns distinct from the gradual
transition, from equatorial bimodal to tropical monomodal regimes, which
might be expected when passing from south to north. The southeast lowlands
receive less than 300 mm of rainfall per annum, with peaks in April and
October.
2.03      Three types of soil predominate in the highland area, two of which
have been degraded to a varying degree following long periods of cultivation.
On the better drained sloping areas of the south, red to reddish brown clays
and clay loams of basaltic origin and excellent inherent fertility predominate;
of good permeability, they are leached in wetter areas, and have suffered con-
siderable erosion. In the north, where the topography is more uneven, soils
are generally of limestone origin, sandy textured and almost invariably eroded
to a stony condition. In the flat plateau and valley bottom regions, the soils
are grey to black clays generally of high nutrient status, but with cropping
potential limited by poor internal drainage. The soils of the lowlands vary
between the grey-black cracking clays of the western lowlands to the grey-brown
sandy loams of the Rift Valley, interspersed with the alluvial sediments and
dark clay loams found in the Awash valley. As expected in a country with such
variations in climate, topography and soils, Ethiopia has many types of natural
vegetation, ranging from the desert scrub of lowland areas, below 1,000 m and
receiving less than 300 mm of rainfall per annum, to alpine heath and moorland
which exists above the 3,500 m contour. Between these two extreme types,
which can be put to very limited use, there are six major ecological regions
with substantial agricultural potential.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Main Features
2.04      The agricultural sector is distinguished by wide climatic and ecolog-
ical diversity which allows a large variety of crops to be grown. The peasant
farmers possess a high level of traditional agricultural skill, but many of
them do not have holdings of an adequate size and also security of tenure.
Besides, they are not adequately served by rural roads, credit, seeds, fertilizers
and other farming inputs, and also extension, marketing and veterinary services.
Thus the peasant sector which, barring a few intensive projects, is largely
untouched by modern technology, is characterized by low productivity. Al-
though 8 out of every 10 Ethiopians are peasant farmers, agriculture contributed



- 3 -
only about 52% of GDP in 1972. The per capita GDP in 1972 was only US$80, or
in the bottom range of the African countries. Average total annual farm
family output (at farm prices) is less than Eth$300 (US$140), and 75% of
this represents subsistence consumption. The total value of agricultural
output in 1972 was about Eth$2,200 million; cereals, coffee and other crops
accounted for 71% and livestock and livestock products for the remaining 29%.
2.05      Agricultural products have regularly made up 90% of total exports;
coffee contributes a little over 50% of this, and the other major contributors
are oilseeds and cakes (14%), pulses (8%), hides and skins (14%), and animals,
meat, fruits and vegetables (12%). Imports of agricultural products were
valued at about Eth$33 million in 1972; food and live animals accounted for
66% of these exports, cotton for about 15% and miscellaneous items the rest.
2.06      The Third Five Year Development Plan is scheduled to be completed
in 1973/74 and a Fourth Plan is now under preparation. During the Third Plan
period agricultural output was expected to grow by 2.9% a year, but actual
growth is estimated at only 2.5% a year, about the same as the rate of popula-
tion increase. This may be explained in part by the fact that the planned
investment target for agriculture was not met. The drop in coffee prices
in the initial years and a decline in the inflow of private capital contributed
largely to the slowdown in investment.
The Livestock Subsector
2.07      Prior to the drought Ethiopia's vast livestock resources included
about 26 million cattle, 12 million sheep, 11 million goats, 1.4 million
horses, 1.4 million mules, 3.8 million donkeys and 1 million camels. Owing
to disease and also the shortage of grazing and water annual losses tend
to be high, but overall numbers have probably grown steadily over the years.
The drought has resulted in a considerable decimation of livestock. In 1972,
livestock products contributed about 29% of total agricultural output (beef
10%, other meat 5%, milk 8%, hides and skins 1% and others 5%). It is
estimated that total export vaLue of livestock and livestock products in 1972
was about Eth$67 million.
2.08      There are many constraints to livestock development; insecure land
tenure arrangements deprive the farmer of incentives to control stocking, to
plant fodder crops, improve pasture, or develop stock watering facilities.
Diseases are a further constraint; it is estimated that 1.2 million cattle and
2.0 million goats and sheep (mostly young) are lost to disease each year.
Uncontrolled grazing and stock breeding have denuded vast areas of rangelands
and the scarcity of water has become a very serious problem. The cattle are
traditionally viewed as a supply of work-oxen rather than as a source of
money income in the highlands and as a source of food (milk) in the nomadic
areas; this attitude would have to change before modern livestock management
could have a major impact among peasant farmers.



-4-
C. The Drought
2.09      Many parts of Ethiopia have experienced drought from time to time.
These include the Provinces of Eritrea, Tigre, Gemu Gofa and llarrarge and,
less frequently, Wollo. These Provinces have suffered both from the inadequacy
of rainfall and its unraliability.  But the recent drought is different from
earlier ones with regard to its longevity and the extent of suffering that it
has caused. The recent drought has also highlighted the need to look beyond
the failure of rains in the immediate period - particularly the serious
environmental deterioration which has taken place over the years - to get a
proper perspective on some of the longer-term aspects concerning the drought.
2.10      Some indications of impending trouble started appearing as early as
in 1970-71. In that year there was some localized drought in Wollo. The
early "belg" rains (February-Nay) in 1972 were adequate, but the long rains
June-July) were disappointing. The rains were scant during sowing, but vir-
tually failed during crop flowering. Crop yields were low and grazing in the
range areas was very inadequate. Rainfall was very uneven in Tigre and con-
siderable crop variations occurred. The Provinces of Shoa, Harrarge and Gemu
Gofa also suffered at this time.
2.11      The difficulty caused by rainfall deficiency in 1970-72 did not cause
any alarm because it was by no means unusual and the suffering was localized
and hence its dimensions were not fully known to the authorities. But the
failure of the "belg" rains in 1973 over most of Ethiopia brought about a
dramatic worsening of the situation. Parts of Wollo and Tigre which had already
suffered from deficient rains in 1970-72 were particularly badly affected since,
during the entire belg period, they had only four days of rain. The result
was widespread failure of the belg crop (only 20-25% of the average harvest)
which normally provided 20% of total consumption. The failure of the belg
rains marks the beginning of a serious deterioration in the food situation.
Because of poor crops in the previous year, and in the hope that the belg
period in 1973 might be more productive, most of the reserve food had been
consumed. When the belg rains failed and yielded only a fraction of the crop,
this was immediately consumed leaving no grain for seed. Moreover, the drought
resulted in a serious shortage of grass and fodder with the result that large
numbers of work-oxen died or became too emaciated for work. Thus by the
second quarter of 1973 famine loomed large in many parts of Ethiopia, people
had no more food to eat and were moving out in search of help (often too
emaciated even to reach a source of help and dying in the process) and women
and children were being left to fend for themselves. Because of the isolation
of many areas -some places which can sometimes be reached by small aircraft in
20-30 minutes take as much as 5-7 days to reach by foot or by mule partic-
ularly in Wollo, it was difficult even to size up the problem or provide
prompt assistance (Tigre, by contrast, fared relatively better).



- 5 -
2.12      Information concerning the impact of the drought in terms of numbers
affected, numbers who have received relief, and deaths due to starvation is
incomplete. Information is even more deficient with regard to losses of
work-oxen in the agricultural areas and the decimation of livestock in the
nomadic areas. Nevertheless, even the approximate figures that have been
put together by the authorities confirm a grim tragedy. Of the 4.2 million
people in Wollo and Tigre about 2.0 million were victims of the drought and
some 1.2 million received relief of one kind or another. In Wollo Province
alone, some 63,000 people lived in relief camps at the height of the famine.
The number in relief camps in Tigre was smaller because official policy
(facilitated largely by the existence of a rudimentary rural road network)
was to provide relief when required in the areas in which people lived. The
number of children and adults in the camps has tended to be equal, with women
accounting for a larger proportion among the adults. Many families sold their
land, animals or other belongings to buy food and now face a very difficult
task in reestablishing themselves even if they can regain possession of their
land or reestablish their status as tenents or sharecroppers. Estimates of
human lives lost range from 50,000-100,000.
2.13      In both Provinces, the loss of work-oxen is a serious problem.  It
is estimated that some 20-25% of the work-oxen have been lost with others being
too emaciated to be of any use. The loss of work-oxen implies that farming
will, be reduced until the numbers are built back. In Tigre, it is estimated
that about 60% of the arable land was not planted during June-July 1973 because
of the lack of work-oxen.
2.14      The problems of the nomads deserve a special mention.  These people
who lived in an environment which was essentially harsh, were so dependent on
their livestock both for food and as a means of exchange for other basic re-
quirements that a severe depletion of livestock numbers has hit them particul-
arly hard. It is estimated that 80% of their cattle, 50% of sheep, 30% each
of camels and goats have died causing a serious food problem since they depended
very largely on milk as their staple diet. Relief has been slow to reach them
because of their isolation. When some grain was provided to them eventually,
they had difficulty in making a major switch in their dietary habits, although
this is considered desirable from a nutritional point of view. In the meantime,
many had to sell their remaining animals and few belongings in order to buy
food.
D. Relief Effort
2.15      When the grim details of human suffering began to unfold, IEG set
up in April 1973 an Interministerial National Emergency Relief Committee and
assigned to it the task of mounting an immediate relief program in the drought
affected areas. The Committee deals with domestic contributions, external
assistance, food and seed grain distribution, water supply, health, transport
tariff, price control, inspection and government employees fund raising, all



- 6 -
within the context of relief programs. To assist the National Committee to
carry out an efficient relief program, committees were also set up at the
provincial level. Provincial representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture,
Public Health and National Community Development, representatives of private
organizations and religious groups and local elders were appointed members
of these committees. Ad hoc committees dealing with registration, allocation,
shelter construction, as well as children and specialized activities were
also established. The provincial administration of Wollo was strengthened
by seconding senior officials from Addis Ababa. Thirteen relief centers were
opened in Wollo and eight in Tigre. Because of the inaccessibility of many
of the drought areas, particularly in Wollo, relief centers had to be opened
near the highways. When people from the interior moved close to these centers
in large numbers, the existing shelters, food and medical supplies, adminis-
trative and medical staff proved inadequate.
2.16      An assessment of the extent of the drought and the magnitude of
assistance required was made by the National Committee which showed that IEG's
own program needed to be supplemented to a large extent. The Committee, there-
fore, sought the assistance of UNDP, FAO, UNICEF and various bilateral and
domestic sources. Among the important initial responses to the appeal for
food were those of WFP (10,000 MT of grain plus internal transportation costs)
and USAID (10,600 MT of wheat). A sum of Eth$6.0 million was raised from
domestic sources. Details of all relief assistance until the end of January
1974 are provided in Annex 1. In addition to the UN organizations and various
bilateral donors, special mention should be made of various voluntary agencies,
OXFAM, Swedish and Norwegian Save the Children Funds and the National Christian
Relief Committee representing various religious groups.
2.17      Relief operations have focussed mainly on food, health and water.
The most important activity is the provision of food and associated elements
such as storage and transport facilities. An equally important item is the
provision of medicines and medical personnel, blankets, milk powder and
rehabilitative foods. Efforts are also being made to develop or augment
potable water supplies particularly, but not exclusively, to the relief camps.
The combined result of all these efforts has been to reduce the loss of lives
due to starvation and disease. However, the formidable task of rehabilitation
was assigned to a second Interministerial Committee on Rehabilitation, appointed
in November 1973, to prepare short-term recovery programs and also medium-term
rehabilitation programs for the drought areas. Among the more immediate re-
quirements of the rehabilitation program, seed for planting is being provided
by the U.K., Germany (both directly and through FAO) and Sweden. The U.K.
and Germany are also financing the purchase of work oxen for distribution to
farmers whose animals died during the drought. It was understood that the
requirements of these items would largely be met by the bilateral sources
noted above, but more detailed information which is now becoming available
indicates that these items may be in short supply, thereby necessitating
further assistance.



-7-
2.18      Following the unsettled conditions in the country in February and
March which led to the resignation of the existing government and the appoint-
ment of a new one in its place, it was announced by the latter that the drought
would be dealt with as a matter of the highest priority. In April, the new
government established a Relief and Rehabilitation Commission at Cabinet level,
with a Commissioner for Relief and Rehabilitation as the chief executive officer.
The Office of the Commissioner for Drought Relief and Rehabilitation (OCDRR)
will receive and channel all external assistance for drought programs. Pro-
fessional staff representing various types of expertise are being seconded to
OCDRR and technical assistance personnel for drought programs will be attached
to it. A team representative of various types of expertise - the Project
Review Group (PRG) - is being set up within OCDRR to evaluate all drought
related programs, provide overall guidance and review project Implementation.
Details concerning PRG are provided in paragraph 3.38.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The project would over two and a half years (i) supplement the assist-
ance which various donors are providing to IEG in its efforts to facilitate
the resumption by the victims of drought in Tigre and Wollo of basic productive
activities as part of the rehabilitation process, and (ii) create the basis
for a long-term program for the drought areas based on integrated projects
which will simultaneously address the various physical, institutional, admin-
istrative and tenurial problems which have hitherto hampered development and
contributed to rural poverty. The project also aims to strengthen the
mechanism for project preparation and implementation, largely through a more
systematic use of expertise presently available in Ethiopia but, to the ex-
tent necessary, supplementing it from the outside. It is expected that the
experience gained through the project in dealing both with the short-term
and longer-term aspects of the drought in Tigre and Wollo will assist IEG in
dealing with the problems of other parts of Ethiopia which are also experi-
encing drought.
3.02      Under the project, lines of credit would be agreed for a number of
subprojects which will achieve the above objectives. The subprojects are inter-
related but each meets a distinct need and could proceed even if the implemen-
tation of others happens to be relatively slow. The subprojects will be
discrete so as to permit the prompt implementation of measures aimed at re-
turning people to the land and restoring food production for subsistence.
There would be flexibility in the use of funds earmarked for broad categories.
For example, funds for water development could be used for water spreading
schemes in the range areas, digging wells in the highlands or even for small-
scale water retention schemes or irrigation.



B. Main Features
3.03      Although the proposed project is intended principally to respond
to the needs of the drought, some of its components have significance also
for any long-term strategy for the development of the highlands. Its most
important feature is that, through these components, it attempts to deal
simultaneously with the physical problems which are constraining development
and also the problem of inadequate land for most farmers resulting largely
from the concentration of ownership among a limited number of people. On
the physical side, the situation caused by the failure of the rains has been
made worse by some of the longer-standing problems such as deforestation
and the cultivation of mountain slopes resulting in soil erosion, and a
generally inefficient pattern of land use. These problems have been compounded
by a land tenure which is heavily weighted in favor of large landowners and
is characterized by insecure tenancy, burdensome sharecropping and under-
utilization of the land potential. These problems would continue to depress
agricultural productivity and rural living standards even if the quantum and
frequency of rainfall were to improve in the coming years. The problems which
are equally relevant for the immediate, medium- or long-term period can only
be dealt with as part of an integrated program of land and water use planning
and development of which the project marks a beginning. The project has re-
organization of land holdings as one of its central themes. Land reorganiz-
ation would involve the subdivision of large holdings into economic family
size units and also the enlargement of sub-economic farms into similarly
economic family size units. It would also involve the cessation of cultivation
on steep slopes and the introduction of terracing, contour farming and similar
soil conservation practices where appropriate and necessary for crop cultivation.
The proposed project would therefore mark the beginning of a many-faceted
attack on the physical, administrative, institutional, and tenurial problems
which have for long contributed to rural poverty in Ethiopia. The drought
has highlighted the need for a major initiative of this kind, and the new
government, responding to widespread public dissatisfaction with the present
state of affairs, has made a policy statement that it is prepared to take
such an initiative.
C. The Project Area
3.04      The area proposed for project operation comprises those parts of
Tigre and Wollo Provinces which were affected by the drought. The major
south-north highway from Addis Ababa to Asmara and the port of Massawa runs
the entire length of the Provinces. These two Provinces have a combined pop-
ulation of 4.2 million of whom an estimated 2.0 million were affected by the
drought. The number of people who have received relief at one time or another
is about 1.2 million (670,000 in Wollo and 500,000 in Tigre.)



- 9 -
3.05      For purposes of agricultural production these two Provinces can be
considered as comprising four zones: (i) Tigre cropped areas, (ii) Wollo
highland areas, (iii) Wollo inter-montane cropping areas, and (iv) nomadic
(rangeland) areas. Over most of Tigre there is only one cropping season a
year. In the Wollo highland areas there are two cropping seasons based on
the short rains (belg) in February/March and the long rains in June/July with
the harvests in June and November/December respectively. In the inter-montane
region the general pattern is to harvest one crop a year. In the nomadic
areas (both in Tigre and Wollo) no food is grown. The basic diet is milk
(and some meat) and small quantities of grain, bought through sales of live-
stock or livestock products. Livestock in the nomadic areas include camels,
cattle, goats, and sheep.
3.06      Much of the area of Tigre and Wollo is made up of highly dessicated
and eroded plateaus where serious soil erosion has occurred, thereby necessi-
tating conservation measures on an urgent basis to prevent further deteriora-
tion. Many of the forests have been destroyed to make room for cultivation.
After the older and bigger trees are felled, the need for firewood in the
subsequent period results in cutting younger trees at an accelerated rate,
and there is now a critical shortage of firewood in most areas. In Makele,
capital of Tigre Province, firewood costs Eth$1.50-2.00 per donkey load. In
many areas of Tigre rainfall is low and irregular, making the availability
of water a critical factor in agricultural production. While Wollo is
relatively better situated with regard to rainfall, droughts were not unknown
before the present drought occurred. There exists a good potential for under-
ground water in both the Provinces, as well as water from streams provided
that catchments are treated to reduce siltation and other effects of rapid
runoff. Both Tigre and Wollo are densely populated (Tigre with 52 persons
per km2 as compared to the national average of 20 per km2 is a food deficit
area generally). Since there is virtually no unused arable land, increased
agricultural production can only be obtained through the intensification of
land use. However, incomes are so low that most peasant farmers are unable
to make investments which would increase productivity. In Tigre the land
tenure is communal, leading to continued fragmentation, whereas in Wollo
tenancy and sharecropping are common phenomena. There has been some migration
from both these Provinces.
3.07      In the lowlands, there are about 200,000km2 of thornbush and Acacia
and Compretum savanna areas which have prospects for livestock development -
with carrying capacities of one Livestock Unit per two to five ha. At present
these areas are utilized by nomadic pastoralists on an extensive basis dictated
by availability of water and grazing for cattle, sheep, goats, and about one
million camels.  Mortality is high, productivity is low and offtake rates of
4% to 6% reflect the subsistence nature of this part of the livestock sub-
sector, and overgrazing is a problem - particularly near water supplies. In
the greater part of the lowlands, the agricultural development potential is
limited to extensive beef, sheep and goat production since rainfall is
inadequate to support crops, although in a number of valleys there are pos-
sibilities for irrigated crop production.



- 10 -
3.08      A most serious by-product of further exploitation of marginal lands
would be the aggravation of the already severe soil erosion.  Pressure on the
land has resulted in major ecological deterioration via the progressive short-
ening of fallow periods, clearing and cultivation of all but the most precipitous
slopes, almost total removal of tree cover, and the degradation of soil structure
due to loss of organic matter following prolonged, nearly continuous, cropping.
Erosion control measures must be taken as a matter of high priority since
without them, benefits from improved seeds, fertilizers and other new produc-
tion practices will be greatly reduced.
D. Project Components
3.09      Following detailed discussions with IEG, and taking into account
assistance already offered or under consideration by other donors, the sub-
project groups noted below are considered priority items for IDA assistance:
a.   equipment and technical assistance for rural road
construction and maintenance;
b.   equipment and personnel for rural water development
under the auspices of NWRC;
c.   a two-year interim program for the development of the north-
east rangelands, including roads/tracks, the development of
stock water, and water spreading for crop production and
pasture;
d.   an integrated pilot settlement project in Wollo Province
which will be prepared by the Project Review Group (PRG
referred to below) at an early date after the effectiveness
of the Credit;
e.   technical assistance, office and survey equipment,
vehicles and supporting expenditure for OCDRR;
f.   surveys, technical data collection and planning to
serve as a basis for the reorganization of land holdings
and resettlement in Wollo and Tigre Provinces, and
possibly the settlement of surplus population from these
Provinces in Wollega and Illubabor Provinces;
g.   peasant farming systems research by the Institute of
Agricultural Research in close association with the
pilot settlement project referred to in (d) above, but
not limited to it;



- 11 -
h.   craft/cottage industry development for the benefit of
women and older children who cannot be rehabilitated in
agriculture; and
i.   establishment of health centers and facilities in Tigre
and Wollo Provinces.
a.   Rural Roads
3.10      The term rural roads includes penetration, feeder/access and farm-
to-market roads. Rural roads can be constructed with a maximum input of
labor and only moderate amounts of equipment.
3.11      In Tigre rural road construction has proceeded steadily during the
past decade. The program, which is highly labor-intensive, has been directed
personally by the Governor General of the Province, and the Tigre Development
Organization (TDO, a semi-official body) has acquired the ability to ensure
its continuation. Some 2,600 km of rural roads have already been constructed,
including construction through a food-for-work program in the immediately
preceding period. This road network proved to be of inestimable value in
minimizing the impact of the drought since food, medical supplies, and govern-
ment services generally could be made available to the people of Tigre in an
efficient and expeditious manner. TDO plans to construct 300-500 km of
similar roads per year for at least the next five years. Wollo Province does
not have a similar road building organization and as a result no basic rural
road network exists. The drought has highlighted this serious deficiency.
A quick review of needs in this regard was conducted by officials of the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Imperial Highway Authority (IHA) and has
resulted in the identification of about 1,500 km of rural roads to be built
during the next 3-4 years. No national or even provincial organization exists
to carry out road construction but some work is proceeding under the food-for
work program under the auspices of missionary organizations, The British
Royal Engineers, the Livestock and Meat Board and the Ministry of Agriculture.
3.12      The range of support which has already been negotiated for the rural
road program in Wollo and Tigre is impressive. The United Kingdom's Ministry
of Overseas Development (ODM) is expected to provide a senior road engineer,
two fully equipped and staffed road building units and one road maintenance
unit. Staff and equipment from the U.K., in association with assistance from
other sources noted below, could form the nucleus of a provincial road building
organization in Wollo. Funds for rural roads have been included in the Bank-
financed Minimum Package Project (MPP) which would develop three areas in each
of the two Provinces. The Lower Adiabo Project in Tigre which has been nego-
tiated with IEG also includes a rural road component. Funds have also been
provided in the Bank-financed Fifth Highway Project for technical assistance
(24 man-months) for the establishment of a rural road program. Finally, the
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) is recruiting up to five road
construction personnel for assignment to Ethiopia.



- 12 -
3.13      In view of the varied auspices under which assistance for rural
development is being provided and the absence as yet of an appropriate agency
to provide overall guidance for the rural roads program, particularly in Wollo,
it is important that a Rural Roads Task Force be established as soon as pos-
sible along the lines recommended by the Planning Commission Office (PCO).
It is proposed that the Task Force should utilize the technical assistance
for which provision has been made under the Bank-financed Fifth Highway
Project. While the Task Force would meet an important need, it cannot
substitute for a provincial rural roads organization in Wollo which has to
be created to assume responsibility for road construction and also for the
maintenance of roads and road-building equipment. The senior roads engineer
who is expected to be provided by ODM should assist the Task Force in pro-
posing priority roads for approval by PRG and in implementing the road pro-
gram in Wollo, pending the establishment of a provincial road organization
with which he would be closely associated. The Tigre provincial authorities
would be responsible both for determining road priorities in Tigre (subject
to approval by PRG in connection with its review of rural road subprojects)
and for undertaking construction. The Task Force would be represented on the
Project Review Group referred to in paragraph 3.09(d) above.
3.14      The proposed project would enable IEG to procure two additional road
construction units (equipment, operating costs and technical assistance
personnel) similar to those provided in MPP. Equipment associated with each
unit would be 6-8 dump trucks, 2 bulldozers, 1 front-end loader, 1 crusher,
6 water tankers, 2 motor graders and 1-2 vibrating rollers, but there would
be added emphasis on the use of heavy-duty 4-wheel drive agricultural tractor/
trailers. The cost of equipment is estimated to be US$500,000 per unit or
US$1.0 million for the two. Technical assistance and operating budgets for
three years would cost another US$500,000. The entire cost of this subproject
would be US$1.5 million.  The project would result in the construction and
maintenance of about 400-500 km of rural roads in Wollo and Tigre over the
next two to three years.
3.15      Various donors have provided assistance for the rural road program
(paragraph 3.12) and more is likely to follow as a result of discussions which
IEG has already held with prospective donors. The use of funds by IEG under
this subproject would therefore be subject to requirements not being met
from bilateral or other sources. The withdrawal of funds would be conditional
upon (i) the establishment of a Rural Roads Task Force and the recruitment to
it of technical assistance personnel provided under the Bank's Fifth Highway
Project, (ii) the preparation by the Task Force- pending the establishment of
a provincial road organization--of rural road construction programs in Wollo,
(iii) a review by the Task Force of the road construction plans prepared by
the Tigre provincial authorities, and (iv) provision by IEG for the maintenance
of roads constructed and also the equipment provided under the project.



- 13 -
b.   Rural Water Development
3.16      The responsibility for water development and administration is shared
between various authorities, the chief and most active being the National Water
Resources Commission (NWRC). The Soil and Water Conservation division in the
Ministry of Agriculture is assisting in planning some rural water development
such as the Adigrat Catchment Development Project, but has not yet executed
any large-scale developments. The Ministry of Mines conducts geophysical
surveys to site boreholes for other authorities and does some exploratory
drilling - at present ten wells in Tigre. Wolamo Agricultural Development
Unit, Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit and other projects have developed
surface and ground agricultural water schemes within their areas. However,
overall in Ethiopia no general rural water development has been achieved.
3.17      Many national, international and other aid agencies including
UNICEF, U.K., Gemany, Sweden, and church organizations have already initiated
as part of their relief operations programs of borehole drilling to provide
water to towns, hamlets and relief camps, within Tigre and Wollo. NWRC is
successfully coordinating these efforts into a six months program estimated to
produce 30-50 tubewells on sixteen sites from 12 drill rigs of varying ef-
ficiency and capacity.
3.18      Some areas (Chercher/Mahoney plains, Wollo by Agrohygrotechnique GMB)
have been hydrologically studied, but most drills will be sited unsurveyed,
but with general advice from NWRC and the Ministry of Mines geophysical survey
teams. ODM and German Aid is being sought for hydrological studies and pilot
schemes in Tigre and Wollo respectively within the next six months, but larger
scale development is at present uncovered.
3.19      The proposed subproject would include technical assistance to NWRC
to (i) make an inventory of water resources and assess future water require-
ments in Tigre and Wollo, (ii) execute programs which have been finalized,
and (iii) assist with project planning for the future, with a particular
emphasis on activities to be undertaken during the next two years. The post
of a surface water development engineer in NWRC is presently filled by a
short-term consultant provided by OXFAM and that of master driller also by
a short-term consultant provided by UNICEF. The proposed subproject would
provide for their services for two years from the date of effectiveness, or
earlier if present arrangements cannot be extended until that date. The
subproject would also provide two drill rigs each with an experienced driller
to supplement the programs presently being implemented in Wollo and Tigre by
NWRC or by non-Ethiopian agencies. In order to fulfill the objectives listed
above, however, additional ground water development engineers are required
at NWRC headquarters, and an effort should therefore be made to obtain them
through the concerned U.N. agencies, or bilateral or other sources.
3.20      Under the subproject, NWRC would establish two provincial operation
and maintenance centers, one in each of the two Provinces. Each center would
be headed by an engineer and would include a works superintendent, a mobile



- 14 -
maintenance crew with two vehicles, a workshop and stores. The salaries of
the above personnel (of whom the engineers would probably be expatriates)
would be included in the subproject. NWRC would identify upto six locations
for pilot projects in the rural areas of Wollo and Tigre for implementation
by the provincial centers.  Teh, _bJe    ef the pilot projects would be the
development of water resources for domestic use and, where dPi_-i -           -I
for agriculture and animal use, including alternative forms of small-scale
surface water collection and storage, small dams and the development of
springs.
3.21      The subproject would also assist the program of the Hydrological
Section of the Ministry of Mines. Included in the present work program of
this Section is the siting of water holes from hydrogeological and geophysical
data for the NWRC and various drought relief organizations, and the provision
of hydrogeological and geophysical supervision of the operations of personnel
of the NWRC. At the same time, regional hydrogeological mapping is being
concentrated in Tigre and Wollo Provinces as well as in the Nazareth area of
Shoa and Hararge Provinces where there is a serious and progressively worsen-
ing water shortage both for human and stock consumption.
3.22      Geophysical and drilling requirements of the hydrogeologists are
provided by the relevant service sections. Drilling is restricted to test
drilling, production drilling being a responsibility of the NWRC. However,
as far as possible test holes are sited where they can be used for production
purposes; the cased holes are then taken over by the NWRC.
3.23      Most of the drilling equipment is old and in poor condition.  The
United Nations has provided a Davey drill to the Ministry of Mines but the
specification was written approximately two years before drilling commenced
and costed at about one-third the eventual cost. The specification was for
the basic drill rig (not even including a spare wheel), and to enable the
equipment to be operated even at minimum efficiency in areas where hydroge-
ological investigation is being undertaken, much ancillary equipment must be
purchased. These purchases have not been allowed for under the UN Project
nor is finance available from the IEG. The subproject would provide funds
for the purchase of essential spares for this rig.
c.   Northeast Rangelands
3.24      A project for the development of the northeast rangelands was in
the early stages of preparation by the Livestock and Meat Board (LMB) wnen
the drought began to have a serious effect on the area. Some basic surveys
had been carried out, notably a livestock survey, aerial surveys, a sociologi-
cal survey and also an irrigation survey. The principal beneficiaries of the
project will be the nomadic Afar (Danakil) people who inhabit the semi-arid
and desert areas comprising the middle and lower Awash valleys and the area
to the north between the Red Sea coast and the north/south highland escarpment.



- 15 -
3.25      During years of good rainfall, the effects of overgrazing were
masked, but the last few years of low rainfall have led to a catastrophic
deterioration of the pasture areas, many of which are now so depleted that
they will have to be rested for some years to come. The drought has affected
all the lowland areas in the south, east and northeast of the country. An
aerial census carried out in three rounds in 1972 and 1973 over 29,100 sq. km
of the northeast rangelands showed severe losses of domestic stock. It is
estimated that about 80% of the cattle, 50% of the sheep and 30% each of goats
and camels have died. The number of livestock units has been reduced from
about 425,000 before the drought to an estimated 160-180 thousand at present.
3.26      Data on human population is deficient.  The best estimate is that
of the 22,000 families in the area, some 5,000 now require assistance to
survive. Some 2,500 amongst them have lost most of their livestock. The
loss of livestock has necessitated a major change in their dietary habit
since they are now required to accept grain as their staple food rather than
milk which was their principal source of sustenance before the drought.
Hundreds of nomads are now engaged in food-for-work programs, whereas they
were previously unaccustomed to hard physical labor. Some bilateral and
private support has been mobilized for a program to provide livestock to very
needy families who have lost all their animals.
3.27      IEG, assisted by various voluntary and bilateral agencies, is
providing subsistence rations and medical care to the Afars. LMB has mounted
a food-for-work road construction program and a flood irrigation scheme. Some
40 km have been completed under the road program which employs 540 Afars. The
road layout will suit long-term development. The irrigation scheme is being
developed by Intermediate Technology Services Ltd. (ITS) who have studied
specific sites following preliminary work done by Sir Alexander Gibb and
Partners. The scheme proposes to develop the small-scale irrigation potential
of some of the smaller rivers by diverting flood waters at low cost. LMB has
obtained the services of two field officers from ODM and the scheme is being
funded by the British Government. Two 30 ha schemes are currently being
developed. It is estimated that the irrigation potential is 4,000 ha of which
ITS estimates that 1,000 ha could be developed in the short run.
3.28      LIB has prepared a "Medium-Term Program for the Rehabilitation of
the Afar of the Northeast Rangelands". The project comprises the items
noted below:
(i) a food-for-work program for the construction of 500 km of
motorable tracks;
(ii)  the development of 1,000 ha of low cost flood irrigation,
based on food-for-work for the construction phase;
(iii) the development of potable water supplies for five villages;
and
(iv)  a restocking element.



- 16 -
3.29      The elements noted above, particularly items (i)-(iii) would be,
supported under the proposed credit. The restocking element will only receive
some modest support (to supplement that of other donors) in view of the serious
deterioration of pasture referred to in paragraph 3.25 above. Consideration
would be given to the inclusion of a restocking element in LMB's long-term
program which is now being prepared for possible Bank Group financing. The
long-term program would involve the establishment of controlled grazier schemes
which would benefit from disease control and marketing arrangements, thus re-
presenting a significant improvement over the present system based on subsist-
ence and with an emphasis on numbers. The present subproject is essentially
a holding operation and would supplement and expand the operations currently
being carried out in the rangelands by bilateral and other donors. The
medium-term program is fully consistent with LMB's long-term program.
3.30      The road component will provide employment to about 1,000 laborers
for two years and will result in the distribution of grain worth Eth$375,000.
The irrigation component will help develop food and some cash crops (e.g.
cotton, sesame), and also some pasture for animals. Most of the food crops
will be consumed locally, but any surplus can be easily sold. There is a
ready market for cotton. The potable water program will provide drinking
water to five villages in the area traditionally occupied by the Afars.
3.31      LMB will be responsible for implementing the subproject which is
estimated to cost US$1.4 million. The subproject cost includes the cost of
purchasing grain and milk powder for the food-for-work program. It also
includes additional staff both at headquarters and the field, some offices
and staff housing and equipment.
d.   Integrated Pilot Settlement Project
3.32      Although the focus of the proposed project is the drought and
its aftermath, it is important that some attention be paid to longer-term
requirements in the affected areas. As noted, tree-felling, insufficient
soil conservation, over-cultivation, unsatisfactory land tenure and ownership
patterns have resulted in a high man-land ratio. Decreasing water absorption
leads to increasing flash flood and soil erosion. This results in lesser
production. In this situation, free food, food for work on roads and water
supplies, provision of work oxen, settlement schemes and even the provision
of on-farm inputs will be of only transient value and a steady deterioration
towards submarginal living conditions becomes inevitable.
3.33      The nature of the problem is such that it requires a totally new
approach to development. It requires that detailed information be gathered
on numbers of farmers, including owners, tenants and share croppers, and the
number of holding as the basis of a land reorganization program to promote
economic holdings. It also requires a program of catchment improvement
including afforestation, minor irrigation and soil conservation in conjunction
with reorganization of land holdings as a basis for settlement and resettle-
ment programs. Other important inputs would be extension, credit, marketing.



- 17 -
Nutritional requirements would be taken into account in the production plans.
Some provision would also be made for employment-oriented non-agricultural
activities
3.34      The proposed project would support an integrated pilot subproject
which will provide valuable experience in planning the long-term development
of the drought affected areas. The Project Review Group would choose an area
of about 25,000-30,000 ha which is a dry farming area and has a potential for
improvement with regard to soils, crops and water supplies. The area would
be picked by a land use planner from two or more alternative areas. Photo-
graphs, maps and mosaic of the area would be obtained and a 1:10,000 scale
land use map showing maximum detail would be prepared. Simultaneously, the
agency responsible for land reform would prepare data on holdings, their size,
number of farmers and areas farmed. Water development, road and soil conserv-
ation plans would be prepared and a reorganized farming unit scheme based on
economic holdings would be finalized. A plan for the consolidation of holdings
and the settlement or resettlement of surplus farmers would be prepared with
a clear time-schedule for various actions. All the above aspects and, in
particular, those concerning the ownership of land will acquire a totally new
significance as a result of a policy statement by the new Council of Ministers
which emphasises (i) acquisition by tenant farmers who derive their living
from land of their own farms, (ii) the limiting of future land grants by the
government only to those "who shall make their livelihood by working on the land,"
(iii) the taking over by the government of "holdings in excess of what is con-
sidered to be a reasonable limit of the owner's capacity to develop" and the
distribution of such land "to those who will make their living by working on
the land." The policy statement also refers to the need for special measures
to remedy the excessive fragmentation of land "with a view to increasing the
farmer's productive capacity."
3.35      The principal components of this subproject are (i) conservation
measures, (ii) water development, (iii) roads, (iv) crop development, including
credit for seed and fertilizer, storage, and marketing, (v) surveys and
planning in connection with the reorganization of land holdings, (vi) agri-
cultural trials, (vii) evaluation, (viii) minor rural industries (ix)
nutritional studies and (x) administration. Details pertaining to these
components are provided in Annex 2.
3.36      The estimated cost of this subproject is US$1.1 million.  PRG would
give top priority to this subproject with a view to completing preparation
as soon as possible after the effective date. The subproject would be im-
plemented by the Extension and Plan Implementation Division (EPID) of the
Ministry of Agriculture. EPID would attempt to implement the subproject with-
in about 24 months, so that experiences derived from it would be useful for
future projects. Physical investments such as terracing and afforestation
would account for about a third of the total cost, while surveys and planning,
and land reorganization would constitute the other major items. Investments



- 18 -
proposed under the subproject would be complementary to those under other Bank-
financed projects such as MPP. After the pilot project is completed and,
depending on the experiences derived from it, it is believed that there would
be a significant decrease in the cost of further integrated catchment develop-
ment projects.
e.   Project Preparation
3.37      A project preparation team was set up under the Interministerial
National Rehabilitation Committee to identify and prepare projects for the
medium-term rehabilitation of the drought affected areas. The team prepared
a document entitled "Proposals for Medium-Term Rehabilitation Programmes for
the Drought Stricken Areas of Northern and Central Ethiopia". Most of the
team's proposals have been incorporated in the proposed project.
3.38      It is important that an appropriate agency be created not only to
ensure that projects for the short- and medium-term are implemented efficiently
but also to lay the foundation for longer-term development, particularly
through the medium of integrated catchment projects, and in light of the
experiences to be gained from the pilot project referred to above. In order
to facilitate this the present team will be reorganized into a Project Review
Group (PRG) which would be an integral part of the Office of the Commis-
sioner for Drought Relief and Rehabilitation (OCDRR). PRG will be a multi-
sectoral team which will be able to undertake integrated land and water use
planning. Expertise representing such agencies as noted below will be re-
presented on PRG: Ministry of Land Reform, Soil Conservation Division, and
Extension and Plan Implementation Division (EPID) of the Ministry of Agri-
culture, State Forestry Agency, NWRC, LMB, Institute of Agricultural Research,
Task Force on Rural Roads, Ministry of Commerce and Industry and Ministry of
National Community Development. Most of the agenciee noted above will provide
staff on permanent secondment to OCDRR which will also retain all technical
assistance personnel who are being made available under various auspices for
the drought programs, including those under the proposed project. The
Commissioner or his nominee will chair meetings of PRG. The first task of
OCDRR would be to make an overall assessment of the long-term needs and also
the potential of the drought-stricken areas. Based on this assessment, those
areas and activities which deserve priority for inciusion in a first-phase
project should be identified. PRG would establish a work program for project
preparation including basic data collection and formulation and preparation
of individual project components. The preparation of these components could
be handled separately by different agencies, but would be subject to approval
by PRG.
3.39      The proposed project will provide support for OCDRR. Among the
items to be covered are 36 man-months of consultant services in fields where
the required expertise is not presently available in Ethiopia, office equip-
ment and vehicles, operating costs and some local salaries. The total cost
of this subproject is estimated to be US$240,000.



- 19 -
f.   Surveys and Technical Data Collection
3.40      The central highlands of Ethiopia are subject to intensive land
use pressure which has been accentuated by the present drought. However,
the problem of population pressure is a continuing one over the whole high-
land area and the State Forestry Development Agency estimates that each year
a very substantial area of forest in the central and south west provinces
is cut out for unplanned settlement with consequent soil erosion and depletion
of water and timber resources.
3.41      The agencies at present concerned with settlement and resettlement
are the Ministry of Land Reform which is responsible for accommodation settle-
ment; the Ministry of Agriculture which is responsible for irrigation settle-
ment in the Awash Valley and, to an undefined extent, Provincial Governors
who may allocate government land or be concerned with resettlement within
their Provinces.
3.42      Within the Provinces of Tigre and Wollo accurate figures are not
as yet available on population distribution, size and ownership of land hold-
ings and rental or share cropping arrangement within various systems of
tenancy. This information is urgently required for long-term planning to
assess opportunities for resettlement and to obtain an estimate of the possible
excess population who will have to be found alternative employment or settled
in other areas. Nonetheless, in spite of the absence of basic data it is
obvious that in both Provinces there is a very acute and critical problem of
over-cultivation and over-grazing with consequent very serious effects on
the capacity of land to support the present population.
3.43      The long-term solution requires that:
(i) an efficient system of land use be introduced into
the areas concerned;
(ii)  necessary readjustment of land holdings and tenancy
arrangements be made and resettlement effected to
allow a more equitable distribution of land and
income; and
(iii)  any possible excess population be siphoned off to other
suitable areas or be provided employment in non-
agricultural activities, where feasible.
3.44      The proposed project would include funds for the necessary surveys
and planning within Wollo and Tigre, and for technical data collection in
other areas such as Wollega and Illubabor Provinces where suitable settlement
areas exist. The estimated cost of this component is US$360,000.



- 20 -
g.   Research
3.45      Most of the agricultural research in Ethiopia with the exception
of some animal husbandry research is under the overall direction of the
Institute of Agricultural Research. IAR has prepared a research program to
coincide with the period of the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1974-79). The program
calls for an expenditure of Eth$35 million. There is a long-term training
program designed to phase out expatriate staff, presently numbering 23, in
ten years. The higher training of 60 Ethiopian scientists will be completed
by the end of 1974.
3.46      Seven regional research stations and a number of substations are
run under the IAR umbrella. Some of the substations operate in conjunction
with EPID for the Minimum Package Program. Two of these stations are in the
drought affected areas, one at Makele (Tigre) and the second at Kobo (Wollo).
The latter is being upgraded to a field station with three graduate staff.
There is a proposal in the 5-year program also to upgrade the present sub-
station in Makele to a field station, in order to undertake adaptive research
to solve specific local problems.
3.47      Substations generally duplicate crop, variety and crop husbandry
trials in their respective areas. It is proposed, therefore, to provide
funds in the proposed project to expand one of the two substations to support
much needed peasant farming systems research. This is very important to
establish facts for the long-term catchment development projects on items
such as dryland farming, mulching systems, integration of small stock, peasant
soil conservation methods, fodder and grass.
3.48      Under the research subproject, the research stations which is
chosen for upgrading would be provided with internationally recruited
research staff as well as the regular substation staff. Housing, laboratories,
equipment and vehicles would be funded as well as operating expenses and
equipment to run the station and carry out the more complicated and extensive
farming systems trials as well as the normal crop investigations. The en-
larged research program would cost US$550,000 and include the following:
Peasant Farming Systems
(i) simple goat husbandry with buildings, feed stuffs
from the farm, the use of crop residues, simple
disease control, production and marketing;
(ii)  a similar program with sheep with particular emphasis
on internal worm control, carpet wool production and
breeding systems suitable for the small flock owner;
(iii)  a complementary but smaller program on the handling
of work oxen and dairy cows;



- 21 -
(iv) cropping systems integrating food, cash and fodder
crops including grass, in economic farming systems
and rotations.
Water Development Research
Liaison with the water development program to provide
a monitoring service and observational trials.
Soil Conservation Trials
Although essentially long term in nature, trials
and costings would be initiated of peasant soil
conservation measures and their effects on water
retention, soil fertility and cost of upkeep.
h.   Crafts/Small Industries
3.49      One of the most tragic results of the drought is that thousands
of women have been widowed, and hundreds of children have been orphaned as
a result of the death of both parents. Before the relief effort got under-
way, men in isolated areas left their homes in search of food but, in their
emaciated condition, often died before they got anywhere. Their dependents,
particularly the women, have a responsibility which they are ill-equipped to
bear. They cannot be readily rehabilitated in agriculture even if they were
to return to their areas from the relief camps. IEG is considering various
ways by which these women can be assisted in making a living. There is an
urgent need for a number of modest programs in the rural areas to prevent
migration to the major cities with all the consequent socio-economic problems
that it creates.
3.50      There is a wide range of skills in Tigre and Wollo in the field
of crafts and small industries. These include pottery, carpet weaving,
spinning, weaving, and garment making, dyeing, embroidery, basket weaving
and doll making. Many women have these skills or can be taught relatively
easily. The products are in demand locally and also cater for an expanding
tourist trade. Some possibility exists for exporting a few of these items.
3.51      A women's welfare organization in Tigre operates a garment factory
in which more than a hundred women are employed and perform a wide range of
work ranging from spinning (by hand) to making the final garments and embroid-
ering them. Many agencies which are engaged in the rehabilitation of dis-
abled persons also have programs. The Rehabilitation Agency for the Disabled
(physically handicapped) estimates that a well-equipped garment-making factory
would cost about Eth$50,000. Crude looms for carpet making cost as little
as Eth$150-200; a well-made loom will probably cost about Eth$500. Each
loom can employ 6-8 persons.



- 22 -
3.52      There is at present no single organization which can handle programs
in different parts of the country. The selection of a suitable agency to
prepare specific requests under this subproject would be discussed further
with IEG. OCDRR should appoint or establish an organization to which it would
assign responsibility for identifying promising activities and ensuring that
the use of funds provided for any specific activities are properly supervised.
Assistance would also be required with design, quality control and marketing.
Pending some additional work to be done in Ethiopia - particularly the determi-
nation of specific activities to be supported - the proposed project includes
a modest provision of $180,000 for simple machinery, looms and also for raw
materials.
i.  Health Centers and Facilities
3.53      This subproject would include the construction of two health centers,
one each in Wollo and Tigre, the expansion of an existing hospital in Tigre
and the construction of sixteen health stations (eight in each Province).
Disease and nutritional problems caused by the famine will continue well
beyond the immediate emergency period, and the provision of basic health
services is an essential part of drought rehabilitation and also of any longer-
term program. A provision of US$0.8 million is included in the proposed
Credit for this subproject, but details concerning the items to be financed
would have to be worked out in consultation with IEG.
j.   Other Sub-projects
3.54      Since the project was appraised, IEG has reported that some addition-
al information concerning the effects of the drought has become available.
This would suggest that a shortfall may occur in some itd'ms, e.g. work oxen,
seed, etc. which were previously reported to be adequately funded by other
donors. More precise details need to be ascertained before any specific
allocation can be made for these or any other such items. It is considered
desirable, however, to allow IEG to have some flexibility in the utilization
of funds for purposes other than (a) to (i) above, subject to the approval
of the Association. In the event that the Association were to approve a new
subproject, it would be funded through a reallocation of the amounts presently
proposed for the various subprojects.
IV. FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.01      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated to be US$10.0
million, net of all import duties and taxes, and the allocation by subproject
is shown below. A more detailed breakdown for each of the subprojects is
shown in Annex 3.



- 23 -
(US$'000 equivalent)
Item                                  Local       Foreign    Total
a.   Rural Roads                             120       1,400       1,520
b.   Rural Water Supplies                    250       1,250       1,500
c.   North-East Rangelands                  850          550       1,400
d.   Pilot Settlement Project in Wollo   _650            400       1,050
e.   OCDRR                                   40          200         240
f.   Surveys etc. for Settlement              60         300         360
g.   Research                                100         450         550
h.   Crafts/Cottage Industries               130          50         180
i.   Health Facilities                      400          400         800
Total                           2,600       5,000       7,600
J.   Contingencies
Physical                             200          400         600
Prices                               400        11,800
Total                             600        1,800      2,400
Grand Total                     3,200       6,800      10,000
A physical contingency of 10% is added to all capital costs and price con-
tingencies are added as noted below:
(a) Local Costs
(i) equipment and civil works at 10% in the first year
and 7.5% in each of the second and third years on a
cumulative basis;
(ii) wages and salaries at 5% per annum cumulative;
(b) Foreign Costs
(i)  equipment at 12.5% in the first year, 10% in the
second year and 7.5% in the third year on a cumulative
basis;
(ii) consultant services at 5% per annum cumulative;
(iii) operating costs at 5% per annum cumulative.
It is considered that these contingencies will cover the anticipated increase
in costs during the three year project period.



- 24
4.02      The size of each subproject takes into account assistance which
has already been assured or is under consideration by other donors. In cases
where donors have been requested to consider specific items but have not yet
reacted, provision for such items has been included in the proposed project.
If such assistance were to materialize after the project is approved by the
Executive Directors, the funds thus released would be reallocated either to
other present subprojects or to any new project approved by the Association.
4.03      The foreign exchange cost is estimated to be 68% of the total cost.
Every effort would be made to retain the labor-intensive character of the road
and water-spreading subprojects. The share of the local costs in the rural
road subproject is small since it is expected that wages, which would generally
be a large item, would initially be covered by the food-for-work program which
is being supported by WFP and other donors, and that voluntary labor would
be an important feature of rural road construction when normal conditions
return.
4.04      The credit would be made to IEG on standard terms and would cover
100% of the project cost net of import duties and taxes. It is believed that,
as a result of the steep rise in wages which IEG has had to grant recently in
every segment of the economy including the armed forces, its ability to
support extraordinary expenditures of this kind has been seriously impaired.
In this situation, it is considered unrealistic to obligate IEG to undertake
any more than a small portion of the total expenditure on the project and such
a stipulation may in fact prejudice the prompt implementation of some urgent
programs. In all subprojects, in addition to capital expenditures, provision
has been made for technical assistance and incremental operating expenditures
to the maximum extent possible.
B. Procurement and Disbursement
4.05      Procurement of road construction and water drilling equipment and
other items costing US$30,000 equivalent or more would be by international
competitive bidding. Items costing less than US$30,000 equivalent would be
purchased under IEG's standard procurement procedures which are considered
satisfactory. The recruitment of consultant services would be subject to
the approval of the Association.
4.06      Disbursements from the Credit Account would cover 100% of the cost
of goods and services net of import duties and taxes required for each sub-
project approved by the Association. Disbursements for imported and/or
locally procured equipment and machinery, consultants services and civil
works would be fully documented. For expenditures covering small items for
which the submission of normal documentation would not be practical, dis-
bursements would be made against certificates of expenditures, the documentation
of which would not be submitted for review but would be retained by the finan-
cial controller and be available for inspection by the Association during the
course of a Project supervision mission.



- 25 -
C. Accounts and Auditing
4.07      A financial controller acceptable to the Association would serve
as a full-time official attached to OCDBR. Withdrawals from the Credit
would be made by the financial controller for designated purposes after ap-
proval by the Commissioner for Drought Relief and Rehabilitation or a person
designated by him. Project accounts would be audited annually by qualified
auditors acceptable to the Association, and accounts would be submitted to
IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year.
4.08      For each sub-project OCDRR will submit a detailed work program
listing activities which it is proposed to take up for implementation in the
following six months for the Association's approval. OCDRR would have flexi-
bility in the use of funds for briad categorieEs of items such as rural water
or roads. IDA's approval will be obtained by OCDRR for any changes which
the latter proposes to make in the use of funds within the broad categories.
4.09      Amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account which are not paid by the
Association directly to suppliers of goods and services for the Project will
be held in a Drought Rehabilitation Account (DR Account). In view of the
difficult financial situation facing IEG, and in the interests of efficient
project implementation, the Association would advance up to US$100,000 to
the DR Account, immediately after the effective date. This will enable OCDRR
to incur expenditures in connection with project preparation and review
activities. After the Association has approved the first sub-project sub-
mitted by OCDRR, it will advance a further sum of US$400,000 equivalent for
expenditures related to that sub-project. The DR Account would be reimbursed
from time to time, after the Association has reviewed and approved past
expenditures. This procedure would enable OCDRR to have at its disposal a
sum of up to US$500,000 equivalent to meet day-to-day expenditures connected
with any of the sub-projects which may be approved by the Association from
time to time.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Because of the multi-sectoral nature of the proposed project and
hence the need to use many agencies both for the implementation of the pro-
posed project and also for further preparation, OCDRR will act as the coordi-
nating mechanism, since the required expertise will be represented on it.
OCDRR will be responsible for the preparation and implementation of all
rehabilitation and longer-term projects which are related to the present
drought. In view of the high priority which IEG attaches to drought rehabili-
tation programs, OCDRR has been empowered to obtain staff on permanent second-
ment from any ministry or agency of the government, and many staff have
already been attached to it. OCDRR is headed by a Commissioner for Drought
Relief and Rehabilitation, who is responsible to the Commission for Drought
Relief and Rehabilitation (comprising members of the Cabinet) which determines
overall policies and priorities.



- 26
5.02      OCDRR is responsible for all day-to-day programs and for ensuring
that each activity is backed up by the necessary financial resources or staff.
It is also responsible for dealing with all external agencies which are sup-
porting IEG's drought rehabilitation effort. It acts, therefore, as a focal
point for all activities relating to relief and rehabilitation.
5.03      Although it is expected that OCDRR will eventually have all the
staff required to implement drought related programs both of a short- and long-
term nature, it will in some cases entrust responsibility for individual pro-
grams to some of the existing agencies-both those within ministries and the
semi-governmental corporations. Some of these agencies have already had use-
ful experience in project implementation. For example, the Livestock and Meat
Board, the National Water Resources Commission, the Extension and Plan Imple-
mentation Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Institute for
Agricultural Research are all continuing to implement specific programs and
are well-suited to assuming further responsibility in this regard.
5.04      Within OCDRR, the Project Review Group (PRG) will have principal
responsibility for formulating and reviewing project proposals relating to
the drought, and ensuring that every proposal is reviewed from a multi-sectoral
point of view to maximize its impact on the affected areas. Consultants
recruited to OCDRR under the Project will serve on PRG when this is considered
useful.
5.05      For programs of a longer-term nature, it will be necessary for OCDRR
to establish a project preparation and implementation capacity at the provin-
cial level. IEG has already approved such a proposal for Wollo Province which,
in recent years, has suffered much from a weak administration. The new
arrangement which is to be implemented in stages calls for the establishment
of a radically different provincial administration which is far more responsive
to local needs than at present, and is able both to undertake direct respon-
!lbility for rehabilitation/development activities and to provide direction and
guidance to national agencies who may continue to operate at the provincial
level. As a first step in the decentralization process, a Deputy Governor-
General has been appointed for Wollo Province, who will also serve as Deputy
Commissioner for Relief and Rehabilitation in Wollo. Consideration is
presently being given to the reorganization of the provincial administration
in other parts of Ethiopia.
5.06      With the exception of the rural roads, crafts and health facilities
components, the OCDRR will be able to use existing institutions to implement
the various sub-projects. Discussions will be held with OCDRR at a later
stage on the implications for project implementation of measures to decentralize
the administration.



- 27 -
VI. JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The components in the proposed project range from those which
address the immediate problems created by the drought and others which
deal with longer-standing problems.  In view of the urgency of the situation,
no attempt has been made to prepare a detailed justification for each of the
components. The subprojects which respond to the relatively long-term needs
would probably generate economic benefits on an acceptable scale. These
would include the north-east rangelands, rural roads, the Wollo pilot project,
surveys and technical data collection, and research, the last two items being
essentially a means of reinforcing the preparation of projects which would be
submitted to the Bank in the normal manner. Some aspects of the rural water
component, medical centers and crafts/cottage industry subprojects have major
significance for the survival and rehabilitation of thousands of people who
for many months have lived on charity and have been without hope of ever being
able to get back to their land and leading a life of dignity, and therefore
have an important qualitative significance. The rural roads program is
relevant both for the short- and long-term periods. In Wollo, where the pro-
gram has started virtually from scratch, rural roads would considerably
enhance the effectiveness of the provincial administration and end the isola-
tion which characterizes the lives of many people. It will not only help
relief operations but create the basis for launching developmental activities
which will be beneficial in the longer-run. In this regard rural roads could
have the same beneficial effects as the road elements of ongoing projects
financed by the Bank Group e.g. the Minimum Package Project. Finally, while
dealing with the present drought, the proposed project attempts to look
beyond the present difficulties in order to formulate a long-term strategy
for the drought areas. In this regard, the restructured PRG and the Wollo
Pilot project would prove to be highly beneficial.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
a.   a full-time financial controller acceptable to the
Association, whose duties will include approval of
payments from the DR Account, would be appointed
to the staff of OCDRR;
b.   the proceeds of the credit would be made available to
the implementing agencies as grants;
c.   procurement of equipment for the road construction units
and the water drilling program and other items costing
US$30,000 equivalent or more would be by international
competitive bidding, and that items costing less than
US$30,000 would be purchased under IEG's procurement
procedures;



- 28 -
d.   OCDRR's accounts relating to all subprojects would be
audited by auditors acceptable to the Association
and that audited accounts would be submitted to the
Association not later than six months after the end
of the fiscal year;
e.   the Rural Roads Task Force would be established with
composition, authority and staffing acceptable to the
Association;
f.   the Rural Roads Task Force would be provided with all
necessary resources to advise the borrower on the
establishment of a permanent rural roads organization
and to assist the Wollo and Tigre provincial authorities
in preparing the rural roads component of the Project, and
that provision would be made for the adequate maintenance
of the rural roads constructed under the Project;
g.   lEG would follow procurement and recruitment procedures
as outlined in paragraphs 4.05 and 4.06;
7.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
a.   the establishment of the PRG within the OCDRR;
b.   the appointment of a financial controller to OCDRR,
acceptable to the Association; and
C.   the establishment of the DR Account.
7.03      Subject to the assurances and conditions above the proposed project
would be a suitable basis for a Credit of US$10.0 million to the Imperial
Ethiopian Government.



ANNEX 1
ErHIoPiA                        Page 1 of 7
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITAT ION PROJECT
Contributions to Drought Relief by Country/Organization - as of 31/1/1974
PLEDGED                       RECEIVED
A. AUSTRALIA
1. Milk Biscuits               1920 tins                     1920 tins
2. Medicine                    20 kg. vita-in pills          20 kg. vitamin pills
3. Medical Personnel                --                       6 doctors, 4 nurses
1 pharmacist
4. Cash - for medical
services                51,750 Eth$                    31,050 Eth$
5. Technical Equipment              --                       2 sets of radio
telephone
6.  Grain (wheat)              4,000 tons                         -_
7.  For Transportation              - One special plane to transport biscuits
B. ARDINTINA
1.  Grain (wheat)              1,500 tons                         __
C. BELOIUM
1.  Grain                      500 tons (through WFP)             --
D. BRITAIN
a) Government
1.  Cash                  E100,000                       125,000 - Livestock
and Meat Board
b) OXFAM
1.  Milk Powder           30 tons                        2 tons
2.  Blankets              5000 (in number)               5000 (in number)
3.  Clothes                2 tons                        2 tons
4. Medical Personnel            --                       4 doctors & 8 nurses
5.  Vehicles              4 Landrovers                   4 Landrovers
6.  Cash: food for work         --                       E15,000
7.  Cash: Tigre Relief Comm.   --                        L 3,000
8.  Cash: Christian Relief Comm. --                      f 1,000
9.  Cash: For Oxen & Seed Prog. E25,000                       --



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
-2_
PLEDGED                       RECJEVED
o) Save the Children Fund
1.  Cash                    L15t000                                -
2.  Medical Personnel             -                        4 doctors & 4 nurses
d) Thomas De La Rue & Cm.
1, Cash                     £ 1,000                       £ 1,000
Bo  CANAJD.
1. Cash (Red Cross)         CN$ 5Q°,000                            _
2.  Grain (wheat)                4,000 tons
F.   CHINA
1.  Grain (Red Cross)           10,000 tons                10,000 tons
Go  DIENMARK
1.  Cash                    DK 200,000                             -
H.  FINLAND
1.  Medicine,penecillin pills  6oo-ooo
(Red Cross)60,0
2*  Grain (wheat)            10,000 tons                          -
I.   FRANCE
1.  Grain (wheat)             5,000 tons
2.  Services of 3 helicopters                              10 hours of service
3. A medical team
J.   GERMANY (Weest
a) Govt.
1.  Grain(through WFP)      10,000 tons/E$31Q761900          8000  tons
2.  For purchase of Faffa   DM 20,0Oqo                    .156,250 3th.3
3.  Seed through FAD        IN 2,700,000                 2,376,000 Eth.$
4. For air transport         DM 11700,000                 1,445,000 Eth.$
5. For Purchase of Seeds   DM 400,000                       310,077.51 Zth.3
6.  For Local Transport      DM 250,000                     215,517.24 Bth.$
7. For purchase of trucks  DM 500,000                     1i7 Mercedes Benz trucks
8a For purchase of 7000
pairs of Oxen           1,171,875 Eth.3                1,171,875 Eth.S



ANNE 1
Page  o? 7
PLEDGED                           RECEIVED
b) Stern Magazine
1.  Cash                    DM 1000,000                            -
2.  Children's Food             87,553 kg                     87,553 kg
3.  Milk Powder                 75,221 kg                     75,221 kg
4.  Medicine                     4,0 56 kg                     4,056 kg
5. Bedding & Clothing          43,636 kg +                    43,636 kg +
360 Packs                     360 Packs
6.  Medical Equipment              253 units                     253
7.  Beds and Tents               6,700 kg +                    6,700 kg  +
200 beds                      200 beds
8.  Unimog Cars              2 with trailers               2 with trailers
9. Volkswagen               2 buses                        2 buses
10.  Medical Personnel                                      10 dootors, 2 nurses
K.   GREECE(Staff of the Chase
Manhattan Bank)
1. Basio food, milk         25 packages                            -
L.   IRISH REPUBLIC
1. Milk Powder               2 tons                                -
2.  Medical Personnel              _                       1 doctor & 4 nurses
( from Concern)
M.  JAPAN
a) Through MOENCO
1.  Canned Milk             1,200 tins                             -
b) Fuji Spinning Co.
1.  Cash                          -                       Eth.$ 82,179
N.  KENYA
1.  Maize                     10,000 tons                 7,500 tons approx.
2.  Milk Powder                  10 tons                         10 tons
0.  NETHERLANDS
1.  Cash (Red Cross)        Eth.3 200,000                   Rth.$ 200,000
2.    " Through UNICEF        "   150,000                     "   150,000
3. Baby Food                  "    11,000                          -



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
-4 
Netherlands GA.L                PLEDGED                         RECEIVED
4,  Netherlands Catholic
Mission     Eth.3 120,000                 Eth,$ 120,000
5. Food Items                    5 tons
6.  Medical Personnel        4 doctors with kite           4 doctors
7.  Medical Personnel
from Terres des Hommes   2 doctors, 2 nurses           2 dloctors, 2 nurses
8. Vehicles                  2 LandroverEs                 2 Landrovers
9. Cash: to Relief and
Rehabilitation    Ifil. 750,000
Programme -
1974 of UNICEF
P.   NEWZEALAND
1. Protein Enriched Biscuits
through UNICEF                30 tons                          -
Q.   NORWAY
1. Cash: Norway Save the
Children Fund      Eth,$ 103,500
2.  Cash: Through UNM0       Eth.$ 103,500                         _
R.   Slf:E1N
1.  Grain                      3000 tons
2. For purchase of seeds   Eth,$ 400,00O                   BthO3 400,000
3.   "     " Faffa & Soya  Lth.$ 480,000                   NthjO 480,000
4.  To Lutheran World
Federation                 n   240j0Q
S.   Sh'ITZERLAND
1.  Milk Powder                 20 tons                      4,2 tons approx.
2.  Halazone                 600,000 tablets
3. Blankets                  2940 (in number)
4.  }heat flour (Red Cross)   75 tons                            75 tons
5.  Cash                     Eth.$ 10,000
6.  Baby food                   100 tons



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
-5-
PLEDGED                        RECEIVED
T.   UGANDA
1.  Corred Beef                 1X200 tines                   1,200 tins
2.  Biscuits                      54 packs                       54 packs
U.  USAID (America)
1.  Grain                       8,000 tons                    49040 tons
2. Ambassador Emergency
Fund      US$ 25,000                    US$ 59000 (given to
Christian Relief Fund)
3, Local purchase of
galvanized sheeting
for storage             US$ 75,000
4. Public Health
Specialist                     1                              1
V.  YUGOSLAVIA
1. Baby Food                   1 ton                            1,1 ton
(from International Fund
'Hungry Childt)
W.   ZAIRE
1.  Cash:                     Eth43 414,O00
(for various programmes)
X.   EEC
1.  Grain (wheat)             25,000 tons                        5,000  tons
2.  Milk Powder                29500 tons
3.  Butter Oil                 1,300
4.  Cash                   E$1.6 million
Y.  UNICEF
1.  Milk & Rehabilitation   USC 725,900
food
2.  Drugs and Medical        US,   5,800
supplies                          The   total   will   be
3. Kitchen & Feeding Equip. US^ 10,000          utilized  by  the  end
4.  Mainten&nce & Travel      US$ 56,700
Costs for Field Workers                               of  1974
5.  Staff and Equipment       US$  9,150
su:port for the Co-ordi-
nator's office                                                  contd...



ANNEX 1
Page 60 of 7
6-
UNICEF contd....                        PLEDGCE                       RECEIVED
6.  Supporlt for nutrition     USQ 153,320
surveillance team                               The total will be
7.  Rural Water Supply         US3 1,270,350        utilized by the end
8.  Miscellaneous and
extension of on-                                        of 1974
going projects             US3 768,380
Z.  WP
1.  Grain                      23,000  tons                   10O000 tons
W/Germang)  W5000  "  (KenWya
Fund       3,0  "  (Local
2.  Internal Transport         US$ 200,000
3.  Vehicle                      1 Jeep                     1 Jeep (Tigre)
4.  Storage                    6 x 500 mt silos             6 x 500 mt silos
AA.    Lutheran World Federation
1.  Cash(for various prog.)   Eth.3 845,595                  Eth.0 183,195
2*  Milk Powder                   40 tons                        10 tons
3. Blankets                      12.8 tons (app)                 3.1 tons (app)
4   Landrover pickups                2                                2
5. Baby Food                     2446 kg                         2446 kg
6.  Medicine &                   7272 kg                         7272 kg
medical Equipment
7. Vehicles                    4 Unimogs
8.  Grain                      1,200 tons
BB..  S.I.M. (Society of Interna-
tional Missionaries)
1.  Water Well Drilling M4achine    3 (in number)
2.  Trausportation Service           2 helicopters for
3 months
3. Moving Hlospital                  3 with 200 beds
CC.    Ethiopian Catholic Secretariat
1.  Blankets                   30,000  in number              Eth.$ 76,500
2.  Medicine                    6,000 kg                      Eth.; 201170
3.  Milk Powder               100,000 kg
4.  Protein Enriched Food        15,000 kg
5.  Clothes (used)              10,000 kg                     Eth.$ 10,000
Contd..



ANiEI 1
Page7 o-f 7
-7-
CC (Contd)                            PLEDGED                        RECEIVED
6.  Baby Food                  709000 kg
7. Vehicle                     1 V.W. minibus
8. For food, medicine
transport and                                         Eth.s 709,035.93
water supply
9.  Medical Personnel                                            1 dootor
DD.    Bread for the World
1.  Cash                      Eth.3 105,000               Eth,$ 105,000
(through Ethiopian
Orthodox Church)
(Prepared by the Office of the Resident Representative, UNDP, Ethiopia)






ANNEX 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Wollo Pilot Project
Conservation Measures
(i)  terracing and afforestation strips on steep denuded
hillsides;
(ii)  check dams in the upper reaches of the main natural
flash flood channels;
(iii)  gully erosion control by stop-washes and water-
spreading on to communal pastures;
(iv)  technical advice to farmers for soil conservation
of arable lands.
Water Development
(i)  hand dug wells with simple water lifting equipment
associated with simple irrigation works;
(ii)  hand constructed small dams and weirs associated
with simple irrigation works;
(iii)  technical advice to farmers for the development
of natural springs;
(iv)   the early construction of demonstration water
development units, such as wash stops.
Roads
Survey, layout and hand construction of roads to facilitate
administration and crop extraction.
Crop Development
Mi)  on-farm demonstration and seed multiplication plots;
(ii)  credit for fertilizer and improved seed;
(iii)  medium-term credit for communal crop storage facilities;
(iv)  technical assistance for collection and marketing
of specialized cash crops and for crop diversification.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Surveys and Planning
(i) for a phased program of new catchment developments;
(ii) surveys of the areas being developed.
Agricultural Trials
Field trials witbin a coordinated research program
for the development of cash and fodder crops.
Evaluation Program
(i) on-going surface and groundwater studies to evaluate
changes in runoff, river flows and the water table.
(ii) monitoring the cash and fodder crop development program.
Minor Rural Industries
Mi) extension and training;
(ii)  credit for capital itens such as carpet looms, buildings;
(iii) research and development.
Administration
(i) staff, housing, vehicles and equipment;
(ii) technical assistance;
(iii) training and bursaries.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
ErHIOPIA
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATIGN PROJECT
Details of Project Costs
Item                                                           Amount (US$'000)
a.  Raral Roads
2 road construction units and spares                                1,200
Consultant services                                                   120
Operating costs                                                       200
Subtotal                                                       1,520
b. Rural Water Supplies
2 drill rigs and spares                                               380
Borehole equipment (casings etc.)                                     400
Vehicles, mobile workshop equipment and spares                        140
Consultant services                                                   340
Operating costs                                                       240
Subtotal                                                       1,500
c. North-East Rangelands
Vehicles, equipment, tools and spares                                 510
Consultant services                                                    80
Operating costs (including food-for-work cost)                        750
Buildings                                                              60
Subtotal                                                       1 ,400
d. Pilot Project in Wollo
Vehicles, equipment and spares                                        250
Consultant services                                                   500
Operating costs                                                       250
Civil works                                                            50
Subtotal                                                       1,050
e. Project Preparation (OCDRR)
Vehiiles, office equipment and spares                                  60
Consultant services                                                   100
Operating costs                                                        80
Subtotal                                                         240



ANNEX 3
Page 2 oI 2
Item                                                            mount (US$'000)
f. Surveys etc. for Settlement
Equipment, vehicles and aparea                                         50
Consultant services                                                   140
Operating costs                                                       170
Subtotal                                                         360
g. Research
Vehicles, tractors, irrigation and
laboratory equipment                                                150
Consultant services                                                   270
Operating costs                                                        60
Civil works                                                            70
Subtotal                                                         550
h. Crafts/Cottage Industries
xquipment                                                             150
Operating costs                                                        30
Subtotal                                                         180
i. Medical Centers
Equipment, supplies                                                   400
Civil works                                                           400
Subtotal                                                         800
Total                                                       7,
J. Contingencies
Physical                                                              600
Prices                                                              1,800
Subtotal                                                       2,400
GRAND TOTAL                                                10 000



ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION PROJECT ('000 US$)
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Pilot
IDA                                              Settlement   Project Review                      Crafts/        Health
Fiscal Year               Water       N.E. Range-    Project        Group & Surveys                    Cottage       Medical    Contin-    Total Dis-
and Quarter    Roads   Supplies          lands         Wollo        for  Settlement    Research    Industries    Centers    gencies    bursement             Balance
1974/75
September 301/    20         50             50            50                70             20              -             -          100           360          9,640
December 31         50      100            100           200                70             20             20             -          100           660          8,980
March 31           100      100            100           200               100            100             30            100         200         1,030          7,950
June 30           200       200            100           200              100             100             30            200         200         1,330          6,620
1975/76
September 30      200       200           200            100               50              70             25            200         200         1,245          5,375
December 31        200      200            200           100                50             50             25            200         200          1,225         4,150
March 31          200       200            200           100                50             50             25            100         200          1,125         3,025
June 30           200       200            200           100                20             50             25                        200            995         2,030
1976/77
September 30      100       100            100            -                30              30              -             -          250            610         1,420
December 312/    100         50             50            -                 30             30               -            -          250            510           910
March 31           100       50             50            -                 30             15               -            -          250            495           415
June 303/          50        50             50            -                 -              15             _              -          250            415           -
T O      T     A L : 1.520    1.500      1.400         1.050               600            55l                                     2.400         10,0-0
1/ Expected date of effectiveness.
2/ Expected date of Project completion.
3/ Closing date is September 30, 1977.
June 7, 1974






ANNE7 5
Table  1
ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION PROJKT
Eastijmated Rural and Urban Populationa by Province, 1970
Province         Rurall/          Urban          Total          Urban
--------nd--r-- undT-----------               T     otal
Tigre              1,625            123.7         1,748.7        6.7
Wollo              2j,250.7         104.9         2,355.6         9.3
All Others        18,42.          2,641          20,211.1        10.2
Total             222292.7 284,315.4                              9.4
1/ Defined to include persons living in towns of more than 2,000 population.
Source: Central Statistical Office, Statistical Abstract, 1970. The
data are based on the National Sample Survey.
June 6, 1974



ANNEi 5
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION PR}JCT
Road Network ly Province, 1967/68
All-Weather Road# Under Maintenanoo Dry Weather ROads and Trails
i;aved grave1~rae
Province      Surface primary So        Feeder  }         o       Feeder    Total
Tigre            -       580    40    -            -       170     14z0          930
Wollo            256     464    -      _           157     -       675         1,552
All Others     1,565   2 8    95   251    5 ,836   359    6.162               20,918
Total         1L821      362   135   251                                      23,0
Sources Imperial Highway Authority
June 6, 1974



ANNEX 5
Table 3
ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT AREAS REHABITLITATION PROJECT
Estimated Land Use by Regions and Provinces, 1972
Thousand hectares ('")
Northern and Central Highlands    Eastern &Southern    Southwestern
Food crops,              TIGRE        WrLL         OTHERS        Higihlands      Highlands        TCTAT
peasant                   0
sub -sector             440          580           2,980         1,220            820            6,040
Other crops and
'0commercial"
farming                  10           30             310            220           410              980
Total cropped
area                    450          610          3,290          1,440         1,230             7,020
(7)         (8)            (10)           (3)           (6)              (6)
Forest, pasture,
follow and
wasteland             6,140        7,330          30,570         50,920        20,040          115,000
Total Land              6,590        7,940          33,860         52,360        21,270          122,020
lIn small farmer "peasanti cultivatiot, as implied by First Round of Rural Sample Survey, CSO
and other data.  An estimated growth factor  f 2 has been used for the years since the Survey.
Sources: Planning and Programming Department, Ministry of Agriculture, 1972, unofficial; based
primarily on Rural Sample Survey, First Round, CSO. Total area data from Mapping and Geography
Institute. Crop area sliould be considered only as a rough order of magnitude estimate, generally
consistent with known or assumed values on population, farm size, overall consumption levels
and yields.  It must be stressed that no physical or photographic survey o$ crop area has evgr
been undertaken.  Commercial farming and other crops are very crudely estimated, based on tractor
data and yield assunptions on coffee.  All data must be considered tentative and unofficial.
June 6, 1974



ANNEX ',
Table I
ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Land Tenure
Tigre                 Wallo
(Communal            (Individual
Tenure)                Tenure)
No.        _          No.        %_
Distribution of Total Cultivated
Area Between Owners and Tenants
Area
Owned                                      212,947      67        239,654      61
Rented                                      23,887       7         56,438      14
Partly Owned and Partly Rented              81,008      26         96,267      25
Total                                                  100                    100
Tenant Population as Percentage
of Total Rural Population
Rural Population                           1,410,800             2,061,800
Tenant Population
1^olly Renters                              98,756       7        341,586      16.5
Past Owners and Past Renters               257,218      18        330,396      16
Total                                      355,974      25        671,982      32.5
Distribution of Tenancies According
to Mode of Payment of Rent
In Crop                                                 90                     84
In Cash                                                  4.5                    9
In Crop and Cash                                         5                      6
In Services                                              0.5                    3
Total                                                  100                    102
Distribution of Holdings According
to Number of Parcels
1                                                       16                     19
2                                                       25                     24
3                                                       20                     23
4                                                       16                     14
5                                                        7                      9
6 and above                                             16                     11
Total                                                  100                    100
June 6, 1974



ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Health Facilities by Province. 1970
Province and                                               Beds per       Health        Health        Training
Capital City          Area       Hospitals       Beds       thousand      Centers      Stations       Centers
('000 sq mls)  --------------------------------Number-----------------------------------
Tigre                  25.7           51/         322         .184            7            22            1
Mekele                             (5)-        (322)
Wollo                  31.5           4           216         .092            8            13            1-
Dese                               (4)         (216)
All Others             432           79         8,911         .441           66           507
Total:                 489.2         88         9.449         .389           81           542
1/ Numbers in parenthesis are included in the data for the province.
2/ Dresser School
Source:  Medical Services Division, Ministry of Public Health
June 6, 1974






~BRLD SCAB
3 0 '             7        - ' ;~              4 0 '                                           0 fA d   :   f  ;\   ffi   t4   E T   H I O P I A   .  M A Y   19 7 4
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION PROJECT
RAINFALL, LIVEsToCK, wATER RESOURCES,
I                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FORESTRY AND WILDLIFE
a I r....,.\..at, e.   th. a  r ..d   M.n.le.....           cc  nn .. potlV
:: 'l :35|: } | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R e   d                                        A'4        '.t             n>>E_  Iwothearyd  440  noanOnnetnt na on Poyeadnmn IneenaoaFpn4ce,naqP4n
.Al               ,P--dan04 1tOWk
>  ga   >         t      >            >                                                  Lr -Dry weyther rnads                   Fryzen meyt mm syfel lTes to Drace's. ng-'c4, toad  p4nt
a   ::                      T t                  /                  ; Oa.n    M4,e                   Sea                  -      Y --PnvctabndaniP Ttafcennflettackdanelope po
> <   :  &;    t$*   >></ Asmar4a~   I                          0                                            4    ®:    ._ ntendno bonnpna             estnnatiqOat  ofdeopmennl
;;f    \xL   5   t   .  (0  tgenene  u   8      <                                  4 t       @   Awosh              .CbYteforets~~~~~~~~~~~~Oneen ttgnea an opan an Oac
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nmta                                                                                                                  IIhI Paen a:|;0    2 tX an act a nn Ocnom 1neoter 
= 0                                                                      rat nonot .J _ --l -daa0A-
Q S      U DA N                                                                                                           ®ocanr          h       A~AAB Sate datenn
I'                           AdqMetat  .                                                                                          I   -1
2  % X X     0    g     P                         OWE; OL N    \V ba r                 | -8=  \\  f.  .-  _                                ,          /~Wi-l-,  0~Ir--- --r
<P7                                                                       nSo Stee- '--'
S    :U    D   A                                                                                                                EU g   $,M- :rrs^t 1 
9  t         -               DA    t-   {;  gi ; At L t~~~~~-                    p" A                   ;S 8
00  0,~~~~~~~~~R f  i ~
.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  f                                                                                           O\         Statncneaenaca,antoo;o,,a fi0    g =*   t:.'      \\   ;
JWSO   <     c  0 :  A    5  a=:    , SS   t-W/=      fXni .0s, }1    ,             Onnak, Decent
Macna  t'ao '~~'S I~-->"   A,otn   ~ jaG   te
C                                                                                        0      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<~~~N1
nn~~~~~~~.,,  N ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     2
N~~~~~~~
ntj                          /4r'VAI                                          Moe,~~~~~~~~~Cqb-
S atLoanM.t,~.acdanO,A0a                       ~       a      Dphon         Cuf    ~               dor
at                                                                                                                            I Uteaatt On, Jn A.
d,/
Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i~
-h ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ n,ttnnI                     " 
~~~~u'j~~~~~~~~~~~~~h. ~~~~                                            ~ 
pOO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,~~,      0    0aA$~~t
UGANDA               (S~ca                                                                             n                                  4     "      '       $awcc
~~~~ ~~K   ~,E                            y    ,                                           .a n na                  naaAacrne+






IBRD 11089
EThIOPIA                   ~~~~~~MAYl1974
. O XAsMERA                        AO KDtEY(H                         f,N;                                            - ;ETHIOPIAMAl7
DROUGHT  AREAS  REHABILITATION  PROJECT
*.   .            )  *ASM- RA                                                                              EXiSTING AND PROPOSED ROADS
.  A  *Aw   ,.*t **  D ,,  ,.*.*-*;                        :              t                 ~~~~~~TIGRE AND WELO  PROVINCES
-         f   G     *     \EXISTING ALL WEATHER ROADS
EXISTING DRY WEATHER ROADS
PROPOSED NEW RURAL ROADS DR
% N 1 A %eILAS< \                                                                                                                       IMPROVED TRACKS
* -, -   |     <;POSSIBLE FUTURE RURAL ROADS
fRIVERS
Joi9 MEKS T I G  R                .ASE0                    \                    EB**e. PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
*O                                - L- \    4   ¢w  \  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                5
$  <   \ r .;                                                           ; 4   O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS     f
o  Sb   (   \   J                     \               **                  ~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASEB     (APPflOXIMATE SCALE)
B E G  E M D I R          *                                                                        **                                -Jea 
*SbEKOTA  . -  )l  XN i:  4 GM;E O¢AD j
X              * *   LALIBELA   _v)%EB~~~~~~~EUL MOUNTAIN                                                                                                     ",wm  by eb ,    dn
4  ,     * * >  * *   j    i   /                                                       /      tA            ETHIOPIA~~*\    0  0  10
AK OTJNA   M               EAESL                                                                                       ,v   T/    A .A --.. -,...
VVEGELTENA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 *                                   SE                             IOMTR
KU ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BAPROIMTESMAE
*                   ALAMATA       K                                                                                                    .......
TASIH ENWA                    MOUNTAIN                                                                                   aF Of A   12o
TNAI DESE      EMBOLCH                               H a RAR         E                             ON                                OMLI
A EA OJF MA
ETHIOPIA
07
GOJA  M           ~~~~MEKANESELAMR
WEREILU~     ALSIKO        RTUIMO                      HARARG
.00'             TI~~~~~~NISHUJ ROSI1
:  S H E W A           rADDOIsSE,AB                                                                          \






IBRD 11090
4.                           I 4  "le                                                                                                                              MAY 1974
3d°          490           440           490 &x  
Is'          0 g  \ b  \    2  °,  3000
SUDAN1-
120 J               UREA 00 JOAP               01Pd"                                                                      -- _MAYC HEW                     F     / G        R      E
A0ddis Abobs      ~       SOMAL  A
k E TA               I                                                                                                                            -A ,/
I;4 SJ <, ~zv/ \ \ / C<ALAMATA
KE    AA                       1 _I OUNDARIES -
ETHIOPIA \/
DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION I|
PROJECT
PROVISIONAL  LAND  CLASSIFICATION  OF                               ------
THE DROUGHT AFFECTED AREAS OF                                                    'K' v"'
WELO  AND  TIGRE  PROVINCES
.       HIGHLANOS ABOVE 2100 M.
HILLY LOWLANDS BETWEEN 2100 AND 1400 M.
Isoeast ol es2arpmeEtl)                                                                                   / E        i      r          \
HILLY LOWLANDS BETWEEN 2100 AND 1400 M.
\f     Iet oi qnarmemM) 
VALLEY BOWTOMS BETWEEN 2100 AND 1400 M.
DISASTER AREA MOSTLY BELOW 1400 M.                                                                                      W -..
< /    /                         ';          Mei ,Io
I~~~~~~~~~~~~Mk 
__________4<                                        /                                      ;>           C      \      \     HAYK
MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                 HA
OTHER ROADS AND TRACKS                          I/                                                           Tena\                                     BAn
---   PROVINCIAL BOUNOARIES                                  /
_ RIVERS                                                                                                                      D 
-1pNv ,/d-) slrt    -, acpal,,- by th,                  t                                                                                       W     A
L     k     ., "rS  ial  e ffd ,.I"lrtsZ                                                        






IBRD 11091
4Q0                                     410                    itY4
400  41° ^<4
)  ~~~~~~~iiiAFRICA
x : Nw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    ......... 
gMAYCHEW                                                         ETHIOPIA
|              ~~~~DROUGHT AREAS REHABILITATION
2                        ~~~~~~~PROJECT
{               ~~~~~NORTH -EAST RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT
)                       ~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA
\           J                       -         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING ALL WEATHER ROADS
\           J                        ~ ~~~~~~~--' PROPOSED HIGHER GRADE TRACK
\        \                          ~~~~~~~~~----  PROPOSED LOWER GRADE TRACK
f                            : ~~~~~~~~~PROJECT BOUNDARY
X   j                                -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
12°                                                    ___ ^,_vo<  o   -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY 120
cWE LD IYA                                              tP$
<   <                               ~~~~~~~~~TENDAHO  -
k  1                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20  40  60
\   8                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
)   I                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The boundaries shown on this map do not
O (   |                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~imply endorsement or acceptSance by the
| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World B3ank and its affdhiates
4Q0                                    410°



