7 4D
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 485 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 485 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1974, between EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth he'rein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "DR Account" means the Drought Rehabilitation Account referred
to  . Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)   "OCDRR" means the Borrower's Office of the Chief Commissioner
for Drought Relief and Rehabilitation;
(c) "PRG " means the Project Review Group within the OCDRR comprised
of experts representing all disciplines necessary to insure the carrying out of the
Project, the function of which shall be to review and make recommendations upon
proposals for Sub-projects;
(d)   "Project Area" means the area described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and
(e)   "Sub-project" means any project approved by the Association in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project or any Sub-project.
(b)   The Borrower shall open a Drought Rehabilitation Account (the "DR
Account") the National Bank of Ethiopia. All amounts withdrawn from the Credit
Account which are not paid by the Association directly to suppliers of goods and
services for the Project shall be deposited in the DR Account. Amounts deposited
in the DR Account shall be withdrawn solely for meeting the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project, including any Sub-project.
(c)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section:
(i) at any time after the Effective Date, the Borrower may withdraw up to $100,000
equivalent from the Credit Account for expenditures to be made from time to
time for purposes of Category 5 of Schedule I to this Agreement; (ii) at any time
after the Association has approved the first Sub-project pursuant to Section 3.04
of this Agreement, the Borrower may withdraw an additional amount not exceeding
$400,000 equivalent from the Credit Account for expenditures to be made from
time to time for the Project; and (iii) thereafter, withdrawals from the Credit
Account shall be made in accordance with the Association's normal procedures
so a, to replenish, from time to time, the amounts in the DR Account allocable
to the Credit to a level not exceeding $500,000 equivalent.
(d)   All amounts so deposited in the DR Account shall be charged to the
Credit Account as of the date of withdrawal from the Credit Account, and all
payments from the DR Account shall be in all respects subject to the provisions
of the Development Credit Agreement, including without limitation, the provisions
in Schedule 1 of this Agreement relating to the respective amounts allocated to
each Sub-project and the provisions in Schedule 3 of this Agreement relating to
the procurement procedures to be followed in respect of the purchase of goods
and services to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿5
(e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing and except as provided in paragraph
(f) of this Section, no further withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account
when the total amount theretofore withdrawn from tlieCredit Account pursuant
to paragraphs (a) and (c) of this Section, together with the amount of any special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions, shall have reached in the aggregate the equivalent of nine
million five hundred thousand dollars ($9,500,000).
(f) The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
pursuant to the privisions of paragraph (a) of this Section the unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit in excess of $9,500,000 if, and only to the extent, that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all payments made out of the DR Account were
for expenditures that would have been eligible for withdrawal from the Credit
Account.
(g)   If the Association shall have determined that a payment shall have
been made out of the DR Account for expenditures not eligible for reimbursement
from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall, upon notice from the Association,
promptly deposit in the DR Account an amount equal to the amount of such
payment, the amount so deposited to be convertible into a currency freely usable
for purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1984, and ending June 1, 2025, each installment to and including


﻿6
the installment payable on June 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain the OCDRR and shall provide
it with the necessary authority, resources (including without limitation appropriate
office accommodation) and manpower to carry out the Project including such
consultants' services as may be required in the opinion of the Borrower and the
Association to enable the prompt and timely preparation or assistance in the
preparation of Sub-projects by it. The Borrower shall cause the OCDRR to maintain
the PRG within the OCDRR. The tasks of the PRG shall inter alia include the
assessment of the long term needs and potentials of the Project Area, the priority
of respective Sub-projects therein, assistance in the preparation of Sub-projects and
in the provision of financial estimates relating thereto and in monitoring and
reviewing the progress of their implementation through the establishment of
appropriate reporting procedures.
(b)   OCDRR's staff shall include an experienced and qualified financial
controller acceptable to the Association whose responsibilities shall inter alia include
the approval of payments from the DR Account to meet expenditures of the Project
and all Sub-projects.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall recruit or second or cause to be recruited
or seconded suitably qualified persons to assist in the diligent and efficient
execution of Sub-projects as may be required.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause OCDRR to (i) prepare for submission to the Association as
soon as possible after the Effective Date an integrated pilot settlement project


﻿7
covering elements to be agreed with the Association to be located in an area
acceptable to the Association in its Wollo Province, such project to serve as a
basis for future long term development plans for drought affected areas and (ii)
promptly submit to the Association in a form acceptable to the Association
Sub-projects approved by PRG. No Sub-project, other than Part A of the Project
which is deemed approved as of the Effective Date, shall be financed from the
proceeds of the Credit including without limitation amounts on deposit in the
DR Account unless and until it shall have been approved in writing by the
Association; provided that, with the prior consent of the Association, vehicles for
planned Sub-projects may be purchased with funds from the DR Account in advance
of approval of such Sub-projects.
(b)   The Borrower shall transfer the proceeds of the Credit for expenditure
on Sub-projects by way of grant to its various agencies and instrumentalities charged
with the execution of Sub-projects.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall promptly after the Effective Date cause
to be established a Rural Roads Task Force, the composition, authority and staffing
of which shall be acceptable to the Association, such Task Force to be provided
with all necessary resources to advise the Borrower on the establishment of a
permanent rural roads organization and to assist the Wollo and Tigre provincial
authorities in preparing the rural roads component of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided all funds and other
resources necessary for the prompt and adequate maintenance of the rural roads
constructed under the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
and work schedules for the Sub-projects, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included .n
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the DR Account.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause OCDRR to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of each Sub-project and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   PRG has been constituted within the OCDRR;
(b)   The OCDRR shall have appointed a financial controller acceptable to
the Association; and


﻿9
(c)  The DR Account shall have been established.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the OCDRR
has been validly constituted and established and has the necessary authority to
perform the tasks to be performed by it under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The date September 30, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.0 1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
MINFIN
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ KifleWodajo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
0
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿*                                   11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Rural Roads
Equipment, Vehicles,               1,200,000
Materials and Supplies,
and Spares
Consultant Services                 120,000
Operating Expenditures              200,000
Subtotal           1,520,000        100% of total
expenditures
(2)  Rural Water Supplies
Equipment, Vehicles,                920,000
Materials and Supplies,
and Spares
Consultant Services                 340,000
Operating Expenditures              240,000
Subtotal           1,500,000        100% of total
expenditures
(3)  Northeast Rangelands
Equipment, Vehicles,                510,000
Materials and Supplies,
and Spares
Consultant Services                  80,000
Operating Expenditures              750,000
Civil Works                          60,000
Subtotal           1,400,000        100% of total
expenditures


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Pilot Settlement Project
in Wollo
Equipment, Vehicles,                 250,000
Materials and Supplies,
and Spares
Consultant Services                  500,000
Operating Expenditures               250,000
Civil Works                           50,000
Subtotal           1,050,000          100% of total
expenditures
(5)  Project Preparation
and Review (OCDRR)
Equipment, Vehicles,                  60,000
Materials and Supplies,
and Spares
Consultant Services                  100,000
Operating Expenditures                80,000
Subtotal             240,000          100% of total
expenditures
(6)  Surveys etc. for Settlement
Equipment, Vehicles,                  50,000
Materials and Supplies,
and Spares
Consultant Services                  140,000
Operating Expenditures               170,000
Subtotal             360,000          100% of total
expenditures


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7)  Research
Equipment, Vehicles,                 150,000
Materials and Supplies,
and Spares
Consultant Services                  270,000
Operating Expenditures                60,000
Civil Works                           70,000
Subtotal             550,000          100% of total
expenditures
(8) Crafts/Small Industries
Equipment, Vehicles,                 150,000
Materials and Supplies,
and Spares
Operating Expenditures                30,000
Subtotal             180,000        100% of total
(9)  Medical Centers                                     expenditures
Equipment, Vehicles,                 400,000
Materials and Supplies,
and Spares
Civil Works                          400,000
Subtotal             800,000        100% of total
expenditures


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(10) Unallocated (for any of           2,400,000
the items (1)-(9) above
or items required for
Sub-projects under
Part J of the Project)
TOTAL             10,000,000
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any such taxes are included in the cost of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding   the allocation of an   amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting


﻿15
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a drought rehabilitation program in Wollo and Tigre Provinces
consisting of the following parts:
A.    Project Preparation
(1)   Establishment of a multi-disciplinary group for coordinating the
preparation of projects for the rehabilitation and longer-term
development of the drought areas and for monitoring project
implementation.
B.    Rural Roads
Construction and maintenance of about 400-500 km of rural roads.
C.    Rural Water Development
(1)   Inventory of existing water resources and assessment of future
requirements.
(2)   Assistance for the drilling program presently being undertaken by the
Borrower's National Water Resources Commission.
(3)   Planning of rural water development projects.
D.    Northeast Rangelands
(1)   Construction and maintenance of about 500 km of motorable tracks.
(2)   Development of approximately 1000 ha of low cost flood irrigation.
(3)   Development of potable water supplies for five villages.
E.    Integrated Pilot Settlement Project
Preparation and implementation of one or two integrated pilot settlement
projects, in the Wollo Province covering approximately 25,000-30,000 ha and
including  afforestation,  soil  conservation,  minor  irrigation,  land


﻿17
reorganization, extension, credit, marketing, research, nutrition, and some
employment-oriented non-agricultural activities.
F.    Surveys and Technical Data Collection
(1)   Aerial photography and mapping (1:10,000 scale) of Wollo and Tigre
Provinces.
(2)   Technical data collection in connection with resettlement programs in
the said Provinces and possible future settlement program in Illubabor
and Wollega Provinces.
G.    Research
Upgrading a substation of the Institute of Agricultural Research in Wollo
or Tigre into a field station to undertake peasant farming systems research.
H.    Crafts/Small Industries
(1)   Assistance to skilled artisans who have been displaced by the drought
to rehabilitate themselves.
(2)   Provision  of  training  in  crafts and   creation  of employment
opportunities for women who have been widowed during the drought
and others who cannot be readily employed in agriculture.
Health Centers and Facilities
(1)   Construction of two health centers, one each in the Wollo and Tigre
Provinces, expansion of an existing hospital in Tigre, and the
construction of eight health stations each in the Wollo and Tigre
Provinces.
(2)   Equipment for the facilities, mentioned in I(1).
J.    Other Drought Rehabilitation Sub-projects, subject to the approval of the
Association
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    All contracts for road construction and water drilling equipment and all
contracts for items costing $30,000 equivalent or more shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    All other contracts shall be let pursuant to the Borrower's standard
procurement procedures.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids fbr Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Empire of Ethiopia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Empire of
Ethiopia if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in the Empire of Ethiopia
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿19
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufacutred in the
Empire of Ethiopia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected fof the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $30,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended


﻿20
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the provisions
of this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


