Document of
The World Bank   FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3013-SYR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
March 6, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                            Syrian Pounds (LS) 3.925
LS 1.00              =            US$0.255
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to LS 3.95
(LS 1.00 - US$0.253) which represents the Central Bank's selling rate.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EMDPC                =          Educational Materials Development
and Production Center
HTI                             Health Technician Institute
IAI                             Intermediate Agricultural Institute
MDE                  =          Ministry of Education
MOH                  =          Ministry of Health
MDHE                            N Ministry of Higher Education
MPW                             Ministry of Public Works
SBO                  -          School Building Organization
SHC                  =          School Health Center
TTI                  =          Teacher Training Institute
VTC                             V Vocational Training Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:                   Syrian Arab Republic
Amount:                     US$15.6 million equivalent
Terms:                      17 years, including a grace period of four years
at 9.6 percent per annum.
Project Description:        The project is designed to assist the Govern-
ment in: (a) expanding vocational and technical
training for the agricultural, construction and
health sectors; (b) extending an ongoing program
to provide basic health services to school
children; (c) improving the quality of primary
and secondary education; and (d) studying ways to
upgrade management skills in the public sector.
In support of the above objectives, the project
would consist of: (a) construction/extension of,
and equipment and furniture for two Vocational
Training Centers, three Intermediate Agricultural
Institutes, two Health Technician Institutes,
fifty-five School Health Centers and one Educa-
tional Materials Development and Production
Center; and (b) technical assistance related to
the above, for curricula development, upgrading
of administrative and teaching staff, strengthening
project management and for a preinvestment study
for a Higher Institute for Administration Science.
The project institutions would add about 1,100
skilled construction workers, 200 agricultural
and 140 health technicians to the annual output
from the formal education system. In addition,
the coverage of the school preventive health
program would be strengthened and extended to
reach about 1,230,000 school children. The
project faces no special risks.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
------US$ (million)------
2 Vocational Training Centers                         2.14      3.06       5.20
3 Intermediate Agricultural Institutes                3.49      6.14       9.63
2 Health Technician Institutes                        3.63      4.61       8.24
55 School Health Centers                              2.31      3.77       6.08
1 Educational Materials Development and
Production Center                                   0.55      1.22       1.77
Technical Assistance:
Fellowships                                         0.19      0.78       0.97
Specialists                                         0.36      1.44       1.80
Baseline Cost                                        12.67     21.02      33.69
Physical Contingencies                                1.24      1.99       3.23
Price Contingencies                                   4.97      6.23      11.20
Total project Cost                                   18.88     29.24      48.12
Financing Pl-an:
Local    Foreign    Total
------US$ (million)------
Bank Loan                                              --      15.6       15.6
UNDP                                                   -        2.7        2.7
Government Contribution                              18.9      10.9       29.8
Total                                                18.9      29.2       48.1
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY  1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
US$ (million)
Annual                                       0.5    3.2    4.9    3.7    3.3
Cumulative                                   0.5    3.7    8.6   12.3   15.6
Appraisal Report: No. 3033-SYR, dated March 3, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Bank loan of US$15.6 million equivalent to the Syrian Arab Republic to help
finance a Second Education Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Development Prospects and Policies:  Report
of a 1977 World Bank Mission" (no. 1975a-SYR, dated February 22, 1980)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1980. This section
is based on that report and on the findings of an economic updating mission
which visited Syria in July 1980. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Economic Characteristics and Constraints
3.       Syria's population has grown at 3.3 percent per annum since 1960;
the urban population, which now represents almost one-half of the total, has
increased at a moderate rate. While the Government has made considerable
progress in reducing imbalances in economic and social conditions between
the rural and the urban areas, and between regions, the rural areas generally
and some of the regions continue to be the principal loci of relative
poverty and still have poor access to social services. The rapid population
growth has exerted considerable pressure and an especially high cost on the
economy for the provision of housing, health care and social services in
many urban centers. Syria has experienced a relatively low unemployment
rate (around 5 percent) in the recent past, largely as a result of the
large number of emigrant workers (currently estimated at 450,000 persons),
the high employment generation in the agriculture sector during the 1960's
and early 1970's and the low female participation rate.
4.       The economy is still mainly agricultural.  The sector engages about
32 percent of the labor force and has strong linkages with most of the
industrial activities, trade and transportation. Cotton is the second most
important export earner after petroleum. Water is a scarce resource in the
country and irrigated land comprises a small portion of the cultivated area.
The major schemes for extending irrigated land in the Euphrates and Balikh
Basins have encountered delays and have not yet resulted in any significant



- 2 -
additions to the irrigated acreage. Half of the agricultural production is
rainfed and is dominated by fluctuation in rainfall. Apart from the slow
progress in increasing irrigated acreage, other factors such as low cropping
intensity, inadequate extension services and excessive administrative
controls have contributed to the sluggish growth of output in this sector.
5.        Syria's industrial development started with the processing of
agricultural products, received an impetus from oil production in the 1960s
and has since made an important contribution to the growth of the economy.
Syria's industrial strategy has focused largely on import substitution in
consumer goods, and a substantial expansion of resource based industries,
such as cotton textiles, cement and fertilizers. During the 1970's, despite
the large investments channelled to this sector the growth performance,
especially in the latter years, has been rather poor. Two pervasive problems
have been the long delays in completing projects and the frequent occurrence
of start-up difficulties in plants. In established industries such as
textiles there is widespread capacity underutilization due to poor planning
and management. As a result, so far only modest success has been achieved
with respect to the import substitution and export promotion objectives for
the sector.
6.         In recent years, relatively broad-based public investment
outlays have taken place concurrent with large expenditures on national
security, as dictated by the unsettled political conditions in the Middle
East region. Growth of national security expenditures has absorbed virtually
the entire increase in the budget in recent years. Subsidy expenditures,
mainly for basic foodstuffs and petroleum products, have begun to be a major
drain on public sector resources, and the economy has become increasingly
dependent on foreign grants for financing budgetary and balance of
payments deficits. The inflow of grants became particularly large after the
Baghdad Arab Summit Conference of 1978 at which a number of Arab oil exporting
countries, particularly Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Kuwait, pledged to increase
their grants to Syria. However, the uncertainty surrounding the timing and
continuation of the aid flows makes it extremely difficult to plan expendi-
tures well ahead of time and to allocate budgetary funds when needed.
7.        Large public sector deficits, whether financed through grants
or by credits from the domestic banking system, have been the principal
source of inflation in the Syrian economy. Pressures on domestic prices
have gathered considerable momentum since 1979. Reductions in subsidies
on a number of commodities, recently effected or to be implemented, are to
be welcomed even though they will accentuate the rate of price increase in
the short run (para. 13).
8.       The export base of the Syrian economy is weak and depends heavily
on the petroleum sector. Export earnings from this source, despite a
decline in the volume since 1976, have accounted for more than two-thirds
of total merchandise exports during the period 1975-79. However, the
import bill for light crude oil (needed to blend with domestic crude for



refinery input) and refined petroleum products has represented a growing
share of the oil export revenues. Thus, by 1979 imports of crude and
refined petroleum were equal to about three-quarters of oil export earnings
(as compared to less than 17 percent in 1975) and nearly 55 percent of the
total merchandise exports. The consumption of petroleum products is rising
rapidly in the country, straining further the balance of payments. Unless
concerted efforts at energy conservation are made, or new oil fields are
discovered, Syria would cease to be a net exporter of petroleum as early as
1983 (the development of domestic gas resources would release some refined
products for export, but except for a temporary postponement would not, in
any significant way, change the petroleum trade balance).
Effectiveness of Planning and Public Policies
9.        With the tranformation of the economy in the 1960's from an
essentially laissez-faire system to a largely publicly-owned and centrally
regulated one, the Government became totally dominant in economic activities.
Due to implementation difficulties in the First (1961-65) and Second (1966-70)
Plans, reflecting mainly the frequent changes in the political situation and
the ideological perspectives of policy makers, economic growth during the
1960's was about 6 percent. In the 1970's, however, the rate of growth approached
the 8 percent per year target level set by the Third Plan (1971-75) compared
to nearly 6 percent per year growth achieved by the WDR sample of middle-income
countries. This reflected in part higher investment levels financed through
petroleum export earnings, boosted by the 1973 petroleum price increase, and
increased financial resource availability, following the sharp rise in Arab
grants after the 1974 Rabat Arab Summit Conference.
10.       The Fourth Five-Year Plan (1976-1980) originally set out
ambitious goals for accelerating the growth of the economy while at the
same time addressing pressing social issues. The Plan, with the original
investment allocations several times the size of those in the preceding
Plan, primarily aimed at: rapid industrialization; self-sufficiency in basic
food needs; modernization of transport and communication facilities;
and improvement in employment, living conditions and availability of
services in rural areas. However, the formulation of this Plan coincided
with the emergence of financial problems in 1976. The high investment
rates of 1974-75, a temporary decline in Arab aid and the impact of the
Lebanese Civil War severely curtailed the availability of resources. The
Government, therefore, delayed the finalization of the Fourth Plan and
unofficially cut down the scope of the Plan mainly to ongoing projects.
Finally, when the Fourth Plan was published it was used more as a guide
than a blueprint.
11.       Evaluation of Syria's Fourth Plan performance in relation to
targets indicates that although there was an adequate level of investment,
the rate of growth was low and the burden of growth failed to shift from the
services sector to agriculture and industry. The low growth rate reflects



- 4 -
implementation delays, large cost increases and the concentration, parti-
cularly in manufacturing, on large projects calling for lumpy investments
with long gestation periods. The failure to achieve Plan objectives high-
lights the need to develop a more effective planning mechanism and to
strengthen the execution capability of the public sector. Although adminis-
trative problems are too complex and deep rooted to allow an early solution,
strengthening administrative capacity and developing capability particularly
in the formulation and execution of development plans, programs and projects
need immediate attention. Indications are that the Government is presently
addressing some of these problems in the preparation of the new Five-Year
Plan (para. 15).
12.       The shortage of skilled manpower has been another major obstacle
in the way of efficient implementation of investment programs. The over-
all manpower situation and the difficulties in fostering an efficient
public sector have been exacerbated by emigration of trained technicians
and skilled labor abroad. To prevent critical shortages in the future,
there is a great need to provide extensive training facilities for augmenting
the supply of skilled manpower, especially in regions where a large propor-
tion of public investment is to take place.
13.       Economic management problems have been reflected in an uneven
pace of economic activity. Part of the problem arises from the political
situation in the Middle East region and the constraints imposed by the
geo-political circumstances confronting the policy makers. These have
subordinated economic policy to broader social and political objectives.
Monetary and fiscal policies have been under pressure, attempting to finance
the national security outlays and subsidy expenditures (for both consumption
and public enterprises) as well as meeting the investment needs of the
development plans. A persistent deficit in the trade balance, caused by
slow export growth and rapid import growth, has led to heavy dependence on
foreign grants. Cumulatively, these factors have led to a series of macro-
economic disequilibria: aggregate expenditures in the economy have substan-
tially exceeded domestic output; the domestic savings rate had declined to
about 10 percent of GDP by 1979 while the rate of investment amounted to 28
percent (despite a decline in real terms since 1977); and the resource gap
had widened to about 18 percent of GDP by 1979 (from about 12 percent in
1975).  The growth of money supply averaged about 24 percent annually in the
1975-79 period and the inflation rate is currently running well over 15
percent compared to about 8 percent per year during 1975-79 period.
14.       To respond to these problems the Government has recently made
efforts introduce fiscal austerity, restrict imports and devise ways to
improve export and saving performance. However, the balance of payments
problem which so far has been alleviated by the rising price of exported oil
and the inflow of foreign grants, will become more of a constraint on
development as Syria moves from the position of being a net exporter of



petroleum to that of a net importer. With the coming on stream of some
projects (notably textiles and cement) exports are expected to increase, but
to alleviate the balance of payments problem concerted efforts are urgently
needed to substantially expand the growth of merchandise exports other than
petroleum.
Medium Term Prospects and Capital Requirements
15.       The structural imbalances prevailing in the Syrian economy as it
enters the 1980s, i.e., the sluggish performance of the commodity producing
sectors, the low savings rate, and the large budgetary and external trade
deficits, coupled with the dwindling net exports of the petroleum sector,
call for the introduction of a comprehensive package of policy measures to rapidly
improve the performance of the economy and to restore macro-economic
equilibrium. The authorities are aware of the difficulties facing the
economy and have already undertaken, or are considering a number of
reform measures. Among them are the recent decisions to reduce or eliminate
subsidies on a number of commodities; to review the interest rate structure
and level; to introduce productivity-based incentives in public sector
industrial enterprises; and to essentially restrict the public investment
program in the initial years of the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1981-85), currently
under preparation, to the completion of projects presently under implementa-
tion. Reflecting the lessons of the Fourth Plan, the size of the investment
program and growth targets in the Fifth Plan are reportedly much more modest
than those set forth in the preceding Plan. The focus of the new Plan would
shift from physical investment, particularly in industry, to utilization of
existing capacity and to the development of human resources. The Plan would
also give priority to agriculture including investments in agro-industry and
rural development projects. Decisions in these directions would collectively
underscore the Government's determination to address the problems facing the
economy, to utilize resources more efficiently and to promote greater
self-reliance.
16.       The medium-term growth potential of the Syrian economy is encour-
aging. Notwithstanding the agricultural sector's past performance,
the prospects for output expansion appear to be substantial provided a
growth strategy is adopted which would include: (i) a shift in the investment
priorities in the sector towards the rehabilitation and upgrading of
existing facilities, and the identification and development of low cost
groundwater sources; (ii) provision of effective extension services to
increase crop yields and crop intensity; and (iii) a greater reliance on
price signals to encourage farmers to base decisions on product prices and
input costs, rather than administrative directives, which are inherently
difficult to administer. In the manufacturing sector, with the expected
completion of a several major projects over the next two years, substantial
expansion of output should take place. Particularly rapid growth is
expected in cement, fertilizers, and textile yarns. However, concerted
efforts are needed to ensure efficient operation of the enterprises and to
realize the full benefits of the heavy public investments in the sector



- 6 -
over the past few years. Initiatives are also urgently needed with respect
to export promotion. Projections, based on relatively favorable external
trade assumptions, indicate that the resource gap may increase from $1.6
billion in 1979 to about $3.1 billion (current prices) in 1985. Although
the projected gap would decline from 18 percent of GDP in 1979 to 14 percent
in 1985, it would still remain high, and unless financed by high levels of
grants and concessional loans, the debt service burden would rise to unmanage-
able levels in the latter part of this decade.
17.       The projections also suggest that with investment growth restrained
to around 3 percent, a GDP growth of around 5 percent is attainable over the
next five years. In this context, it is assumed that the efficiency of
investment will be increased, to reflect the expected emphasis in the public
sector on more efficient utilization of productive capacity, particulary in
industry, where in recent years capacity underutilization has been widespread.
Relatively modest growth rates for agriculture and services sectors (3 and 4
percent, respectively) are projected while it is assumed that the industrial
sector would grow at 8 percent, reflecting the past investment efforts
and the structural change needed to maintain viable GDP and employment
growth during the next five years. The import elasticity is assumed to
average 0.7 for 1980-85. This could be attained provided that the investment
program in the Fifth Plan emphasizes the agricultural sector, which is less
import intensive than industry, and imports are judiciously managed. The
projections assume that the decline in exports of petroleum would be more
than compensated by the rapid growth of manufactured goods which now have a
very low base.
External Debt
18.      External public debt at end 1979 amounted to $4.2 billion, of
which 54 percent or $2.3 billion was disbursed and outstanding. From the
total debt outstanding 82 percent was owed to bilateral sources, 11 percent
to international organizations, 5 percent to suppliers' credit and 2 percent
to financial institutions. Saudi Arabia, U.S.A., U.S.S.R., and the German
Democratic Republic were the main sources of bilateral loans. Debt outstanding
(disbursed) reached 21 percent of GDP in 1979, compared to 18 percent in
1978. The average terms of external loans contracted during 1975-1979
were 3.9 percent interest and a maturity of 17.8 years with 4.7 years of
grace. Debt service ratio declined to 15.8 percent in 1979 from 19 percent
in 1978, and is projected to rise to around 20 percent by 1985. The Bank
Group's share in total debt service payment is projected to increase from
4.2 percent in 1979 to 6.5 percent in 1985, and in total public debt out-
standing and disbursed to decline from 6.9 percent in 1979 to around 2.5
percent in 1985.
19.       Syria has followed a very cautious external debt policy and the
loans contracted have been on highly concessionary terms. Moreover, the
large flow of transfers from Arab states (notably Saudi Arabia, Kuwait
and Iraq) has allowed Syria to incur large trade deficits without recourse
to excessive external borrowings. Subject to continued prudent external
debt management, Syria remains creditworthy for Bank lending.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
20.       Syria has to date received four IDA credits totalling $47.3
million and fourteen loans totalling $468.1 million (including one loan of
$12.5 million on Third Window terms), net of cancellations. Although Syria
is a member of the Corporation, IFC has made no investments. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank loans as of December
31, 1980.
21.       Bank Group assistance to Syria has in the past largely been for
the development of physical and social infrastructure. The growth of public
services to meet the demands of the expanding economy have been supported by
three operations in the power sector, one in the telecommunications and
three in the highways subsectors.   Three operations have assisted the
development of the water supply systems in Syria's two major and rapidly
growing cities, Damascus and Aleppo. Bank participation in these sectors
has supported the adoption of consistent and rational policies and helped
introduce important changes by strengthening the planning and execution
capabilities and the operational effectiveness of the project implementation
agencies. The Livestock Development project, approved in FY1977, provides
for fundamental improvements in feed and flock management policy as well as
credit to sheep farmers, most of whom are among Syria's poor nomadic popula-
tion, with the objective of increasing and stabilizing incomes in the sheep
subsector thoughout Syria.   In FY1978, a loan was approved to assist the
First Education project, which focussed on the expansion of vocational and
technical training and improving the training of teachers. The Cottonseed
Oil Processing project, for which a loan was approved in FY1979, aims at
rationalizing and increasing the processing capacity of state mills, but is
still not effective due to delays in the recruitment of consultants. The
Lower Euphrates Drainage project, for which a loan was also approved in
FY1979, is designed to protect valuable irrigated land from the spread of
salinity and to increase agricultural production.
22.       Despite cordial and close relations, Bank activities in Syria have
been hampered by difficulties experienced in establishing a sustained dialogue
on economic policies and by the lack of expeditious action in resolving
sectoral and project issues. The political and military turbulence of the
Middle East -- with the consequent drain on Syria's resources requiring
considerable reliance on outside financial support -- have frequently diverted
the attention of policy-makers from grappling with problems of economic
management and development in a concerted manner, and prevented the development
of a firm program of cooperation with the Bank. Nevertheless, a dialogue with
the Bank was initiated in 1977 during the preparation of the Basic Economic
Report (1975a-SYR) and has been resumed since, on such occasions as the
discussions on that report and subsequent economic updating missions. The
Bank has also been involved with studies in the transportation and agricultural
sectors. Although working relationships with most of the Syrian entities
dealing with Bank-financed projects are excellent, weaknesses in decision



- 8 -
making and in administrative efficiency have at times hindered the pace and
effectiveness of Bank operations by delaying the preparation and implementation
of projects. Some problems, such as delays in adjusting the power and tele-
communication tariffs to meet the covenanted rates of return, have in due
course been resolved whereas others (e.g., on procurement) remain a cause of
occasional difficulties. Overall, the impact of Bank assistance, in areas
such as infrastructure and education, has been significant, but progress in
the execution of projects is uneven. Disbursement of credits and loans
was, as of December 31, 1980, about 40 percent of appraisal estimates and
about 60 percent of revised estimates.
23.       Future lending operations in Syria would continue to support develop-
ment in areas where the Government assigns great value to Bank assistance
(such as education) and where sectoral policies permit Bank financing.
In addition, should sectoral and project implementation constraints be removed,
projects under preparation would put a greater emphasis on the social aspects
of development (in water supply and sewerage) and also help increase productivity
in the agricultural sector through rehabilitation of irrigation systems and
the improvement of agricultural practices in rainfed areas. The proposed
operations described above would aim at substantial policy and institutional
improvements, especially in those sectors in which the Bank has not been
previously involved; they would, therefore, include significant technical
assistance and training components to achieve these objectives.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
24.       Progress in the overall development of the education system over
the past decade has been remarkable. Enrollments at the primary (grades
1-6), preparatory (grades 7-9) and secondary (grades 10-12) levels have
increased from 71 percent, 41 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of the
relevant age groups in 1970, to 89 percent, 63 percent and 30 percent
of the same age groups in 1979. Female participation rates as a percentage
of total enrollments are among the highest in the Middle East (41 percent at
primary, 44 percent at preparatory, 35 percent at secondary level). Enroll-
ments in the secondary technical schools increased 128 percent between 1970
and 1978 and now represent 13 percent of total secondary enrollments. At
the same time, university enrollments increased from 36,800 in 1970 to
85,000 in 1978, representing 13 percent of the age group. Government
efforts to divert higher education students into technician training programs
has resulted in an increase in those enrolled in such programs from 7,700 in
1974 to 20,000 in 1978.   The quality of education at the primary level has
also shown remarkable improvement over the same period. A new and more
balanced curriculum has been introduced and, with the development of a
regional network of primary teacher training institutes the shortage of
well-qualified primary teachers has been met.



- 9 -
25.       The Ministry of Education (MOE) and Ministry of Higher Education
(MOHE) have the responsibility for formal education and training. The MOE
is responsible for primary, preparatory, general and technical education
and primary teacher training. The MOHE is responsible for establishing
general policy guidelines, ensuring coordination among the three univer-
sities and the Higher Institute of Technology, and determining each year
the number of students to be admitted to the different faculties at each
university. A number of other ministries, in particular Agriculture,
Culture, Health, Industry, Labor, Petroleum, Public Works and Social Affairs,
are active in training related to their special fields. A National Co-
ordinating Entity is being established, as required under the First Educa-
tion project, for the planning, supervision and coordination, at the national
level, of vocational training and technical education.
Education Policy
26.       The Government's development strategy in education, as outlined in
the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1976-80) and which is likely to be
pursued in the new Five-Year Plan (1981-85), is directed towards promoting
equity, quality and relevance of education, while pursuing a better adapta-
tion of the system to the manpower training needs of the economy. Accordingly,
the Government's educational strategy emphasizes: (a) universal enrollment
of the 6-11 age group by 1986, progressing to a nine-year basic education
cycle by 1991; (b) intensification of the literacy campaign to reach by 1991
all of the estimated 2,000,000 (42 percent of the population over 12 years
of age) considered illiterate; (c) maintenance of current output of primary
teachers while increasing the proportion of female teachers and upgrading
the level of teacher qualification and training; (d) correction of the
imbalance between supply and demand of skilled and semi-skilled manpower by
increasing the number of Intermediate Industrial Institutes, increasing the
enrollments in secondary technical schools to 25 percent of secondary
enrollments by 1991 and expanding vocational training, while establishing
a national entity to coordinate and supervise all aspects of vocational/
technical training; (e) increase in the supply of agriculture and health
technicians by expanding the enrollment capacity of the Agriculture and
Health Intermediate Institutes while providing the facilities and equipment
to improve the quality of training; (f) stabilization of university enroll-
ments at a targetted 120,000 students by 1986 by limiting the progression of
students into general secondary schools, expanding technical education, and
increasing the proportion of students in the faculties of science, mathematics
and technology; and (g) provision of preventive health and dental care, as
well as a more systematic health and nutrition education.
Issues and Problems
27.       Despite the remarkable progress made, the Government is
confronted with a number of problems which have grown in magnitude with
the development of the sector. Unsuitability of school buildings is one
of the major problems adversely affecting the quality of education. Over
40 percent of primary schools were not built for the purpose, about 50



- 10 -
percent are rented and are in poor condition. In addition, the virtual
absence of educational materials and equipment -- a problem to be
addressed through the proposed project (para. 46) -- makes the implemen-
tation of the new curricula difficult. The problem of unsuitable
accommodation is compounded in the secondary cycle by the lack of science
laboratories, libraries and practical working areas. Unless and until
this problem is corrected, the planned expansion in practical activities
in secondary schools will have only limited application.
28.       Problems also persist related to regional disparity in the
provision of basic education. Primary school participation in the more
remote regions varies from 66 percent to 77 percent of the relevant age
group, against a national average of 89 percent. The disparities become
more marked when differentiated by sex and between rural and urban areas.
The Government has introduced compulsory primary education in 6 of 14
regions but faces social as well as financial problems in extending this
program, particularly regarding girls, to the more remote rural areas.
The emphasis placed on increasing the role of women in teaching (67 percent
of all new trainees in 1978 were women) should help in overcoming one major
obstacle to the participation of girls in rural areas. Although progress
has been made in improving the adult literacy level (from 48 percent in 1970
to 58 percent in 1978) striking disparities still exist by region, with
50-70 percent literacy in the more developed regions and only 25 percent in
some remote rural areas. Weaknesses in the current literacy program (e.g.
shortage of trained instructors and teaching material, limited duration and
scope) have been identified by a UNESCO study and measures are under study
to revamp the effectiveness of the program.
29.       The rapid growth in general secondary and postsecondary enroll-
ments, together with the limited progress made in adapting curricula to
the changing needs of the economy, have brought about a structural imbalance
between the supply of the education system and manpower requirements. The
problem has been compounded recently by the emigration of skilled manpower
to the Gulf States because of higher salaries and wages offered than in
Syria. Preliminary results of a manpower study by an ILO expert indicate
severe shortages of skilled and semiskilled workers in the construction and
industrial sectors. An estimated 7,000 workers are needed annually for the
construction industry, while current output amounts to about 1,400 annually.
At present, training is provided in nine Regional Centers of the Ministry of
Public Works (MOPW). Immediate plans call for expansion of output to about
2,500 annually by 1983 and for improvement in the quality of training --
objectives to be supported through the proposed project (para. 36) with a
further expansion to 4,400 annually by 1986. The output of skilled workers
for the industrial sector is being increased with support under the First
Education project and through bilateral assistance programs. It appears,
however, that further expansion would be needed to meet the rapidly increasing
needs of the economy. An ongoing government study is expected to provide a
more complete picture of the training requirements in this sector, so as to



- 11 -
determine the composition of the required expansion in training facilities.
Manpower shortages are also apparent in the health sector, in particular for
paramedical personnel. This, together with an uneven distribution of
physicians and other medical facilities, has resulted in poor health services,
with curative orientation in most areas. The development of a school health
service, for which support is proposed under this project (paras. 44-45), is
a major step in the development of preventive medicine in all areas of the
country. In addition, the proposed doubling in the output of health techni-
cians to 270 annually in the eastern and central regions, to be supported
under this project (para.42), would help meet most of the needs for such
personnel in those regions, while the health technician institute in Damascus
(presently being developed with bilateral assistance) would serve the health
technician needs of the southern region. The difficulties of recruitment
into nursing, particularly of women, in view of cultural and social attitudes
towards nursing, may prove to be a serious constraint in meeting staffing
needs in rural areas, and would need to be further addressed by the Govern-
ment. The most serious deficiencies in the training of skilled personnel
for the agricultural sector are qualitative rather than quantitative. The
increase in the output of technicians from 400 to 600 annually, to be
supported under the proposed project (para. 39), would meet projected
demand while also introducing required new specializations and improving
the quality of training.
30.       The general secondary school curriculum continues to have a
theoretical and academic bias and this inflates the demand for university
education, particularly in non-scientific fields. This has led to a very
high portion of the educational capital budget being spent on higher
education, despite the urgent need for extensive capital investment at
the lower levels. The present government strategy to divert secondary
school students into vocational streams should help restrain future university
growth. In the short term, however, restrictions on enrollments would also
need to be imposed, particularly for those faculties with limited prospects
for employment. While progress has been made in balancing supply and
requirements of teachers at the primary cycle, severe shortages of qualified
teachers, particularly of science and mathematics, are still experienced at
the secondary level. As a temporary solution, the Government has resorted
to employing teachers on overtime or part-time basis, attempting at the same
time to attract an adequate supply of teachers through various incentive
measures, such as increased salary, shorter teaching loads and removal of
extracurricular responsibilities for qualified teachers. The establishment
of a two-year post-secondary intermediate institute to train mathematics and
science teachers and a cadre of teachers specifically for the lower secondary
level is an additional measure that has been considered but not yet implemented
because of a perceived difficulty in recruiting trainees. In view of the
persisting shortage of qualified mathematics and science teachers, establish-
ment of such an institute should be given further consideration.
Educational Finance
31.       Total public education expenditures as a percentage of total
government expenditures, varied between 8.8 percent and 10.3 percent



- 12 -
during the 1974-78 period, while education expenditures as a percentage
of GDP increased from 3.0 percent in 1974 to 4.4 percent in 1978, indica-
ting a modest increase in the allocation of resources to the education
sector despite slower growth in GDP. Because of rapid growth in university
enrollments, higher education accounted for a very high 67 percent of the
capital budget for education but a more reasonable 27 percent of recurrent
expenditures. This skewed capital expenditure is likely to be reversed
during the 1980's as the new Plan is expected to focus more on primary
and secondary education. Based on projected enrollment increases, recurrent
expenditures are estimated to increase at an annual rate of 9.5 percent,
while capital expenditures are estimated to increase by about 6 percent per
year during 1979-86. Total expenditures on education would thus represent
about 5.5 percent of the projected GDP and 10.1 percent of the government
budget in 1986. The Government is expected to maintain this level of
expenditure in view of the high priority attached by it to education.
Bank Lending Strategy for Education
32.       The Bank's support for education in Syria has been consistent
with the Government's educational objectives and priorities. The First
Education project (Loan 1480-SYR) aimed at improving the quality and
relevance of education through improved teacher training facilities, the
development of practical curricula, the diversification of training programs
and the establishment of a mechanism to coordinate vocational/technical
education and training activities. Implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily and the project is expected to be completed on schedule. The
proposed second project would assist the Government in meeting shortages of
craftsmen for the construction sector and of technicians for the agricul-
tural and health sectors, while also providing support in the development
of a system of preventive medecine aimed at school children. The proposed
project would also provide support in improving the quality of education
through the establishment of an Educational Materials Development and
Production Center. The focus of future assistance for the education
sector would be determined through a dialogue with the Government in the
context of the new Plan. This would allow a determination of appropriate
Bank assistance in the formal school system at both primary and secondary
levels; non-formal education and training; farmer training and extension
services; critical skill shortages in a variety of sectors; and management
and administrative training.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
33.       The project was prepared by the Government following a Bank
project identification mission in February/March 1979 and a subsequent
Bank preparation assistance mission in June/July 1979. The project was



- 13 -
appraised in January/ February 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. from February 20, 1981, to February 27,1981, with a Syrian delegation
led by Mr. Diab S. Sahyoun of the State Planning Commission. A Staff.
Appraisal Report entitled "Second Education Project, Syrian Arab Republic"
(No. 3033-SYR) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
The main features of the project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary;
a Supplemental Project Data Sheet, Annex III, and a map showing the location
of project institutes are also attached.
Project Objectives
34.       The proposed project would have the following objectives: (a)
expand vocational training to meet the severe shortage of craftsmen for
the construction sector as well as to improve opportunities for self-
employment; (b) assist in providing more effective training of agricul-
tural technicians; (c) expand health technician education and assist in
the program of preventive medicine by providing basic health and dental
services for school children as well as health and nutrition education;
and (d) improve the quality of education through the establishment of an
Educational Materials Development and Production Center to develop simple
science and handicrafts materials and curriculum-oriented audiovisual
software.
Project Description and Content
35.       In support of the above objectives, the project would consist
of: (a) construction/extension of and equipment and furniture for two
Vocational Training Centers, three Intermediate Agricultural Institutes, two
Health Technician Institutes, fifty-five School Health Centers, and one
Educational Materials Development and Production Center; and (b) technical
assistance related to the above, for curricula development, upgrading of
administrative and teaching staff, strengthening project management and for
a preinvestment study for a Higher Institute for Administrative Science.
36.       Vocational Training Centers (VTCs).  This component would help
relieve the shortage of skilled workers for the construction industry as
well as improve the quality of training. Two facilities built and
equipped for the purpose would replace inadequate facilities operated by
the Ministry of Public Works (MOPW) in Damascus and Aleppo.   The combined
capacity of the two Centers would be increased from 400 to 1,020 students.
Annual output from fulltime courses would amount to about 1,600 (800 from
each Center), meeting about 23% of estimated national needs. Fulltime
training would vary from 5 to 9 months, depending on the specialization
(electrical, mechanical and construction trades). Entrance requirements
would be a minimum age of 18 and completion of primary education; in addition,
admission to training would be extended, as a matter of policy, to those
attaining basic literacy and numeracy outside the formal education system.
Fulltime courses would have 42 periods per week of which 30 periods would be
devoted to practical training. In addition, each Center would provide
part-time, nonformal courses of varying duration, during the later part of
the day, for apprenticeship training, skill upgrading and artisans' inservice
training related to construction trades.



- 14 -
37.       About 50 additional teachers would be required -- 38 for prac-
tical subjects and the equivalent of 12 fulltime teachers for theoretical
subjects. No difficulty in instructor recruitment is foreseen as recruit-
ment sources for both practical and theoretical subject teachers appear
adequate and the salary scales and working conditions are quite favorable.
38.       Ninety-nine man-months of specialists' services would be provided
to: (a) introduce new training specializations; (b) develop an appropriate
training system and initiate instuctor training programs; (c) update the
existing courses and instructional materials; and (d) help prepare equipment
specifications. The project would also provide 39 man-months of fellowships
to train abroad 13 staff in curriculum development, instructor training
and audiovisual aids.
39.       Intermediate Agricultural Institutes (IAIs).  The project would
provide additional classrooms, workshops, laboratories and related equipment,
and technical assistance for improving and expanding training at the three
IAIs (grades 13 to 14) of Damascus, Aleppo and Lattakia. The three IAIs,
operated by the Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE), would have under the
planned expansion a combined enrollment of 1,550 (30% women) and an annual
output of about 600, meeting the estimated annual need of qualified technicians
required for the agricultural extension and research services, and the
agroindustries currently being expanded.
40.       The program of studies is uniform in all institutes except for
a tobacco specialization provided in the Lattakia IAI. It would include
second-year specializations in crop production, animal production, food
technology and home economics. The introduction of the two latter speciali-
zations reflect the growing recognition of the needs in these fields and the
participation of women in the extension and agricultural support services.
Curricula, satisfactory to the Bank, have been developed; about 60% of
school periods would be devoted to practical training making extensive use
of the experimental farms attached to each institute. In addition to
regular programs, in-service training would be provided to former IAI
graduates through short-term ad hoc courses. Each IAI is expected to enroll
about 25 trainees in the in-service training program at any given time.
41.       No difficulty is expected in recruiting the approximately 40
instructors required for each new specialization from among university
graduates in agriculture, science and engineering. However, 36 man-months
of specialists' services would be provided to help the initial development
of new specializations in food technology and home economics and to improve
planning, extension and nutrition. About 36 man-months of short-term
fellowships would also be provided to upgrade the teaching ability of 12
existing teaching staff.
42.       Health Technician Institutes (HTIs).  To assist in meeting the
shortage of health technicians in the central and eastern regions of the
country and to improve the quality of training, the project would provide



- 15 -
new buildings for the existing HTIs in Homs and Deir-ez-Zor, operated by
the Ministry of Health (MOH), to replace inadequate temporary facilities.
Total enrollments (grades 13-14) would be increased from 300 to 600 (50
percent women) and the anticipated output of 270 would meet almost all of
the estimated demand for health technicians in those regions. Five
specializations would be offered (pathology, pharmacology, radiology,
physiotherapy and sanitation) with curricula emphasizing practical activi-
ties in the above-mentioned subjects. Employment for health technicians is
assured, given the prevailing shortage and the system of obligatory service
in the MOH or other ministries for four years following graduation.
43.       Approximately 42 instructors and teachers would be required for
full operation of the two HTIs. They would be recruited from graduates
of HTI courses in Damascus and the medical and science faculties. The
recruitment of full-time qualified senior staff for the HTIs is expected to
be difficult in the short term owing to the location and the uncompetitive
salaries. In the medium-term, as the available supply of doctors increases,
this problem is expected to ease. The. Government is also considering the
increase of incentives such as housing and teaching allowances to make these
posts more attractive. During the development stage of the HTIs, MOH will
supplement the limited full-time staff by using qualified local medical
doctors and other experienced local health specialists as part-time staff.
To assist the two HTIs in the detailed development and application of the
specializations, upgrading staff quality and improving management, 35
man-months of specialists' services would be provided under the project. In
addition, 98 man-months of fellowship training abroad would be provided for
26 senior instructors.
44.       School Health Centers (SHCs).  The project would assist the
Government in restructuring and expanding the existing program of preventive
medicine for school children which is organized by the Ministry of Education
(MOE). At present, the program is operated through 160 school health units
(staffed by 62 physicians, 22 dentists and 110 nurses), in each case using a
school classroom without the benefit of health or dental equipment. Under
the proposed project, 55 SHCs would be constructed, furnished and equipped,
each SHC supervising and assisting 4 to 5 health units and serving between
20,000 to 25,000 children (grades 1 to 12). The 55 SHCs, with approximately
260 health units under them (including the existing 160), would thus reach
about 1,230,000 school children (58 percent of the total).
45.       Each SHC would have one or two physicians and one or two nurses;
one dentist would serve two SHCs. Each health unit would have one nurse.
The school health staff would carry out the following activities either in
the SHC or in the school health unit: (a) examine children regularly for
general health and dental status; (b) immunize any children requiring it;
(c) inspect school hygiene, including food and water and report to the
regional education director; and (d) supervise the quality of the school
food program. In addition, the SHC staff will conduct short courses in
health and nutrition for pupils, teachers and parents. The school health
program will be coordinated with the general public health activities of



- 16 -
the MOH's regional offices but responsibility for its planning, development
and operation will rest with the MOE's Department of School Health. Locations
for the 55 new SHCs have already been selected. Based on the successful
recruitment to date (due, inter alia, to the possibility offered to the
staff to continue their medical practice on a part-time basis), and the
specialized training of key staff which has already started, no difficulty
is anticipated in staffing the SHCs and the expanded system of health units.
To improve the capacity of the SHC staff and the MOE's School Health Depart-
ment staff, 107 man-months of fellowships for 15 staff in nursing, health
education, health planning, nutrition and dentistry, would be provided under
the proposed technical assistance. One man-month of specialist services
would also be provided to assist in the reorganization and evaluation of
the school health programs.
46.       Educational Materials Development and Production Center (EMDPC)
The proposed Center, managed by the Ministry of Education, would: (a)
design and produce prototypes of projected and nonprojected aids directly
related to the syllabi and textbooks recently introduced in the primary
school, and which can realistically and economically be reproduced in
quantity; (b) evaluate the quality and effectiveness of the prototypes
produced by the Center as well as items commercially available; (c) purchase
and assemble materials, components and specialized items from local and
foreign sources; (d) distribute finished items or kits to schools; and (e)
provide support services in the form of instruction on the assembly, use and
simple maintenance of the aids as well as related hardware supplied to
schools. Projected aids or their components would be designed and produced
in quantity by the Center subject to the specifications required and cost
comparisons with similar items available on the market. In the first phase,
the Center would concentrate on the development of educational materials
which are based on the new activity-oriented curriculum for 100 selected
primary schools and 12 primary Teacher Training Institutes (TTIs) in 12
governorates, and would supply 2,000 kits of science apparatus, and audio-
visual aids. Coverage of the primary level will be expanded following
evaluation of the first phase of operation of the Center. In the subsequent
stage, the Center is also expected to play a significant role in improving
the quality of preparatory and secondary education.
47.       The staff required for full operation of the Center would be
about 30, including the managers, scientists, specialist technicians, and
supporting staff. About 12 staff would be transferred from the existing
Media Department of MOE and no difficulty is anticipated in recruitment of
the remaining staff. A total of 19 man-months of specialists' services are
included under the proposed project to assist with the preparation of
production procedures and programs in the initial months and of bidding
documents. In addition, 14 fellowships for a total of 93 man-months of
training related to specific areas of specialization in the Center would
also be provided.



- 17 -
48.       Technical Assistance.  To ensure the success of the project and
the attainment of its qualitative objectives, a substantial technical
assistance component has been included under the project. In summary 208
man-months of specialists' services and 397 man-months of fellowships would
be provided to promote curriculum development, upgrade teaching staff
quality, improve administrative practices, strengthen the management capa-
bilities of the concerned ministries and develop training programs to
upgrade the quality of public administration. (A detailed list of experts
and fellowships by component is provided in the Annex to Schedule II of the
draft Loan Agreement). This component comprises three elements:
(a) Project related specialists' services and fellowships. In view of
the innovative nature of some project institutions (i.e., the
School Health Centers and the Educational Materials Development
and Production Center), and because of the introduction of new
specializations in agricultural and health education, 190 man-months
of specialists' services and 373 man-months of fellowships have
been included under the project;
(b)  Project Management Support.  This item would provide 24 man-months
of fellowships abroad to improve project implementation and
management capabities of key staff in the four ministries concerned
(MOE, MOH, MOHE, MOPW); and
(c) Preinvestment Study. This component would provide 18 man-months
of specialists' services for a preinvestment study related to the
proposed Higher Institute of Administrative Science, under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education, which would
address the problem of poor management in the civil service and
public enterprises, through provision of preservice and inservice
training courses. The activities of the Institute are expected to
include training of public officials and public administration
experts and providing research and consultancy services for the
public sector. Three international experts would develop proposals
for the training programs and staffing requirements for such an
Institute and recommend the most suitable project design by the
end of 1982. The proposals would be reviewed by the Bank and the
Government for possible inclusion in a future project.
The Government has agreed to employ the specialists proposed under the
technical assistance program (a, b and c above), in accordance with a
schedule satisfactory to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about $48.1
million, of which about $29.2 million would be in foreign exchange. The
project would be exempt from import duty and taxes. Physical contingencies



- 18 -
have been calculated at 10 percent for civil works, furniture and equip-
ment and 5 percent for technical assistance. Local costs are expected to
increase by 14 percent in 1981-1982, and 8 percent thereafter. Foreign
costs are expected to increase, during the project implementation period,
by averaged yearly rates of 7.2 percent per technical assistance, 7.7
percent for civil works, and 8.5 percent for furniture and equipment.
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $15.6 million would cover the full
foreign exchange cost of equipment (32.4 percent of total project cost and
53.4 percent of total foreign exchange cost). The foreign exchange cost
($2.7 million) of the technical assistance component ($3.4 million) would be
met by the UNDP. In line with recent experience, technical assistance cost
estimates are based upon: (a) average man-month costs of about $8,470 (fees
and per diem allowances) for experts, and about $2,200 for fellowships, and
(b) average travel costs to and from home office or study base abroad of
about $1,100 per individual. The Government has not sought Bank financing for
the foreign exchange cost for civil works and furniture ($10.9 million) which,
as well as all local costs ($18.9 million), will be met from its own resources.
Recurrent Costs of Project
51.       When fully operational in 1986, the project institutions are
estimated to require LS 41.6 million ($10.5 million equivalent) annually
for recurrent costs, or about 0.2 percent of projected public recurrent
expenditures on education at that time. As many project components would
replace existing institutions, incremental recurrent costs would only amount
to LS 15.4 million ($3.9 million equivalent) or 0.1 percent of total 1986
recurrent costs for education.
Implementation
52.       The construction, furnishing and equipping of all schools and
the technical assistance component are scheduled to be completed by June
30, 1986. The Closing Date would be December 31, 1986.
53.       Each project component will be carried out by project implemen-
tation units within the respective Ministries. The MOE components (the
SHCs and the EMDPC) would be carried out through an existing project
implementation team, which has been effective in implementing its compo-
nents under the First Education project, working with the central and
local offices of the School Building Organization (SBO), which is a part
of the MOE. The MOPW, MOH, and MOHE have designated existing key staff
(a director, an architect/engineer, procurement specialist and an accountant)
to be responsible for implementation of their project component. The Engineering
Departments of the Universities of Damascus, Lattakia and Aleppo would carry
out the design and supervision of the physical aspects of MOHE project
components. The Engineering Department of the University of Damascus would
also be responsible for the design and supervision of the physical aspects



- 19 -
of the MOH project components. Standard construction documents for the SHCs
have already been prepared. Designs for the MOPW component are completed
and construction is underway. Preliminary drawings for the IAIs, HTIs, and
EMPPC, based on educational and architectural working papers already agreed
with the Bank, would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval by
June 1981. Satisfactory sites for all project institutions have been
acquired. To ensure compliance with design standards and coordination of
procurement of all project elements, the Government provided the following
assurances during negotiations: (i) design development drawings, including
laboratory and workshop equipment and furniture layouts, and furniture
lists would be acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04
(b)); and (ii) arrangements for construction would proceed in accordance
with an agreed implementation schedule, under which civil works contracts
for the respective project institutions would have been awarded prior to
commencement of bidding for furniture and equipment for that institution
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)).
54.       Equipment lists have been prepared for the VTC's, the EMPDC and
one of the IAI's.  More detailed lists for the other components are expected
to be completed by the end of June 1981.
55.       During negotiations the Government requested, and the Bank agreed
to be the executing agency for the technical assistance component that will
be financed by UNDP (para. 48).
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       The Government will finance all civil works and furniture con-
tracts. Civil works contracts would be awarded to and furniture would be
procured from the local construction and furniture manufacturing industries
which have the necessary capabilities. Contracts for equipment in excess
of US$ 100,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Small items or groups
of items estimated to cost less than $100,000, or items of a specialized
nature for which ICB would not be practical would be procured under normal
government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. The total value
of these items would not exceed $3.0 million (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4,
Section C).
57.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and of the ex-factory
cost for locally manufactured equipment and 85 percent of expenditures for
imported equipment procured locally.
Benefits and Risks
58.       The proposed project would make a valuable contribution towards
expanding and upgrading the quality of training for the construction industry
and the agriculture and health sectors.   The Vocational Training Centers



- 20 -
being supported under the project would meet 23 percent of estimated annual
needs for craftsmen in the construction sector. Opportunity for such training
would be extended to those attaining basic literacy and numeracy outside the
formal system. For the agricultural sector, technician training would be
expanded to introduce two new specializations, food technology and home
economics, which would increase the role of women in the extension and agri-
cultural support services and meet the projected needs for trained personnel
in those specializations. The quality of health care for the less well-off is
expected to show major improvement with the availability of the necessary
output of trained technicians. At the same time, preventive medicine would
receive a major impetus through the extensive coverage of the school health
service. Finally, the Educational Mlaterials Development and Production Center
is expected to play an important role in improving the quality of education by
providing supportive material for the new curricula, initially at the primary
level and subsequently at the preparatory and secondary levels.
59.       Successful implementation of the project requires:  (a) the
appointment of the key implementation staff at an early date; and (b)
a Government commitment that measures would be taken to complete the civil
works and furniture procurement in accordance with an agreed implementation
schedule. The key implementation staff were designated prior to negotiations
(para. 53) while assurances on the latter were provided during negotiations
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)). The project faces no special risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Syrian Arab Republic and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 6, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 21-                                                      Page 1 of 6
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERBGES
LA'D AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KMA)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
TOTAL            185.2                                                       MIDDLE INCOKE
AGRICULTLRAL     140.4                                 MOST RECENT           108TH AFRICA S           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMEICA 6 CAlIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  200.0       380.0    1070.0                 818.5                   1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     321.0        502.0     968.0                 545.0                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       4.6         6.3       8.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.8         43.3       52.5                 45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       15.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         33.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        25.0        34.0      44.0                  40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      31.0        47.0      58.0                 598.6                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.2        45.2      48.3                  44.0                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                          52.0        50.1      47.7                  52.5                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.8         4.7       4.0                   3.5                      3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7         3.2        3.2                  2.6                      2.7
URBAN                               4.2         4.8       5.8                   4.5                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0        50.0       45.0                 41.6                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.0        18.0       13.0                 13.7                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4         3.5        3.4                  2.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..         ..                 16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          128.0        88.0     155.0                  93.5                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.0        97.0     108.0                 103.6                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           66.0        66.0      77.0                  69.8                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0        19.0      24.0                  17.5                     33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      29.0        19.0       14.0                 17.5                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.0          54.0       57.0                 54.4                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                      ..       105.0        ..                    ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        71.0      75.0                  62.5                     65.9
URBAN                                ..          ..      80.0                  82.9                     80.4
RURAL                                ..          ..      70.0                  45.1                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..                    ..                     62.3
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..                    ..                     79.4
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..                    ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4600.0      3860.0    2510.0                4688.7                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      6660.0      4500.0    3810.0                1751.5                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             930.0      1010.0     200.0                 635.5                    480.3
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        24.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.9 /c      5.9
URBAN                               6.0 7W      5.9
RURAL                               5.9 7W-     5.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.9          ..
URBAN                               2.5          ..
RURAL                               3.2          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              38.0 /c     41.7
URBAN                              87.7 7T     84.7
RURAL                              10.5 7T     10.2



- 22 -                                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA b            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  65.0         89.0      103.0                  76.4                      99.7
tALLE                 89.0        110.0      120.0                  92.2                     101.0
FEMALE                39.0         66.0       85.0                  59.9                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  16.0         38.0       51.0                  33.3                      34.4
MALE                  25.0         55.0       67.0                  41.9                      33.5
FEMALE                 7.0         21.0       35.0                  24.2                      34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   6.0            3.4        4.6                   9.8                      38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             46.0         37.0      33.0                   39.2                     30.5
SECONDARY                           21.0         22.0      20.0                   25.1                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         30.0         40.0       53.0                  39.7                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION   .                       4.0          5.0        8.3                  15.3                      43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          57.0        224.0         ..                 139.6                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.2         19.0      31.0                   29.0                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..        9.0                  22.2                      63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            4.0/d      5.5                   2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1277.1       1573.8    1967.1
FE.MiALE (PERCENT)                   9.4         10.5       12.0                   9.6                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               54.2         51.1       48.9                  47.0                      37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0         20.8       22.0                  23.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.0         26.6       26.0                  26.1                      31.5
MALE                                  49.4         46.3       45.2                  47.4                      48.9
FEMALE                                 5.4          5.7        6.0                   4.7                      14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                2.0          2.0        2.1                   1.9                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   25.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  49.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           .,         ..                 262.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 140.4                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVF POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (LS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ,.           ,.     278.0                  202.1                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     278.0                  122.2                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
LRBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  22.1
RL'RAL                                ..           ..         ..                  33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are popolation-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 197C, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962; /d 1966.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 23 -                                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS IOF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data are drawn ftro  s-ances generally jadged the most anshoettatina and reliable, it ahold also he noted chat they may not be inter-
nationally comparable because of the lank of staedardieed definition. and concepts used by diff-rent courtes In collecting the data.  The data are, none-
thelnes  aseful to des-ibhe oedees of sagsitsde, iodicate treeds, aod ohar-eteetne ceetain sajoe differences bhtoeent ountries.
The refereece grnspe ate 11) the same coantoy groop of the sobjet caaetry and (2) a coontro grocp ath soi eohat higher average ior..e than the coaetry greap
of the aobjert couetey (excepn far "Espital Sarpiua  il Eoporters" gosp_  here "Fiddle Inco=e North Aftica ond Middle East" iso lse bhecase                    g
aclo-caltaeal afttnittma).  In the ncf.Tsnsc  geoup data the sert.;.  a*  popalaitet  weighted atithmetic m-ens for each indlcat-r and sheen only ashan at
lenat hbli of the caoulria  In a yreup he. dat tee that indIeatne.  fle.t  ceseraca at cof et e             -s among she  fitcacora depends 00 the eavil.hlity ot
deta and ia not anifort, cautlon east ha sasesled 1n relatins  aoaaa  of onae Indicaoe to aoother.  Ehaa acerae. ae only aaetai Is companig tin salt
of aoe indi.ato- at a . sea amoo. the onta y and refenence  Sloape.
L4iD ARnA Ictoasasd sqa. r=)acanion see Phosiohso - Popadatiln davides by natee at praoticing phy-
Total - Total surface ate - omprising lead area and inland watere.                        aicias qalifiad teen a medical seeol at aniveeatty level.
Agricultural - Estimate at agrioultural area need t-patrarlly or peerianently           PoPulatlon per P faealo  Person - Popalatiot dAided hp nby   bet af praeticisg
for crops, pattres   tarket and kitchen gardens or to lie fallen; 1977 data,             ale and female graduats neree,  practioal nuraes, and asatst-   masea
k    ~ ~ ~ ~ Pnlto   e  tsia   e      oa.sba,adaa      aaaim(ntTl,
SF PER CAPITA (TSI) - GNP per oarita estimates at cAurent =arket  prices  cal-              arbatn.      erata)  ivided by thir reapeetise nambee at h.epital beds
culated  by sa .e.o.ver-ion aetbod as Whad Baok Asia- (1977-79 basis); 196,               available i  publin end peisate generel and speoiliteed honpital and re-
1970, ad 17P data                                                                        habilitatios  centers.  HMpitals are establisbhents peemasestly  tfftd
by at leant... physician. Entablishmneta providisg pnine ipally esetadie1
ENERGY CONSUnPTlON PER CAPITA - Aonnul c.n. u=ption of commercial eneegy (coal              ce  ar la_   ne phnluded.   Ro-I hospitsle., henever,  seinlde health mad edinal
and lignote, petrolla, nataral gas and hydra-, maclese and geothermal eleo-               testert  oat pem-anestly staffed by a physicisn (bat by a medieal asa.etast,
trinity) in kilograms at coal eqainslesi per eapita; 1060, 197O, and 1978                 narse, midwife. etc.) which offer in-patient aoceemiadatien and previde
dams,                                                                                     l=iited -ange of medical fanilitiee.  Per etatistinal pnepneaa  brh hn spti-
tels laclods WHO.D pnt,cipal genalsd arctlined beapise.Ia, ad r-rs
POPh'LATION AND1 VITAL. STATISTICS                                                          hoepitalis.. lss  on roralheiaea md ea,  and taseity osmts.
Total Papalatios, Mid-Year (millions) - A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978                dmisite pet Hoepital led-Total eh   of  ndiei.a  ti  a  dtc   h
data.  Pl"R( I1    ~   "               R.i   fr-t    t1PP ti.                            foam hospitals divided by the tmber of beds.
Ueban Popalacisa ineroest of total) - Rttia at urhan to satal popslatios;
differest definitions of sEhas areas may aftens nomparahility of data               HOUSING
among countries; 1980, 1970, and 1978 dana.                                           Average Sins of hoseShold (persons per hoae.hold) - total, uranh.  and tweal-
Populatio- in year i000 - C-rrent paptlation pr)Jsctians are bhaed an 1980              end tuseho min mals   A         P harder or ledger maY or mday not be included et
tonal population by age and sea Rnd themi  metality and f-rtility ratean. the hashold fe              o r tn tistioa  eparp...
PFeoectIoe yarameteos tar mortality rates co=prise of tbnee levels attai-           Ave-age namber of persos per noon - total, urban, snd trral - Abea.ge eam-
cog life espectanIy at birth incrsasing with country'e pen capita intone              ber of pess.na pen roes. 1, ali -ban, and norsi  nccupied en-vestins1
level  and female life expectancy stabhilzing at 77.    p eas.  Tbe paea-             d-ellings  respectively.  rellings eoclude nn-penreat stretu-r and
meters far feetility Mate ales have three lesela asesmist decline in                  usoccupied part.
fertility acconding to in.em.  level asd paat family planning performanel           Anetes tP El ectnici.  (penen s  of dwelings) - tatal, anhas, and rara1 -
lath hanstry in thne  assigned  ene of these site casbisetions  of nartality          C nneotiosa  dvellinfs with electriotty in lving qareers a. peetntage
and fertility treade fr pr"I  eotio= prpoe.s.                                         of total, -rban, and raral d_elligs respectively.
Stotlanany p.pulation - In a snationany popalation there it no groith ninoe
the birth rate is equal to the death rate, aed alas  the age strute r-    EDUCATION
alns- onatan.  This is sehieved only aftee fe-tility rstes denline te             EAdI sted Enrollment Rati
the onplrep nt level of -citt etr-e-do-tine ate, ahbn .aah generat tie                Primanveobool   totaL  male and feale - G-ss total,  es  sad fea-
of weme enplatee       lft.el . nncly.  The tetaiinry poplaistis  sin  wa            nP nimn f all agesatth  primary level a. pe-rteattee  of reePeotine
estimated an the basis of the prejeoted tbanaeterietioa of the popalation               p.imaoy school-age papulstions;  nvrally incltdea ohildren aged 6-il
D the yean Zl,00   and the rate at deeline af fertility  rate to replaoe-               years bat ad)ssted toe different leygthe of primary eduanion; ten
neot level.oarenecsosreedatanoolnemyeae1tpeen
Sear stalionany population Is reaebed - The year then stationary population               snotame pvit  a.rebelow or above the off iial schno  age
sita  has heen reached.                                                               Seondary sebool - natal, male and female - Cemputed as sabve; se- eadary
Per s. kh. - fid-yae-  populetion pee square kil-meter (100 heotsres) of                  pdvtido gequierl,  tt o ianl  forteaYcher  traiPning inter-titta  aor papic
total ares.                                                                             ususily of 12 to 17 years of agse;corespondenne COurses are geser-1ly
Per s. len. arinaitara1 land - Campated ae shav  foe egnialtana1 land                     eac~lade~d.
only.                                                                                 locational enrollment (rtetof  .e..d.y  - Enestiana1 isatitatitma
Pepalation Agm Straeture (perteent  - Childre  (0-14 yearr), vrkieg-age (1S-             iVolade -ebnto7l. idtdassial, yr other plrgr-na whieh ope-ate iadapem-
64 yers), and retired (65 years and even) aa percentages of mid-year papa-                dently an an departments of secondary in-titntl,ns
lation; 1960, 1970, sd 1978 data.                                                       Psal-aeaohme ratio -                   _rtare, and secondary - Total enadeets eanoiled in
P Isa     Irontisat fer    e       tetal - tAsata  erenth ratee at ss.fl sid-             plriary yed se.nnd-ny levels divided by onbhers of tea.ehes in the
year pepaltine foe 1010-0, 1060-1;7, e'nd 1971~-7.                                   _onrepnd in  levl.
PopuiatosionGryth REts (percent) - urban - Da-..I grovth rates of aebso popu-             Ad.lt literary eats (rerc    - Literate sdults (able to read and -tite)
lations for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                                as a perentage of totai adalt population aged 15 years and aver
Ceode Ninth Rate (ps  thos.a.d.    - Anal live births per thousand of eid-year
poplanltin; 1960, 1970, and 1978 daa.                                               rONSUMPITION
Crade Dlati late le-e thandaAn) - A.al death, per thoa-and of mid-year                  Passeng9r Cars (per tionhasdPpopal:att)   Padssenger oars nomPrics   ttehd
popsiation; 1060, 1970, and 1978 dana.                                                  oars tenting less than eight Per...t;  -Iaoldn  ambalenee, h-arme  and
Irate Oenoadacia  Rste - Average nu=ber of daaghteraaw  -  niJll beer in                  military orbiclea
her normal repeodantive period if she espenienoem  presenr age-spe-ifiO fe-
tility  eaten; asally five-yea-  averages ending is 1960  1970, and 1977              bRo  yeasi  tn    _r  poblit   Ipr tbosand of popu;ationf  acLade   ash-
family Plaooto - Acceotons, dAmnoa (gibhsa tan   -ais iana=ly somer  faiegptore=          ceased reoeinera cv ocanteses and in ynnar when negleteattas of radio *e-
EasIly Piatring - Tnra  (penceon of married women) - Perneneage of married                voan nt ectshie  It rosiecning.
aonen of child- beariog age (115-4  yearsi vbo ama birth-constrol dmnir   o           n neovetris (yoiset Ihoctadensnlein-B            eeo      faneanst
all martind nones he tame age groap.ev        t                                         gesertL pablic par thoasIod ypaa stlo; e- clfdea ap liceased IS reetivers
FOOD AbO bUTRITION               inncounie_ end in ynears  hen registeattot of Tv sets  as in effe.et
lades oi Pond Feoduction per Capita (199o-71lDOi) - Iaden  at per l apitaasosai           tsa    Ct '      atioa  intrestneapapnr ,defined a  a periedieal pab-
production at aLl food commodities.  Prodctin en -ludee sand and feed and                          a      d p      iy 
is on calendar year basis.  Coseeoditilee namer peamairy gande (e.g. easseesa           ltoihr   devo"tedi  appe=arsl en leastin f enera tI es s aweeb.    nidr
instead of sugar which are edible and contaisns nuients (e g  coffee and              C             att        ed o Cpit    r Ye r- ed    o
tea ars etcluded)  .Aggegate produetion of each noutry is based 0n                     tikets sold dtnincth  ear            a       dmissione sa  d      ..ve-it  thne.as
natiaonl average producer price weights; 1061-61, 1071, and 1078 data.                  ad nbtie neits.
Per cacite sapply af caloriea (peecens of renairements) - Computed feats    o  
energy eqatvalent ot net fond suppliles assilable is routaty per ra pita          LAhPii
pen day.  Available sapplies comprise dsmeestin production, importe less            ToAlO laorC   hoc   nbnads) -Eroolal a=ic           n  peees t3Ctdi
exports, and cbanges is stack,  let mupplies erclade animal feed, seeds,              armed faor cs and aepoy nad ba  esonladin ghondeenoes, stadents, ens.
quanatidies used tn food proceseing, sad loseses in distribotion.  Reqaire-           Inflitrcss in oar los  ontisre  nocmpral;lh,17ad
ments ante estimated by PAOE bseed em phystalogleal needs for enoeess acti-           107  data.sna   u
octy and health cansideriag environeent31 tempersesre, body weights, age            yamaLe Soerrenti - Female labor force as percentage of total laboe terse.
and too distribution at papaletias, and alloning 10 pencent for waste at            hAninaltare (percenti - Labor forte is farming, forestry, banning and
noasehold level; 1061-61, 1070, and 1077 data.                                        falin       _ as percentage of total labor form; 1060, 1970 and 178 data
Per cenits sappdi of protetn Canaa  ner day) - Prorsets content of pen capits         Ipdustrv (perrenti - Labor foree in mining, co       Shn-rutiom   masafantaring
net sapply of toad pen day   Net iepplp at teed is defined as saeve,  0e-             and slecteicity, aster  aid gas as pet rnsg_e of  total labor terra; 1060
quire=ents far  all conntriea established by USIA provide for mini0sd
allowaern  of 60 grams at tonal proteia pen day and 20 crasat animal and            Pantrtiailas sate (nerrest) - total, mal, and tet ple - .artifipatta Ioa
p,oie protein ol  vtich 10 grR=a shoald he animal protein.  These stand-              activity rates sre  ompsned ma total, mal  and female labor toene as
ards are loen ihas ibosen at 7b grama of total poeint and 71 grams of                 P                                   Es f na nd.. d en the   -
animal protsin as as average tar the yorld, propoeed by PA0 in she Thied              percent   e f total o       e    fele          i  .t t g                t
I'I p  d.eet p~~~~~~~~ie. .196,i170,  nd  075dat1    Iet5  ee9l7spaeiciati197tseslssses
korld Food Surney; 19hi-65l, 1070 and 1077 data,                                      age-sea serartane of the papalatiose and longar time-trend. sA fw iecti-
P5erolna protein  fnroly from aiml and raisel-bPrtein eapply of food de-                me  aE
rlvmd tOnc  animal. and pslses in graEs per day; 1061-6), 1071 and 1977 data. E roaicD leedny Railon - oRatio of paaio  sdrlsa6nd   ave
Chtld (ages i-o) Mortality RaIn (pr   oasad) - Annal das  per thoas-nd i                Tn to t    r ttl e hr fa y        re.-   I t .                   65 ad
age grony i-d yha.g to chiidren in itis age gesap; tar moat dsvelopin  oaI-t
onies data derived fmom life tables; 1060, 1070 end 1077 dta.                       INCOME DlEtSTIeTl19
hEALTds                                                                                    Peyrentage atfd ivetp Income (both is cast and hind) - Received by nishet
Life tosertdncy at Birth (ypdea) - Average nambee ot years  ft life ramaining              5 perceIt, nirhest 70 percett  poorest -1 peretet, and pooreet 0 pernent
at birth; 1960  1970 and 1978 date.                                                     o   o7b
Ieao  hfraiv  aebn  isa     - Asnual deaths of tafamna cedee one year    r  ni  onTiOf
of age per thassand line birthas                                                      tssia sf d AbRolase Poverty Inests Level fus$ rem casits) -   19me end d arl l-
hcrens to Saf e Water (merest at ratsNlatiP-) - total, P  r- a, and rural - lb.            Ahalate peverty inrome lapel Is that incoma level heist vhth a sting
Sateber of people (total, uraehe, ed rural) nieh emasasable accese to safe              nutritinnally adeqanta diet pins essential non-food reqairemainta is eat
eater supply  finfladea treated a .rf,ea mster. or a dtreased bat aen.R.amieated         at tara  olI.
water sari as that foam protered trbheles, bpriU ge, and cent iry wells) md a                   blate  vP       t  Imf  ove1 (0)        asite  -    fa   1
peerentages z       otbeir respective papalatins.  Es as arban ares a publtc            isral  relative  oveety tacom level is ass-third df average pser t pita
fonatsone ir temdpoat lanated sat mane than 200 metent tram  a beass map be             penama  iscee of the reasnty.  Vrbah level is derived fnam the nuamE
onoldered as being withhin reaanable hlcees of that beat.   Ino T ral.  ea               levelP. oath ad   oatne tfa  Ig    oto oi             arhaserene.
reasonable arrest hsald th.ply that the hoafeeite or membei s ot the hR ssho;d ff              viamated Ppatlost sntf   hbo ir Pastv   income L l fres
do vno  have t  spend a disproportionate pant of the day in fetching the                 and ro       Percent of popaletion  (nbaspand meal) sev  see taanl.. p-sn.
broema to Bxcrsna liaPiesi (serresqt atf oemaulanias-iatai3  arbam  and
rural - Camber of penple  metal, unhrn and raraf) servsd hy ecriesa
disposa1 em parcestagas at their reepantive popalatinme.  fcrneta die-                                                Ecno=aic and serial sate livisiss
posal map include the collacsion  sad disposal, with an nitbat treatmene,                                        Ecopenia facplyata aed Projeetd na depsrtmmt
of huan sxcrateta sed vaste-naser by eaten-barns aspeene or theause afOtoet18
pit enivies and sistlan ioasmiitiansa



- 24 -
SYRIA- Economic Indicators                                      ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 8.4 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 1070 (1979)
Amount                                               Annual Growth Rates                                  a/
(million US$ at                Actual (at 1975 Prices)                         Proiected  (at 1979 prices)
Indicator                        at current prices)
1979 a/                 1976   1977   1978   1979 a/                1980   1981    1982   1983   1984   1985
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product                  9151                  8.1    -2.5    8.7      3.3                 7.1    4.9      5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Agriculture                          1668                17.6   -14.9  19.2   -9.9                   15.0      3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0
Industry                            2543                 16.0    -4.0    6.0      2.7                 6.0     8.0     8.0     8.0     8.0     8.0
Services                            4940                  1.7       2.7   6.8     8.0                 4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Consumption                             8212                  1.2     1.3   10.2   12.5                   9.6     4.0     6.4     5.3     5.2     5.2
Gross Investment                        2579                 28.5     1.1   -0.8   -8.8                   0.1     4.3     3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0
Export of Goods &NFS b/                 1811                   .6   -2.3   -2.1   -7.3                     -      1.5     7.2     1.2     2.0     2.0
Import of Goods &NFS b/                 3450                  2.1   11.9   -3.0       8.9                 2.0     1.0     8.3     2.4     2.5     2.6
Prices
GDP Deflator                                                111.3  124.9  137.8  146.3
Exchange Rate                                                3.89    3.92    3.92    3.92
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)   Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                   (at constant prices)
1975      1980 c/  1985                    1975-80 c/ 1980-85
Gross Domestic Product         100.0    100.0    100.0                        4.9          5.0
Agriculture               17.9       19.6      17.8                     4.3          3.0
Industry                  24.8      27.6       31.8                     5.3          8.0
Services                  57.3      52.8       50.4                     4.8          4.0
Consumption                     83.9      91.8       90.2                     6.6          5.3
Gross Investment                28.6      26.3       24.0                     3.4          3.2
Export of Goods & NFS           21.3      20.7       20.6                    -2.2          2.9
Import of Goods & NFS           33.8      38.8       34.8                     4.3          3.5
As Z GDP
Public Finance                           1975            1977          1979
Current Revenues                         27.5            22.2          25.1
Current Expenditures                     24.9            24.3          25.7
Deficit                                  19.2            25.4          17.5
Capital Expenditures                     21.7            23.2          16.9
Foreign Financing                        11.2            19.7          19.2
Other Indicators                                        1975-80            1980-85
GNP Growth Rate (Z)                                     4.7              4.7
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                          1.4              1.4
Energy Consumption Growth rate (Z)                      7.0              5.2
ICOR                                                    6.8              5.1
Marginal Savings Rate                                 -11.6             -0.3
(without grants)                                  -20.5               4.0
Import Elasticity                                       1.0              0.7
a/ - provisional                                                                      February 27, 1981
- differ from balance of payments data due to coverage,                            EMENA CP II-C
timing and definitions.
c/ - 1980 figures are estimates



- 25 -
Population:  8.4 million (mid-1979)                                                                                                                Annex I
GNP per capita:  US$ 1070 (1979)                                                                                                                   Page 5 of 6
SYRIA- External Trade
a/
Indicator                                      Amount                                     Actual                                                  Pro.ected
(million US$ at current prices)                 1976     1977     1978     1979 a/               1980       1981     1982     1983      3984
1979 a/                             Annual Growth Rate (1)  b/                            Annual Growth Rates (11
External Trade                                                                     (at constant 1970 prices)                              (at Constant 1979 prices)
Merchandise Exports                             1649                               3.9      1.5    -2.9      - .5                   -.8        -.6      7.6      -.1         .8
Petroleum                                    1188                             24.2    -7.3      -9.4    -1.4                    -3.9      -5.4      5.7    -6.7        -7.2
Other Primary                                 338                             -5.5      5.5       6.8       -  c/                4.4       4.6      2.3       7.7       5.3
Manufacturers                                 123                             38.4    11.4   -11.9          .5                  15.0      25.0    25.0    25.0         25.0
Merchandise Imports                             3398                               9.8    19.2      12.8    -5.7                    2.0         .5      8.9      2.4        2.5
Food                                          413                             -4       19.8       9.5      2.1                   4.3       3.0      5.4       4.3       4.2
Petroleum                                     823                             13.2    16.5        7.5    12                      4.8        -      25.0        -         -  c/
Machinery 6 Equipment                         760                              3.6    12.3    37.7   -14.7                        -         -         -        -         -
Other                                        1402                             14.8     22.9       3.5    -5.6                    5.4         .2     5.0       4.9       4.9
Prices                                                                             Price Index (1970- 100)                                 Price Index (1979- 10G)
Export Price Index                                                            361      392       417      548                   127       140      156      171        186
Import Price Index                                                            330      304      326       405                   117       125      133      145        157
Terms of Trade Index                                                          109      129       128      135                   109       112      117       118       118
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)               Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                          (at constant prices)
d/                                  Al
1975              1980             1985             1975-80              1980-85
Exports                                         100                100              100                 .3                  1.9
Petroleum                                     70                72               56               -4.5                 -4.7
Other Primary                                 22                20                14               2.9                   4.9
Manufacturers                                  8                 8                20               8.3                  25.0
Imports                                         100               100               100               4.6                   3.6
Food                                          18                12                13               8.9                   4.3
Petroleum                                      7                28               28               10.2                   5.2
Machinery & Equipment                         29                21                18              -3.5                    -
Others                                        46                39                41               7.3                   4.2
Share of Trade with             Share of Trade with               Share of Trade with                      Share of Trade with
Direction of Trade   Industrial Countries (Z)    Developinx Countries(%)  Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)                      Centrally Planned Econom.es(%)
1975             1979           1975             1979             1975              1979                   1975             1979
Exports                 54               71             17                 6                6                7                     23               16
Imports                 56               50             24               17                 4               16                     16               17
a/ - provisional
b/ - Due to deficiencies in trade data, reflecting differences in timing and valuation, the growth rates are calculated as two year
moving averages
c/ - growth close to zero
- 1980 figures are estimates
February 27, 1981
EMENA CP Il-C



- 26 -
Population:  8.4 million (mid-1979)                                                                                                    Annex I
GNP per capita:  US 1070 (1979)                                                                                                        Page 6 of 6
SYRIA- Balance of Payments, External Capital and Debt
(million US$ at current price)
a/
Indicator                                                             Actoal                                                                 Projected
1975       1976      1977      1978      1979 a/                     1980      1981      1982       1983      1984     1985
Balance of Payments
Exports of Goods and Services                   1356        1442      1528      1553       2209                       2722      3022      3568       3946      4364     4800
of which: Merchandise                         930        1070      1071      1062      1649                        2084      2281      2726      2987      3279     3577
Imports of Goods and Services                   1943        2619      2858      2765      3859                        4580      4951      5733      6431       7194    8070
of which: Merchandise                        1540       2282       2610      2402      3398                        4060      4353      5046      5630      6254    6912
Net Transfers                                     664        412      1162        801      1651                       1300      1300      1300       1300       700      70C
Current Account Balance                            77       -765      -168      -411          1                       -558      -629      -865     -1185    -2130   -2570
Direct Private Investment                          19         73        87         29        10                         10        10         10        10        10       25
MLT Loans (net)                                   166        297       465        392       309                        549       681       985       1292      2248    2691
Disbursement                                  208         395       542       617       571                         848      1027      1349      1728      2697     3225
Amortization                                   42          98        77       225       262                         299       346       364       436       449       534
Other Capital -                                   -26        -15      -192      -113       -119                         -         -          -         -         -        -
Change in Reserves b/                            -236        410      -192        103      -201                         -1       -62      -130       -117      -128    -146
International Reserves                            813        399       618       565       1007
of which gold c/                              111         106       134       183       426
Reserves as Months of Imports b/                  4.5        1.5       2.1        1.8       1.9
1975          1976            1977            1978            1979
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursenents of MLT Loans   271.8              410.7           556.3           621.3           570.7
Concessional                            187.8         305.0           404.0           445.6           298.5
Multi-lateral                        71.9          159.7           213.5           189.0           102.7
Bilateral                           114.6          135.0           181.4           247.6           194.1
IDA-                                  1.3           10.3             9.1             9.0             1.7
No--Concessional                         84.0         105.7           152.3           175.7           272.2
Private                              63.9           45.8            67.5            23.1            31.2
Official Export Credits              16.5           36.9            39.1           118.8           182.4
IBRD                                  3.6           23.0            45.7            32.1            56.6
Other Mslts-lateral                   -              -               -               1.7             2.0
External Debt
Debt Outntandieg & Disborsed            677.7        1003.0          1538.5          1969.3          2283.2
Official                           526.0          853.8         1352.1           1791.6         2118.1
IBRD                             3.6          26.6            72.3           102.9           158.0
IDA                              9.4          21.1            30.0            38.9            40.5
Others                         513.0         806.1          1249.8          L649.8          1919.6
Private                             151.7          149.2           186.4          177.7           165.1
Undisbursed Debt                      1364.9         2126.5          2169.3          1996.8          1958.6
Debt Service
Total Debt Service Paym.ent             104.4         106.5           106.6           294.8           350.2
Interest                             17.2           22.0            26.7            68.4            86.3
Payment as Z of Exports                   7.7            7.4             7.0           19.0            15.8
Average Interest Rate (New Loans)%    3.3                4.0            4.4             4.4             3.7
Average Maturity (New Loans)Years   16.3                18.3            16.1           20.3            19.2
As Z of Debt Outstanding at
Debt Structure                                        End af Must Resent Year 11979)
Maturity Stractxre of Debt Oustanding (0)
Amortization Due Within 5 Years                                  40.0
Amortization Due Within 10 Years                                66.4
Interest Structure of Debt Outstanding (Z)
Interest Due Within First Year                                   4.1
a/ - Provisional                                                                                      February 27, 1981
b/ - from IMP, International Financial Statistics, using                                              EM4ENA CP 11-C
total rese rvex with national valuatios of gold.
c/ - valued at the end of period London Market Price



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
A. Statement of Bank loans and IDA Credits
(As of December 31, 1980)
--------- US$Million -------
Number      Year           Borrower                  Purpose        Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and two credits fully disbursed                             25.0  18.5
298         1972      Syrian Arab Republic       Highway                   13.8        5.7
401         1973               "                 Water Supply              15.0        0.4
975         1974                "                Irrigation         63.0             37.3
986         1975      Etablissement Public
d'Electricite             Electricity         8.6              0.3
1144         1975               "                 Electricity        72.0              11.3
1241         1976      Syrian Arab Republic       Water Supply       35.0               7.5
1261         1976      Etablissement Public       Telecommuni-
des Telecommunications    cations             28.0             12.7
1311         1976      Syrian Arab Republic       Livestock           5.0              2.6
1312T        1976               "                 Livestock          12.5              6.4
1458         1977               "                 Water Supply       50.0              17.7
1480         1977               "                 Education          20.0              10.6
1531         1978      Etablissement Public
d'Electricite              Electricity        40.0             40.0
1546         1978      Syrian Arab Republic       Highways           58.0             50.9
1631 1/      1978                "                Agroindustry       21.0                -
1682         1979                "                Drainage           30.0             29.3
TOTAL                                        468.1  47.3      232.7
of which has been repaid                      5.4    .8
Total now outstanding                        462.7  46.5
Amount sold                                    1.1   0
of which has been repaid                      1.1   0
Total now held by Bank and IDA 2/            462.7  46.5
Total undisbursed                            226.6   6.1    232.7
B. Statements of IFC Investments: None
1/ Not yet effective
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments



- 28 -                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit 298 - Second Highway Project; US$13.8 million Credit of April 17,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: February 2, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Project implementation started in 1975 after an initial delay due
to the unfavorable political situation in the region. In July 1975, after
several contracts had been awarded, the Government decided to upgrade the
project roads to four-lane standards which economic studies indicated to be
economically justified. The Association agreed to these changes after
reviewing final cost estimates. Government has awarded the additional
works on the Homs-Tartous road to a public company and will finance this
component from its own resources. It has awarded the additional works on
the Damascus-Lebanese border road as an extension to the contract of the
contractors carrying out the works. Agreement for financing the construc-
tion of the Damascus-Jordanian border road has been reached between the
Government and USAID. This section has, therefore, been deleted from the
project. Upon the Government's request to reallocate IDA funds for the
construction of the Damascus-Lebanese border road and Tall Kalakh section
of Homs Tartous road to four-lane standards, an amendment to the Credit
Agreement was prepared and approved by the Executive Directors on March 23,
1978. The rest of the works are to be financed by the Saudi and Kuwait
Funds. A first two-lane 18 km section of the project road was opened to
traffic in November 1979, while pavement works on the other two lanes
between Mezze and Dimas are 70% complete. About 5% of the works between
Dimas and Zabadani have been carried out according to a revised design over
the first two kilometers; completion of the entire section is expected by
June 1981. A network development study for the Northeast, which was
included in the amended project description, has begun on schedule.
Credit 401 - Damascus Water Supply Project; US$15 million Credit of June 22,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: Februry 20, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Initial delays in project implementation of about two years were
caused by the unfavorable political situation in the region. A revision of
the project description was required as a result of considerable cost
overruns and was approved by the Executive Directors on May 28, 1975. This
permitted work to proceed on an urgent phase of distribution. Construction
work on the project distribution network was completed in July 1978. Sewer-
age master plans and pollution control studies for Damascus, Homs and Hama
have been completed by consultants. Organizational improvements are
underway within the Damascus Water Authority (EPEF) and the modernization of
the accounting, statistics and billing system are expected to be completed
by end-June 1981. Disbursements are being made only on commitments prior to
December 31, 1980.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Credit 469/Loan 975 - Balikh Irrigation Prolect: US$10 million Credit and
US$63 million Loan of April 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of the development of irrigation in an area
of 41,000 ha net in the Balikh River Basin through construction of 145 km of
main supply canal, an irrigation and drainage system, pumping facilities,
roads, water supply, power transmission and community buildings, bilharzia
and malaria control, procurement of equipment and consultants' services.
The project has experienced major technical, financial and managerial problems.
Revised cost estimates are about four times that of appraisal;
even if the project area is reduced to 21,000 ha, the total project cost
would be about $380 million with a foreign cost of about $145 million.
The cost overrun is due mainly to the inflation (the project was appraised
before the October 1973 Middle East War) and to the increase in quantities
as a result of the presence of gypsum, a problem whose full implications
were not realized at appraisal. The $55 million of loan funds committed to
date were sufficient to develop only 10,000 ha. The Government is now
considering rephasing the project, and has requested that the uncommitted
portion of the Bank's loan be used to finance a reduced project (21,000
ha of the original total 41,000 ha).  The Government has agreed to carry out
a re-evaluation of the project to provide updated costs and benefit estimates
and determine the viability of the reduced project.
Considerable delays have occurred in the implementation of the
project due to inadequate planning and management. The irrigation works on
the 10,000 ha (Bir-el-Hashim area) are almost completed. The work on the
Lower Main Canal has been intensified; excavation work has been completed
while filling has been 60% completed. The civil works and installa-
tion of pumps in the five pumping stations have been completed. The rehabili-
tation of the Upper Salhabiya Canal (necessary because of the magnitude of
the gypsum problem), essential for the irrigation of the first 10,000 ha in
Bir-el-Hashim has just started. No irrigation in this almost completed area
is possible before the canal becomes operable. A settlement plan for the
10,000 ha almost completed and the next 21,000 ha, has been prepared.
According to the plan, some 1,230 new settlers will be moved in the area
from other regions of the country; the land will be distributed to settlers
who will be organized in cooperatives. The implementation of the plan has
started with the construction of new houses, infrastructure and social
services.
Loan 986 - Mehardeh Power Project; US$25 million Loan of May 23, 1974 and
Supplementary Loan of US$8.6 million of June 4, 1975; Dates of Effectiveness:
January 30, 1975 and January 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of the first 150-MW unit of a new steam-
electric power station at Mehardeh; eight 230-kV substations, consultant



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
services and training. The project is co-financed by a US$33 million loan
from Kuwait Fund, including a second portion of US$15 million to cover the
considerable cost overruns. Although main contracts were awarded about
five months late and a further delay of about two months was caused due to
a temporary lack of cement and transportation difficulties for major
equipment, physical progress is satisfactory and the plant is in operation.
Loan 1144 - Second Mehardeh Power Project; US$72 miliion Loan of July 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: January 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project comprises a second 150-MW steam generating unit
at Mehardeh, construction of six and extension of two 230-kV substations, a
new office building for the Public Electricity Establishment (PEE), organi-
zation and accounting studies and training. Construction of the power
plant was completed in December 1979, construction of the substations is
progressing satisfactorily and the final delay is expected to be minimal.
Construction of the new head office building has been delayed by about one
year because the Government was reviewing its size and phasing but is now
expected to start in April 1981. Although training programs and the organi-
zational study of PEE are in progress, the training component is behind
schedule and institutional progress continues to be slow due to lack of
experienced personnel and difficulties in recruiting and training intermediate
accounting and financial staff.
Loan 1241 - Second Damascus Water Supply Project; US$35 million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: January 31, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project, which is co-financed by the Arab Fund and USAID,
provides for the supply components of Damascus' water system and for
training. Construction of tunnel and associated reservoirs was completed
in April 1980 and operation began in June 1980. Some minor related works,
also financed by the loan, are scheduled for completion by mid-1981.
Associated works (reservoirs) financed by the Arab Fund are under construc-
tion, but are a year behind schedule   A close coordination of the works
financed by the various donors under this project and of the works financed
under the first project will be required to permit the timely linkup of the
various components of the supply and distribution system and to minimize
expected delays in implementation of the project components financed by
other donors.
Loan 1261 - Telecommunications Project, US$28 million Loan of June 9, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project originally consisted of the priority works of the
State Telecommunications Enterprise (STE) 1976-78 investment program
including the installation of telephone connections, trunk exchanges and
teleprinters; expansion of long distance and international facilities; and



- 31 -                          ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
a training center. Because of late deliveries and delays in installation
of equipment and civil works, there is an expected delay of about 24 months
on project works. STE has taken steps to expedite action and futher
execution of the project is expected to proceed satisfactorily. With major
tariff increases effected in early 1981, STE's financial position has
substantially improved and should enable it to undertake its 1981-85 invest-
ment program on a sound financial footing.
Loans 1311/1312T - First Livestock Development Project; US$5 million Loan and
US$12.5 million Third Window Loan of July 22, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project aims at increasing and stabilizing sheep production
and the incomes of nomadic flockowners and sheep fatteners through stabili-
zation of feed availability and improvement of veterinary services. Financing
is provided for the purchase of animal feed needs of sheep cooperatives,
strengthening of national animal health services, and technical assistance.
After initial delays in recruiting consultants, project implementation got
underway in April 1978. Replenishment by the Government of the National
Feed Revolving Fund is under way. Although there was an initial delay of
two years, project implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1458 - Aleppo Water Supply Project; US$50 million Loan of June 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of constructing a 75 km transmission line and
associated pumping facilities from Lake Assad to Aleppo, treatment plant
expansion and extension and improvements to the existing trunk distribution
system. Engineering services for improvements of the sewer systems in
Aleppo and Latakia and technical assistance to the State Planning Office and
public construction enterprises are also included in the project. The
contract for the treatment plant equipment was awarded in August 1980. Pipe
manufacturing is well underway. Construction of the pipeline has begun;
tunnels have been excavated and are presently being finished. Engineets and
mechanics are being sent to equipment manufacturers to become familiar with
proper operating and maintenance procedures. Training for treatment plant
operators is foreseen to start in July 1981. Works are about six months
behind schedule and are expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.
Loan 1480 - First Education Project; US$20 million Loan of September 14, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: February 9, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides for the construction, furnishing and equipping
of five primary teacher training colleges, an intermediate teacher training
institute, three intermediate technical institutes and two vocational
training complexes. The project also includes about 6 man-years of expert
services for the preparation of curricula for the technical institutes, the
establishment of suitable mechanism for coordinating vocational training
and technical education, the development of craft programs and the provision
of 33 man-years of fellowships abroad. Project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 32 -                            ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Loan 1531 - Regional Electrification Project; US$40 million Loan of May 3,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is the first stage of a ten-year National Rural
Electrification Program aimed at providing electricity service to all
villages with a population of at least 100 by 1987. The project would
provide electricity service to 900,000 inhabitants in 11 out of 14 provinces
in Syria, including about 150,000 rural households for whom adequate supply
of electricity would be made available for the first time. The project
would also serve health care, education and communication centers as well
as infrastructure services such as water supply and industries as part of
the Government's drive to increase agro-industrial activity and to improve
the quality of life in rural Syria. The effectiveness of the loan was
delayed by almost two years by lack of action on power tariffs, but the
progress is now satisfactory. The Project Unit has been established and
staffed and award of contracts is scheduled for May 1981.
Loan 1546 - Third Highway Project; US$58 million of May 3, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: November 8, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,1982.
The project supports the Government's objectives for the develop-
ment of the highway network in line with the current investment program.
It would help stimulate the development of agriculture and industry in the
the fertile and rapidly developing but thinly populated Northeastern region
in Syria and aims at further strengthening the Government's long-term
planning capabilities in the sector. Works have started on all contracts
awarded for pavement strengthening of the Damascus-Aleppo highway and are
expected to be completed by end 1981. Contracts for the Homs Bypass and
the Qantary-Tall Tamir road have been awarded and works are underway with
some delay.
Ln. 1631-SYR: Oilseed Processing Project; US$21 Million Loan of December 13,
1978; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
The project aims at rationalizing and expanding the state-owned
oilseed processing industry by improving technical efficiency of existing
plants and increasing total processing capacity. The project includes
construction of a factory at Deir-ez-Zor to process 50,000 tons of cotton-
seed per annum, the modernization of two factories in Aleppo, technical
assistance and training. The Syrian Industrial Company for Vegetable Oils,
the executing agency, has acquired the new sites and is now in the process
of hiring consultants to assist in project implementation, which is a
condition of effectiveness of the loan. The effectiveness of the loan has
been delayed by almost two years due to two reviews (of the sub-sector and
the project) initiated by the Government and, thereafter, by the cumbersome
procedures required in the selection and appointment of consultants.



33 -                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. 1682-SYR: Lower Euphrates Drainage Project; US$30.0 Million Loan of May 4,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 11, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The project would arrest the spread of salinity and improve
agricultural production on about 75,000 ha of land to be irrigated or
previously irrigated on both banks of the Lower Euphrates River in North
eastern Syria. The project is about one year behind schedule but the
pace of implementation is improving. Work under the well drilling contract
is expected to begin soon. Bids for the contract for electrical transmission
lines are under review. Consultants' work on hydrological and soil investi-
gations is proceeding on schedule.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by government to
prepare project:                          9 months (March - December 1979)
(b)  Agencies that prepared the project:    Ministry of Education (MOE);
Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE);
Ministry of Health (MOH);
Ministry of Public Works (MOPW).
(c)  Initial discussion with the Bank:         February 1979
(d) Bank project preparation assistance
mission:                                  June/July 1979
(e)  Appraisal mission:                        January/February 1980
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:    February 27, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:            September 30, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Design development drawings, including detailed laboratory and
workshop equipment and furniture layouts would be acceptable to
the Bank (para 53); and
2.        Arrangements for construction would proceed in accordance with an
agreed implementation schedule, under which civil works contracts for
the respective project institution would have been awarded prior to
commencement of bidding for furniture and equipment for that insti-
tution (para 53).



TU.KEY  2   < _ ,,                  /    37 0 0                          3irDO                          39 30                           40S                            41 00                            4tT  w R  K       
gR                                 I/,R E U       jb I R
Wa5~~R*A.R.R.RRNDfA.P,O
*ms~,   -      A i    
S,F
WAR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    AI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
o   OCATIRNA. TRAININ- CETE-
NT-RDRITE DA-RIC-L AL INSTITU-ES
A      EAT rN I AN IST TU--S
*  EROCATION RATERIALS DE---PE  A-D .RODUCTION CENTER
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j                                                                                                                    RAVED ROARS
\  7 \   t X                            \           .7                                                                            __!
MED/tE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7RgAILR                                                                                                                                     A DS ).> 
..b                                                                                                                               @     SAT ..AL A-ITAL
A--  A               31-.0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           R      D      R      sO0                             TON
I LEBANONX    X   W,,  )   >        /                                                                 SAWLNRSO
'~ ~ ~                          OSRA 3                                                                                                                                                   AIRPOR/TS
I                                                                                                                                                                               ITRNORZOXNA.OUDOIE
-s         S                                aRM                       '              SYR     DA N                                              AR A RIOFYRI
A;   AR       0455 P!   a..                         -. o..       SPU                             SOU                                         .                                                 AIO MA TEIL  DEEOMNTAbP         ObUTONC TE






TUR KE             W A ,  D_   3 OD     00               0 AKD             OOA                roD  
SEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r     r-*~ACtP.R.4I I                                                                                                               R       j
h-AR--~~~~~~~~~~~~;-A
AR,. 224 h0*A,a Ob  X- EN .
W - ,,4=46   ,\    / b.d-                                                                            SYRIAN ARAB RE/UBLIC
SEA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~EODEUCTO   RJC
LOCATIONS OF SCHOOL HEALTH CENTERS
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N1- <                                      - -
0       1^    iO              R       .   E   C   (  f    D  RhDDRj
RAEL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  RV.EAT UFC OD
_Jroo ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~                                                            ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SARIONO  CAP/ vITAL'
6)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  DASH1       ~ /TUB,
J                          0 R20  AD   R R
SE&P2#   sgeDlmes O  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21/ /00                                  SYRIA  AIRABRR   PULI
A;                                              1-0 ,                                                  RID R   OR
/ < - [3O LOATIN JORDCHOLHALHCNTR
SD0  0                  \A /.,.                                                                          REDCCM R.0  S4.OLHA LT  GENTER        0'etf   b  e



