Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7069
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 1839-BR)
December 24, 1987
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



T* WORt SANK                     macw nCIA              Y
Wa#hiIon. D.C. MM1
US.A.
Oft of 0"CW4~6
- -
December 24, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Brazil
Second Urban Transport Project (Loan 1839-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a rcport ercitled
"Project Completion Report on Brazil Second Urban Transport Project (Loan
1839-BR)" prepared by the Latin Anberica and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Dtpartment
has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a _iritd disbutiond may be usod by nclants only in th petfbnuane
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be diclued without Wold Bk authouatlon.



F OR FICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETIOW REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1839-AR)
TABMLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .........................                                        I
BASIC DATA SHEET .....................,       .......................    ii
HIGHLIGHTS .................................................            iv
I.  INTRODUCTION           ............. ....................................  I
II.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .............         ...............  I
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST ..............................           3
IV.  OPERATIONS AND TRAFFIC .... ........         ...........................  X
V.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE   ..... ..........           ...............     1n
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ................................ ....         12
VII.  ECONOMIC REEVALUJATION .  .......................................    15
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS .................. 1 lf
TABLES
1.  Disbursements Schedules              ...........................       18
2. Comparison Between Appraisal Estimated and Actual
Project Costs    ..............                                     1q
3.  Operating Statistics      .......................   .................    2n
4.  TRENSURB - Financial Results (1986) .....         ....................  21
5.  TRENSURP - Balance Sheet (1986)          .............................  22
6.  Economic Reevaluation - Cost and Benefit Streams          ............    23
ANNEX
1. Comments from the Borrower.........e...................... . .*    24
MAP
IBRD 14688
mns document h.s a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i1-
BRAZIL
SECOND URUiN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAh 1839-BR)
PROJECT CUIPTLETIOE REPORT
PREKFACE
The following is a project completion report on Brazil's Second
Urban Transport Project, for which a loan in the amount of USS15q.O million
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 6, 1980. The loan was closed
on December 31, 1986, two years later than the appraisal envisaged. Loan
funds amounting to US$26.0 million were cancelled.
The completion report was prepared by the Rank's Latin America and
Caribbean Regional Office and is based upon information obtained from the LAC
Information Center, Staff Project Appraisal Report (Report No. 2759b-BR),
Bank staff supervision reports, draft Project Completion Report prepared by
TRENSURB, information collected during a mission to Porto Alegre in November
1985, and a consultant's report dated April 1986.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), but the project will not be audited by OED
staff.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower for comments.
Their comments were received and have been incorporated into this final
report and reproduced as an Annex.



- il -
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 183%-BR)
PROJECT C0"PIETION REPORT
&ASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Appraisal
Expectation      Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million) _/                          312.8           249.4
Loan Amount (US$ million)                                    159.0           133.0
Disbursed                                                 159.0          133.0
Cancelled                                                   -             26.0
Date Physical Component Completed                            3/84             3/85
Proportion of time overrun (%)                                 -              25.0
Economic Rate of Return ( t)                                 19               11.5
Institutional Performance
Performance of the Borrower                                 -             Fair
Performance of the Executing Agency                         -             Fair
Other Project Data
Original Plan    Actual
Appraisal                                                      -           12/79
Board Approval                                            5/6/80           5/6/80
Loan Agreement Date                                       6/2/80           6/2/80
Date of Effectiveness                                          -           12/9/80
Closing Date                                              12/31/84         12/31/86
Name of the Borrower        Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agencies          State of Rio Grande do Sul
Empresa de Trens Urbanos de Porto Alegre (TRENSURB)
Fundacao Metropolitana de Planeiamento (METROPLAN)
Rede Ferrovi aria Fecieral S.A. (RFFSA)
Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
(GEIPOT)
Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos (EBTU)
Fiscal Year of the Borrower                 1/1-12/31
Follow-on Project:                         None
/  Costs are not readily comparable since the project scope increased during
implementation.
----4--  __                               a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- ii i -
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOM  18 3-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET (CONT'D)
Staff      nate of
Date     Staff      Weeks      Weeks      Report
Identification              8/77        2          2          4        9/02/77
Preparation                 2/79        4          2.5        8        3/12/79
Preparation                 4/79        1          2          2        5/08/79
Pre-appraisal               7/79        6          3         18        8/09/79
Preparation                 8/79        1          0.5        0.5      9/14/79
Appraisal                   9/79        6          3         18       12/05/79
Supervision                 6/80        5          2         10        7/15/80
Supervision                10/80        2          2          4       10/23/80
Supervision                 3/81        2          2          4        3/04/81
Supervision                 7/81        2          2          4        R/28/81
Supervision                 2/82        3          2          6        2/18/82
Supervision                10/82        3          0.5        1.5    12/20/82
Supervision                 6/83        3          0.5        1.5      6/20/83
Supervision                10/83        3          0.5        1.5    11/30/83
Supervision                 3/84        2          1          2        4/13/84
Supervision                10/84        3          1          3       10/25/84
Supervision                 3/85        2          1          2        4/12/85
Limited Supervision         9/85        1          0.5        0.5      9/26/85
Completion                 10/85        1          1          1
t.cumulated Actual and Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Actual as X
Appraisal                    of Appraisal
IBRD !Y           Estimate         Actual         Estimate
1981                 0.1            -                -
1982                26.7             3.4            13
1983                90.1            14.1            16
1984               158.6            56.8            36
1985               159.0           122.0            77
1986                 -             133.0            84



- iv -
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1839-BR)
PRO.JECT COKPIZTION REPORT
RIGHLIGRTS
The Second Urban Transport Project, subject of this report, was
designed to improve the distribution cf land use within the Oorto Alegre
corridor with the fastest growing population, reduce the petroleum fuel
consumption in the same corridor, and avoid traffic congestion both in the
corridor and in the metropolitan center of the city. The objectives were to
be achieved by providing an efficient conventional suburban electric railway,
with associated car parks, bus feeder services and interchange facilities,
while at the same time restricting car parking availability in the downtown
metropolitan area (para 1.02).
The major physical components of the project were successfully
completed within one year of the projected completion date and at a cost 20%
below appraisal estimates, considerable achievements for a project of this
size and complexity (para 8.01). Pr3ject implementation was mostly
problem-free, except for some disagreements which arose in the context of the
application of international competitive bidding rules (taras 3.10-3.12).
The pioject included technical assistance in the form of managerial
support to TRENSURB, to establish the company as a functioning railway
operator and to recommend complementary transport policies to he carried out
by Nucleo Metropolitano de Transportes Urbanos (NMTU), and complementary land
use plans to be carried out by the Fundacao Metropolitana de Planelamento
(METROPLAN) and/or the municipalities in the corridor (para 3.13).
TRENSURB's management consultants carried out their tasks effectively and the
company has been operating the railway services for two years (para 3.14).
The other technical assistance, related to studies on the
reorganization of bus services, the development of commercial areas close to
TRENSURB stations and of station car parking facilities were also
satisfactorily carried out under the project. However, implementation of the
recommendations emanating from those studies has been limited mainly because
of political difficulties (paras 3.15-3.17).
The most serious shortcoming of the project was the failure to
undertake and implement a public transport tariff study as originally
envisaged (para 3.15). This study would have revealed the financial cost of
keeping TRENS'URB's tariffs at their current low levels and provided a basis
for establishing a short term revenue maximizing tariff structure.  However,
the completion of the study and the implementation of its recommendations are
unlikely to jome about unless all responsible authorities recognize its need
(para 6.09)._/
An economic reevaluation of the project, carried out by TRENSITRR at
the end or 1985, yielded an internal rate of return of 11.5%, as compared
with the 24% estimated at appraisal. The main causes for the
1/ Please refer to footnote 7 on page 7 of this report.



-v-
lower-than-anticipated return are: (1) population and demand growth in the
last five years significantly below appraisal estimate; (ii) proportion of
passengers In the corridor using TRENSURB significantly below that
anticipated; and (iii) operating costs, especially staff costs, above those
anticipated (paras 7.03-7.05). Final real inveatment costs, substantialtv
below original estimates, partially offset the decline in benefi:s.
The economic benefits being generated by the prolect are not
reflected in the financial results of TRENSURB. Although it was expected
that TRENSURB would earn sufficient tariff revenue to cover its working
costs, it was never expected to cover its full operational costs and interest
charges. Some form of Government subvention was therefore inevitable.
However, the present level of Government subvention, amounting to more thin
six times the total passenger revenue, considerably exceeds the original
expectations (para 5.06).
The Project Completion Report offers the following conclusions
(paras 8.01-8.04):
(a)  It is not sufficient that the railway service has been successfully
implemented. The success of the project depends upon the service
attracting sufficient passengers to make the investments
economically viable and the railway profitable. This will he
highly contingent upon the resumption of economic growth in Porto
Alegre and in the evolution of the fares for the users of
alternative transport modes. In addition, the attractiveness of
the system would be enhanced by the implementation of the
recommendations of the studies carried out under the project (bus
integration, car parking restrictions, etc.);
(b) One major lesson to be learned from this project is that, In cases
in which there is a need for substantial policy decisions and the
implementation of measures involving different Government agencies
subject to conflicting pressures, their commitment should he
realistically assessed during project preparation. The steps to
ensure that these policies are impJemented on time should he
carefully identified at the same time. In the particutlar case of
the Second Urban Transport Project, a more detailed action program
including specific policy implementation targets and appropriate
measures for its enforcement should have been agreed upon during
appraisal; and
(c) Regarding the original objective of TRENSITR3 covering its working
costs, the appraisal was unrealistic to expect that this would take
place during the initial operation period.  Only after the system
has demonstrated Its reliability to the users, will the application
of a revenue maximizing policy be feaslble. In the meantime,
TRENSURB should review its staff needs in order to streamline costs
and carr out a tariff study to determine the optimal user
charges. / The Bank should closely follow-up the implementation of
these taiskq in the context of its ongoing and future involvement in
the sector and continue to impress upon the Government the benefits
to be gained from a financially healthy public enterprise as well
as the existence of tools much more effective than transport
subsidies to achieve income distribution objectives.
2/ Please refer to footnote 7 on page 7 of this report.



-~-1
PROJICT CO(PLITIOU REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRAlSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1839-BR)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank's involvement with urban transport in Brazil began in
mid-1978 under the First Urban Transport Project, implemented in response to
an increased demand for efficiency in the provision of urban transport
services throughout the country. The First Urbar- Transport Project was
aimed at improving the efficiency of bus services in selected corridors and
making public transport more widely available to low income sectors of the
population. The Project was carried out in five major metropolitan areas,
including Porto Alegre. The Porto Alegre component of the First Urban
Transport Project consisted of improvements to the signalization of bus
corridors, minor improvements to the operation of already completed
projects, and assistance in the paving of routes used by bus services.
1.02      The Second Urban Transport Project, subject of this report, was
designed to improve land use within the corridor with the fastest growing
population, reduce che petroleum fuel consumption in the same corridor, and
avoid traffic congestion both in the corridor and in the metropolitan center
of Porto Alegre.  The objectives were to be achieved by providing an
efficient conventional suburban electric railway in the North-South
corridor, with associated car parks, bus feeder services and interchange
facilities, while at the same time restricting car parking availability in
the downtown metropolitan area.
1.03      This PCR is based upon the following sources of information:
(a) the Staff Project Appraisal Report (Report No. 2759b-BR); (b) Bank staff
supervision reports; (c) LAC Information Center; (d) Draft Project
Completion Report prepared by TRENSURB; (e) information collected during a
mission to Porto Alegre in November 1985; and (f) a consultant's report
dated April 1986.
II.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      The prospect of a Second Urban Transport Project in Brazil was
first suggested by the First Urban Transport Project preparation mission in
1977. That mission recommended that rather than delay the preparation of
the First Project by considering complex suburban rail components, it would
be better to include them in a separate second project. A project



-2-
identification mission took place in February 1979. Petween 1977 and 197%,
consultants were contracted to carry ouc an economic feasibility study of
the proposed project.  The project was conceived in two phases, the firsc
being the construction of a new line from the business center of Porto
Alegre to Sapucaia in the outskirts, a total of 26.7 km, and the second
phase, an extension t.om Sapucaia to Novo Hamburgo (Map IBRD 146R8).  The
Project as described in the remainder of this renort refers only to the
first phase unless otherwise specified.
2.02      The feasibility study confirmed the economic lustification of the
project, on the basis of an assumption that 102 of far passengers in the
corridor would be attracted to the new rail system. / In order to achieve
this level of transfer, the project would include t¶e provision of car
parking facilities at some of the stations. In addition, the agency for the
coordination and regulation of transportation in the metroolitan region of
Porto Alegre, Nucleo Metropolitano de Transportes Urhanos / (NMTU), would
.plement policies which would restrict the use of car parWing space in the
wntown area.  NMTU would also be required t.o engage consultants to study
a best way of modifying bus routes to make them complementary to, rather
-.an competitive with, the rail service.
2.03      From the early stages of project design it was intended that a
separate company (TRENSURB) be established to operate the railwaY. For
practical reasons, the company would start up as a subsidiary of the Federal
Railway Company (RFFSA).
2.04      An important objective of the project was to improve land uise and
transport planning in the metropolitan region of Porto Alegre. / The
support given by the Project to the newly created NMTU to foster its
development into an effective transport regulatory and coordinating agency,
was considered an important benefit. It was hoped that the project woul1
assist in generating an overall revision of the method of assigning bus
route licenses, determining public transp-rt tariff policies, and
implementing auto restraint policies. The Metropolitan Planning Agency
(METROPLAN) was to be involved in identifying potential changes in land
use. Consultants were to be appointed to examine possibilities for creating
and developing commercial centers at specific stations on the new line. The
1/ The Borrower points out that the feasibility study also considered the
diversion of 50% of bus passengers to the system (see page 1 of
Annex j).
2/ The agency was created in December 1979, during project preparation, to
replace the several state agencies previously involved in the
coordination and regulation of transport in the Metropolitan Region of
Porto Alegre.
3/ Should read "the North-South Corridor of the Metropolitan Region of
Porto Alegre (see page 1 of Annex 1).



same consultants were to be used to help METROPLAN update and revise its
land use master plan.
2.05      The establishment of TRENSURB, a necessary prerequisite for
signing the loan agreement, took place in April 19RO. A Rank loan of 1TSS159
million was granted on June 2, 1980 to finance the foreign expenditure
component of the project. USS89.37 million (56.2%) was to finance the
purchase of unit trains and related spare parts, USS14.19 million (8.9%) for
signalling and electrification equipment, USS9.34 million (5.9%) for track
superstructure and a further US$3.93 million (2.5%) for maintenance
equipment and consultants studies. A further US$42.17 million (26.5x) was
unallocated and intended for price and physical contingencies.
2.06      The Federal Urban Transport Authority (EBTU) was designated as the
agent for the Borrower and was required to onlend the loan proceeds to
TRENSURB. The Municipality of Porto Alegre was required to undertake issue
and implementation of the pollcies in respect of car parking restraint.
Other parties to the Agreement were METROPLAN (in respect of commercial
development associated with the railway) and the State of Rio Grande do Sul
(in respect of assisting in implementing the car restraint poliev and,
through NMTU, in identifying bus routes to be discontinued, bus routes to
serve as feeder links to the railway, and making recommendations regarding
bus companies adversely affected by the project. NMTUY was also to undertake
a study of the level and structure of all public transport tariffs in the
Metropolitan Region of Porto Alegre including charges for satellite and
other automobile parking).
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Timing and Costs
3.01      The Loan Agreement became effective on December 9, 19RO.  Problems
with the availability of local funds and delays catsed by differences
between the Bank and the Borrower concerning the application of ICB
procedures, resulted in implementation delays and postponement by two years
of the loan closing date, which was originally envisaged for Decemner 31,
1984.
3.02      The loan agreement was amended four times (Table 1). 4/  The first
amendment, which took place in January 1983 consisted of the reallocation of
loan funds to compensate for fluctuations in the exchange rate which causad
excess funding in some categories and deficiencies in others, and to aczount
for the firming up of some cost estimates. In particular, procurement of
unit trains resulted in a price 48% less than that originally estimated.
41  The original table was corrected in accordance with the Borrower's
comments (see page 2 of Annex 1).



-4-
The reasons for the lower-than-expected prices are two-fold: first,
bidder's quotations were below appraisal estimates because of depressed
world market conditions and, second, the appreciation of the US doliar
vis-A-vis the yen when the contract for the Japanese trains was entered
nto. In the case of Category 3, allocation of loan funds was increased by
dbout US$18.5 million because of the inclusion of a telecommuolications
system (originally not Bank-financed) and of an additional electric
substation. The maintenance equipment category was also increased to permit
the puirchase of track and catenary maintenance equipment, not originally
envisaged for Bank financing since maintenance services were tc be
contracted out to the Federal railways. Furthermore, new exrenditure
categories were added to the loan: one for statlon equipment (automatic
ticket control units) and the other for civil, works comprising the San Pedro
Station, infrastructure works and pedestrian under/over passes.
3.03      A second amendment to the Loan Agreement Was introduced in
September 1983. Part of the categorv of consultancy services was
redesignated as technical assistance with 100% of Bank financing of foreign
expenditures; the remaining consultancy services continued to be financed by
the Bank at 60% of total expenditures.J/  At the same time, a number of
complementary civil works (35% Bank-fi7nanced) were added to the program.
Most of the additional works were designed to provide linkages between
sections of established communities which would be severed by the new rail
line, by means of viaducts and access roads. It was necessary to
incorporate in the project these essential civil work._, which were
originally planned to be financed by the municipalities and State
governments, because budget constraints imposed on thes.- authorities
prevented their undertaking them within the agreed timetable. Other extra
works included extensions to already proposed buildings for maintenance and
operations. In addition, the new category of stgtion equipment was excended
to include tic':et issuing and checking machines._/
3.04      Another important change to the Loan Agreement was agreed to in
December 1983. Reductions in the 1982 and 1983 budgets of Government
agencies, together with escalating civil works prices and changes in the
exchange rate, resulted in a potential gap in the 1983 and 1984 financing
plans for the Project. To compensate for exchange rate differentials and
assist in project implementation, it became necessary to increase the Bank's
participation in the civil works program from 35% to 65%. This also
assisted in making up for deficits in the financing plan. It was Possible
to introduce the higher disbursement percentage under the Special Assistance
Program for Brazil.
5/ The increased Bank financing related only to the technical assistance to
TRENSURB for its operations, management and financial planning
(Part F (1) of the project as described in the Loan Agreement, as
amended on January 11, 1983].
6/ The Borrower points out that no ticket issuing machines were purchased
(see page 3 of Annex 1).



-5-
3,05      In late 1983, the scope of the consultant's services was
extended. The scope of work of the consultant was initially defineI on the
assumption that a number of tasks, tn particular in the areas of setting iin
operational procedures and staff training, would he carried out by
TRENSURB's own staff with minimum assistance from the consultant. However,
a Presidential Decree (No. 88004, of December 1982) forbidding
federally-owned companies to increase the numher of authorized staff
positions, precluded TRENSURB's staff recruitment as scheduled. Only in
September 1983, through an exception decree, TRENSURB was granted the right
to hire additional staff. However, since the new staff to be hired would
not be capable of carrying out some of the tasks which were on the project's
critical path, TRENSURB proposed, and the Bank agreed, to contract the
execution of those tasks to the consultant.
3.06      The reformulated scope of work of the consultant included:
(a)  in the area of personnel selection, training, development and
compensation: (i) a more intensive assistance to TRENSURB in
recruiting staff; (ii) the preparation of manuals for the training
center (operational procedures and norms for the center, and
training manuals for the main positions in the area of
operations); and (iii) assistance in the setting-up of the
training center and in implementation of the training program; and
(b)  in the area of design and installation of systems and procedures:
(i) redefined tasks for the design and installation of the
financial management system, to allow for more intensive
computerization than originally envisaged; (ii) expanded
assistance for the setting up of the maintenance management
system; (iii) updating and detailed design of the operations
plans; and (iv) preparation of the operations manuals of
procedures, norms, and regulations.
The scope of the consultant's work in other areas hasically remained
unchanged.
3.07      During the final reallocation of funds between cateeories
(Novemoer 1984), an additional US$1.0 million was allocated to technical
assistance from the unallocated category. This was necessary in part
because of the increase in the scope of the consultant's work described in
the preceding paragraphs, and also because of the need to extend the
services of the financial experts in order to ensure the completion of the
implementation of a financial accounting system as wel.l as the development
of subsystems for stores control and fixed assets accounting.
3.08      Total project cost was US$249.4 million, about 20% below appraisal
estimate. Several reasons contributed to wide differences bevween the
appraisal estimated and actual costs for individual project items
(Table 2). In every case, because of changes in the exchange rate, US
dollar costs were well below original estimates. However, increases in
quantities of work for some project items more than offset the price decline
(i.e. pedestrian and road vehicles under'over passes, stations and
administration and maintenance depot buildings). In addition, some items



- 6 -
which were not Bank financed were not included in the estimated costs at
appraisal. Such was the case of the consulting services for general
engineering design, supervision of works construction and training; vehicles
and office equipment; and complementary civil works. In any event, even
though the size and scope of the prolect were expanded, loan funds in the
amount of USS26.0 million were not utilized and were cancelled.
Procurement
3.09      As envisaged during appraisal, track infrastructure works,
pedestrian and road vehicle under/over passes and stations were to he
financed by the Borrower and contracts were awarded under local competitive
bidding procedures. These works were satisfactorily completed in early 1985
at a total cost of about US$80.0 million (Table 2). As indicated in
para 2.05, other major components of the project such as unit trains,
signalling, telecommunication and electrification systems, track
superstructure, maintenance equipment, complementary civil works
(para 3.03), and consulting services were to be financed by the Bank loan.
ICB procedures were followed for these components.
3.10      Even before the project was appraised, the Issues Paper identified
a potential conflict between Bank and Brazilian national policy with
respect to the application of international competitive bidding rules. In
the evaluation of bids for the unit trains, the Brazilian Government sought
to add two items to the quoted CIF price of the foreign bids: the Merchant
Fleet Renewal Fee and the Port Improvement Tax. The Bank considered both
items as taxes, the Brazilians considered them as costs. There was also a
difference of opinion in respect of the ocean freight rates quoted by the
lowest bidder as evaluated by the Bank. The bid evaluation made hy the
Brazilian Government increased the freight charges quoted by the lowest
bidder, arguing that they were below the Conference Rate.  The bid
invitation, according to the Bank interpretation, only required the
quotation of a rate by a shipping line belonging to a conference of which
Brazil was a member, and not necessarily a conference rate. The lowest bid
satisfied this condition.
3.11      The addition of the disputed Fleet Renewal and Port Improvement
charges together with the Bank's permitted margin of preference for national
suppliers, resulted in a bid by a Brazilian manufacturer heing the lowest.
In terms of basic price, this bid was 21% higher than that of the lowest
bidder. The bid evaluation results were communicated to the Bank at the end
of August 1981. They were not accepted by the Bank; negotiations ensued,
and by July 1982, the basic difference of opinion was resolved with the
award to the lowest evaluated bidder, without the addition of the disputed
charges. However, difficulties arose at the time of signing the contract in
respect of the shipping line to be used, and the placing of the insurance
contract for freight in transit, with the Borrower arguing that they should
be placed with Brazilian companies. These difficulties were finally
resolved in early 1983 with the Borrower's acceptance of the freight and
insurance companies quoted by the manufacturer.
3.12      Problems also were encountered in the procurement process for
signalling equipment.  One of the bids was rejected on the grounds that



-7-
the bidder had not supplied all the company documentation as specified. The
Bank at first suggested that there were insufficient grounds for rejection
since the omission was only a technicality. A lengthy explanation of the
Brazilian position was included in a letter from the President of TRENSURR
dated March 16, 1983. The Bank finally agreed to the rejection, and the
procurement for signalling equipment experienced onlv a six-week delay.
Technical Assistance
3.13      The project included technical assistance for a value of U5S3.9
million (including contingenclts), of which 60% was to be financed hy the
Bank. The principal component of the technical assistance was to be in the
form of managerial support to TRENS1RB, to establish the company as a
functioning railway operator. Other technical assistance was designed to
recommend complementary transport policies to be carried out by NMTIT, and
complementary land use plans to be carried out by Metroplan and/or the
municipalities in the corridor.
3.14      The management consultant was appointed in July 1982 and provided
valuable assistance at a vital time in the establishment of TRF.NSURB. The
recruitment constraints placed on TRENSURB by the federal government
resulted in insufficient counterpart staff being available. This caused
delays to the consultant's work because tasks expected to be undertaken by
TRENSURB staff, on the consultant's critical path were not carried out on
schedule. The consultant's contract was extended and revised to include
some of the delayed tasks, particularly those relating to staff training.
The additional work represented an increase of 40% in the consultant's
workload.   The consultant carried out the tasks effectively and, in
general, on time. The few delays which occurred could he attrihuted to
factors outside the consultant's control.
3.15      Three of the consultancy contracts, related to studies on the
reorganization of bus services, the feasibility of TRENS1TRR Phase 2, and
on land-use for satellite automobile parks, were awarded to a local
consulting firm, which completed its assignment. Subsequentlv, the same
local firm was selected to carry out the study of public transport tariffs,
including those to be used by TRENSURB, however, the contract was not signed
because this firm ran into financial difficulties. After consultation wlth
CBTU, it was agreed that GEIPOT would undertake the study, however, the
study gad not been completed at the time of writing of this report (February
1987)./
3.16      The other three studies, related to the development of commercial
areas and services close to TRENSURB stations, the satellite automobile
parks, auto restraint policy and monitoring (undertaken by a consortium),
and to the urban development along the area of influence of TRENSURB
(prepared by Metroplan) were completed in 1982.
7/ The tariff study was finally received by the Bank in November 1987
together with the Borrower's comments (see Borrower's letter included in
Annex 1) and is now under review.



8-
3.17      Although the performance of the consultant for the studv and
recommendation of complementary policies was acceptable, there was a lack of
urgency in awarding the contracts and there has since been a lack of
interest in implementing the recommendations. Supervision missions
frequently brought the problem of implementation to the attention of the
responsible authorities but with little success, mainlv because of the
political difficulties expected to arise from such implXmentation.
IV. OPERATIONS AND TRAFFIC
Operations
4.01      Table 3 pre3ents a comparison hetween the operating statistics
estimated at appraisal and those recorded in early 1986. Passenger services
started on March 3, 1985 with a pilot service operating during limited 9
hours. The service has built up and is now operating 17 hours per day,9/
with a maximum peak frequency of ten trains per hour, five trains per hour
in the off-peak and three trains per hour on the late night service (after
20:30 hr). The peak period frequency is lower than that envisaged at
appraisal (10 per hour vs 11 per hour) but higher than that envisaged for
the off-peak (five per hour vs four per hour). The total number of daily
services (192) represents 87% of that envisaged in the appraisal evaluation
(220 per dayV   Since the trains are at present operating with one unit all
of the day, v_ instead of with two in the peak and intermediate peak
periods, the daily unit-kilometers (5,165) are only 74% of those expected
(6,992). It follows that the total capacity offered is lower than
envisaged.
4.02      The availability of unit trains for passenger service is lower
than that originally expected. A problem with corrosion of the floors in
the region of the door frawes is being rectified by the manufacturer under
the terms of the guarantee but the rectification work is resulting in a low
availability of units. The utilization of the available units is better
than anticipated because of the high off-peak frequency.
4.03      The level of maintenance of unit trains is being adversely
affected by the low number of maintenance staff available. TRENSURR has
8/  Paragraphs 3.15, 3.16 and 3.17 were changed to reflect the Rorrower's
comments (see page 3 of Annex 1).
9/ The Borrower points otut that the service is now operating 17.5 hours per
day.
°/ Each unit consists of four cars.



-9-
been partially successful in avoiding the full impact of public sector staff
recruitment constraints, but maintenance staff levels are still below those
considered necessary (para 5.10). The problem will become more serious a
few years from now when the units begin to require general overhauls after
500,000 km.
4.04      The average operating speed is at present 41 km/hr.  The expected
average operating speed was 42 km/hr. The lower-than-expected speed results
from lack of detailed analysis of possible speed profiles related to track
geometry and some temporary restrictions imposed by the unit train
manufacturer.  The  lourney time from Mercado Station to Sapacuia is 39 min,
compared to an appraisal e3timated time of 38 min. This additional time
requires that the number of peak hour trains in service he increased hy two
to i,aintain the ten-per-hour frequency. 11/
4.05      The number of passengers recorded as travelling per day has
increased from 95,000 in the first week of service to 103,000 in July 1985
and reached an average of 113,000 in 1986. 12/  The appraisal evaluation was
based upon an estimate of 260,000 passengers per day for 1985. There are
several reasons for the substantial difference between the projected and
actual passenger level.
4.06      First, the projected population growth in the transit corridor has
been much lower than expected. The depresssed level of the Brazilian
economy in the years since project appraisal has resulted in a slowdown in
the rate of population migration from rural areas to the metropolis.
Planning policies which were expected to concentrate anticipated urban
growth along the corridor have not been implemented (slowdown in migration
has made them unnecessary), and so the limited actual population growth has
been more dispersed through the metropolitan area. The estimated population
of the metropolitan area in 1985 was 2.73 million, 17% below the appraisal
forecast of 3.20 million.
4.07      The lower-than-appraisal-expected population growth is reflected
in the traffic counts on the principal road in the same traffic corridor,
whicTh indicate traffic levels between 9% and 30% lower than those projected
in the appraisal. With lower traffic levels and less traffic conaestion,
the incentive for car passengers to transfer to rail is less than
anticipated.
11   Subsequent to the writing of this report the average operating speed has
increased to 46 km/h, thus reducing the journey time from Mercado
station to Sapacuia to 35 minutes. See page 4 of Annex 1 for further
details of operational changes reported by the Borrower.
12/ See page 4 and Table 3 of Annex 1 for the updated traffic statistics
reported by the Borrower.



- ic -
4.08      Second, there was an assumption that commercial development at
selected points along the corridor would take place, increasing the number
of trips from the central area. The appraisal made little or no allowance
for the time necessary for this development to take place. As the service
has been in full operation for less than two years, there has been little
opportunity for an impact on lprd use patterns.  The major impact of this
factor is unlikely to be evident for at least five years from the start of
services.
4.09      Third, the appraisal assumed that city centre car par,ing would he
restricted, feeder bus services would he implemented in the suburban
municipalities, and cat parking facilities would he made availahle at
suburban stations. In practice, there has been no restraint on city centre
car parking, only two feeder bus services are operating, and car parking
available at suburban stations is minimal.
4.10      Finally, there is probably an underestimation of present passenger
flows since the automatic ticket barriers only recently became operational
and the temporary manual inspection of tickets allowed for a significant
level of fare evrasion. This is estimated at between 10% and 20%. This
underestimation, however, may have a limited influence on longer-term
passenger demand expectations since many of the non-paying passengers may he
deterred from travelling when the system becomes less susceptihle to
evasion.
4.11      To offset the factors leading to lower-than-projected user levels
described in the preceding paragraphs and attract passengers, the present
tariff has been set lower than that envisaged at appraisal. The appraisal
assumed a rail tariff of 120% of the minimum hus tariff. The present rail
tariff is about 80% of the minimum bus tariff. Nevertheless, passenger
demand is less than half of that anticipated, a fact that negatively affects
the financial results and economic reevaluation of the project.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Passenger Revenues
5.01      The appraisal report indicated that TRENSURB operations should
earn sufficient traffic revenue to cover working costs and to make a
significant contribution to operating costs. No specific financial
projections were included in the appraisal report.  Instead, annual
operating costs were calculated for six different levels of operation,
ranging from 100,000 to 500,000 passengers per dayv Passenger revenue was
not specified but it was estiniated at appraisal that it would be set above
working costs per passenger (Cr$ 4.82; 18 IJS cents in mid-1197  values) and
below the then current average bus tariff (CrS 7.00 or 27 US cents in



- 11 -
mid-1979 values)J13/  'inancial sensitivity analyses were made with tariff's
of Cr$ 2, CrS 3, ZiS 4, CrS 5 and CrS 6 per passenger. The analyses with
base case operating costs indicated a working ratio of 100 at a tariff
between CrS ' and CrS 3. With personnel costs incrersed by 100%, this
working ratio was entimated to be achieved at a tariff of between CrS 4 and
CrS 5.
5.02      Technical assistance was included in the loan to finaace a ;,tudv
of public transport tariffs in Porto Alegre with the intention of leading to
a recommended tariff for TRENSURB, hut the tariff study has not so Tar been
completed despite continual pressure from the Bank on the Borrower. /
When passenger operations started in March 1985, the tariff was setiat
CrS 450 (equivalent to US 8.7 cents). The tariff has twice heen increased
and was,in March 1987, CzS 2.00 (equivalent to US 12.0 cents). To encourage
interchange passengers, a combination TRENSURB/feeder hIs ticket is
available on the route in Canoas. The tariff for the combination ticket is
CzS 3.50 (US 22 cents).  These fares are still below levels which would at
least cover working costs (para 5.07).
5.03      Tables 4 and 5 Present, respectively, TRENSURB's preliminary
Financial Results and Balance Sheet for 1986. As seen in the tables,
operating revenue amounted to USS2.37 million equivalent. This compares
with an estimate in the appraisal report of USS1R.14 million for the first
year of operation. / Total income for 1986 was TUSS18.40 million,
including US$16.2 iiTllion in government subsidy. Although it was expected
that TRENSURB would earn sufficient tariff revenue to cover its working
costs, it was never expected to cover its full operating costs (working
costs plus depreciation) and interest charges. Some form of government
subvention was therefore inevitable. However, the present level of
Government subvention, amounting to more than six times the total passenger
revenue, considerably exceeds the original expectations.
Working Costs
5.04      The present pattern of traffic operations was nlanned for A
passenger level of 260,000 passengers per dav. In particuilar, the number of
unit trains acquired was based upon this level. The average working cost
per passenger, as estimated bv TRENSURB, for 1085/86, is US 11 cents. The
total 1986 working cost is USS12.63 million equivalent for an average
3/  The minimum bus fare for the shorter routes was Crq 5.n.
14/ See footnote 7.
5/  This figure was corrected to reflect the Borrower's comments, see page 4
of Annex 1.



- 12 -
traffic level of 113,000 passengers. These figures compare with appraisal
report figures of US 18 cents and USS14.04 million respectively at 260,000
passengers per day and IJS 21 cents and USS6.20 million equivalent for
I00,000 vassengers per day.
5.05      The discrepancy between the total costs projected in the appraisal
Leporc and those achieved is largelv attributahle to the categorv of lahor
costs. A comparison between the appraisal projected staff nurhers hy
category and present TRFNSURB staff numbers in the same categories, is shown
in Table 3. The present staff costs are USS8.81 million equivalent per
year, compared with USS5.50 million (260,000 passenger level) in the
appraisal assessment.
5.06      The average cost per staff memher is considerably less than that
estimated in the appraisal report. The appraisal costs were TJSSR,647 and
US$9,280 per year for the 260,000 and 100,000 per day passenger levels
respectively. The actual cost is onlv US95,705 per person.
5.07      However, the present TRENSURB staffing level of 1,294 (eno-19QR)
is almost double that envisaged in the hasic proposal, to carry 26n,n00
passengers per day. The staffing levels were substantially underestimated
at appraisal; the consultant subsequently recommended a staffing level of
1,790 for the full system. This underestimation was especially evident in
the administration, station and workshop categories. Nevertheless, the
organization chart that forms the basis of the consultant's estimates
indicates a rather top heavy administrative structure more typical of a
public sector railway than of a commercially-oriented enterprise. Increases
of this order in working costs, coupled with low fares have adversely
affected tF-e financial performance of the enterprise.
VI. INSTITUsTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01      Institutional performance needs to he considered in two distinct
parts. First, the performance of the new company, TRENSURR itself, and
second, the performance f the institutions responsible for the
complementary transport and land use policies envisaged at appraisal. Both
institutional groups have interrelated roles, crucial to the eventual
success of the project; a satisfactory performance by one of them can easilv
be negated by the poor performance of the other.
6.02      Considering the project objectives at appraisal, the creation of a
new company with shareholding by various existing public sector authorities
and the construction and putting into operation by that companv of a
completely new service within a five-year period is an ambitious target in
any context. Likewise, the investments in the new services were to serve as
a driving force in restructuring urban transport and land use patterns in a
complex metropolitan area, also within a five-year span. In retrosoect, it
can therefore be said that project objectives at appraisal were overly
ambitious.



- 13 -
6.03      The degree of success achieved varied.  TRENSURR itself succeeded
in completing all the physical works and equipment procurement, and has teen
operating a passenger service for almost two years. In contrast, few of the
complementary policies have been implemented. That is not to say that no
beneficial results at all have been obtained, since the various studies
carried out under the project are providing useful inputs to the modest town
planning efforts being carried out. However, implementation of the studies'
recommendations, in the context of the rapid transit system, is taking place
at a pace much slower than originally envisaged.
TRENSURB
6.04      TRENSURB was already established as a subsidiary of RFFSA when the
Loan Agreement was signed. The early development of an organizational
structure and the filling of senior posts with competent and experienced
professionals was handled efficiently. The first serious problems arose
when the federal government prohibited the recruitment of further staff by
all federal agencies. This prohibition came at a time when TRENSTTRR needed
to expand its staff rapidly in the process of changing from a construction
to an operating company. Nevertheless, subsequently, TRENSURB was able to
overcome this problem by obtaining an exemption from this prohihition and by
temporarily placing some in-line responsibilities on the management
consultant. TRENSURB's performance is still hampered by interference from
local, state, and federal governments and pressure groups, while striving to
get established as a transportation company. For its performance to improve
significantly, it should be afforded a greater degree of autonomy, while at
the same time fully implementing the complementary town planning policies.
Other Institutions
6.05      At the time of the appraisal, much reliance was placed upon the
newly created NMTU. It was agreed that NMTU would:
(i) grant and review franchises for intra- and intermunicipal bus
services and taxi operators;
(ii)  specify bus routes;
(iii) coordinate levels of service at intermodal connections;
(iv)  specify, regulate and review safety standards for all transport
modes;
(v)  provide transport enterprises with guidelines for the setting of
tariffs, monitor such tariffs, and require such enterprises to
propose tariff changes;
(vi) regulate the use of private cars through the ,coordination of
municipal parking policies, user charges, and taxes, and
encourage the use of public transport;
(vii) review and advise on all proposed transport infrastructure
investment decisions in the metropolitan area; and



- 14 -
(viii) prepare and update annually an indicative five-year rolling
transport plan to serve as a guide for public and private
investment decisions.
6.06      There is no doubt of the need for such an institution as NMTU but
in practice it was too optimistic to expect that an under-resourced and not
fully accepted institution could achieve so many objectives in the context
and time-span of one project. Support for NMTU was weak, and, as a whole,
it was unable to overcome the reaction which arose against it because many
of its functions interfered with established interests. To sum up, NMTU was
subject to considerable opposition and it lacked the political support which
was essential to pursue its objectives successfully.
6.07      For a long time, it was not certain whether NMTU had the
legislative authority to undertake the tasks it was responsible for under
the Loan Agreement. The first problems become apparent in 1980 when it was
realized that NMTU could not contract directly with a consultant because it
had not been formally established as a legal entity. The status of NMRTU was
still unclear early in 1984. At that time, the State could not decide
whether NMTU should function under the State Governor or the State Secretary
for Transportation. Finally, in mid-1984, NMTII was dishanded, and its
responsibilities assumed by METROPLAN. Unfortunately, the same
indeterminations regarding status are now associated with METROPLAN's
legislative authority to carry out the same tasks, a fact that continues
hindering the achievement of METROPLAN's multiple objectives.
6.08      The main institutional achievement under the project was the
completion of the studies for complementary policies (paras 3.14 and 3.15),
with the exception of the tariff study. As already discussed, the
implementation of the recommendations emanating from those studies is
proceeding slowly. More specifically, some bus feeder services have been
established (i.e. to the Canoas, Esteio and Sapucaia stations),
recommendations on commercial development are being included in the
medium-term municipal development master plans, and some development
investments are already taking place in the Esteio station area of
influence. With regard to the car parking rgstriction, measures were taken
only in the area of the Rodoviaria Station. /
6.09      The most serious shortcoming is the failure to undertake and
implement the public transport tariff study. As already discussed, TRENSURR
is charging tariffs which cover only one third of its working costs, in part
as a result of implementing a tariff policy with different objectives than
those included in the Loan Agreement. The tariff study, now under the
responsibility of METROPLAN and CBTU, is urgently needed if the financial
problem of TRENSURB is to be alleviated in the short term. This study
should reveal the financial cost of keeping tariffs at their current levels,
and provide a basis for establishing a short term revenue maximizing tariff
6/  The Borrower points out that car park restriction measures were also
-    implemented in the Mercado Station.



- 15 -
structure. However, the completion of the study and the implementation of
its recommendations are unlikely to come about unless all responsihle
authorities recognize its need. Politically, actions to increase revenues
and/or decrease costs may be lifficult, especially if TREN9URB is perceived
as a social service, rather than a commercial enterprise. /
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
7.01      The appraisal report included an economic evaluation of five
alternative public transport projects for the North-South corridor of Porto
dlegre. The selected alternative yielded an economic internal rate of
return of 24%. Sensitivity tests were carried out with investment costs 15%
nigher, passenger time values at zero, onlv 10 of car passengers
transferring to rail instead of 10% in the first year increasing to 25% by
the 30th year, and an overall reduction of 15% in benefits. The rates of
return for the sensitivity tests were 22%, 17%, 19%, and 22% respectively;
i.e., they showed a low sensitivity to the range of tests made.
7.02      In practice, the costs and henefits have hoth fallen outside the
range of the sensitivity tests. The investment costs are 80% of those in
the base case, TRENSURB passenger levels at present are 40% of those in the
base case, operating costs are 10% higher, and road traffic is only about
80% of that projected for 1985. The reevaluation is hasically to test
whether the reduction in investment costs sufficiently offsets the fall in
benefits to maintain an acceptable rate of return.
7.03      A reevaluation was carried out at the end of 1985 by TRENSTJRB,
using basically the same methodology as the appraisal evaluation but
comparing only the implemented project and a 'without project' case. This
reevaluation indicated a rate of return of 11.5% (Table 6).
7.04      The main causes of the fall in the rate of return from that of the
appraisal report are:
(i)  population and demand growth in the last five years significantly
below that anticipated;
(ii)  proportion of passengers in the corridor using TRENSURB
significantly below that anticipated; and
(iii)  operating costs, especially staff costs, above those anticipated.
7/  As reported by the Borrower, the preparation of the study was
subsequently placed under the responsibility of Geipot. With the
assistance of CBTU and TRENSURB, the study was finally completed in
September 1987 (see footnote 7).



- 16 -
7.05      The reduction in economic growth In Brazil in the early 1P8Os,
i.e., the underlying factor in (i) above, was not foreseen and cotild not
reasonably have been so.  However, the sensitivity test for demand did not
cover a wide enough range, given the high growth rates projected.  The
projected modal split was optimistic, at least for the early vears of the
project.  A lower proportion of commuters using the new service in the early
years of the project has a disproportionate effect on the benefits and hence
on the rate of return.  The original cost estimates underestimated the staff
requirements for an independent railway operation; nevertheless, nresent
staff levels are higher than technically necessarv /
VIII.  CONCLIJSIONS
8.01      The major physical components of the project were successfully
completed within one year of the projected completion date and at a cost
20% below appraisal estimates, considerable achievements for a project of
this size and complexity. However, the failure to implement complementary
measures is having a negative effect on the operational and financial
performance of TRENSURB. It is not sufficient that the railway service has
been successfully implemented. The success of the project depends on the
service attracting sufficient passengers to make the investments
economically viable and the railway profitable. This will he highly
contingent upon the resumption of economic growtit in the metropolitan region
of Porto Alegre and in the evolution of the fares for the users of
alternative transport modes. In addition, the attractiveness of the svstem
would be enhanced by implementation of the complementary actions recommended
by the studies carried out under the project (bus integration, car parking
restrictions, etc.)
8.02      One major lesson to be learned from this project is that, in cases
in which there is a need for substantial policy decisions and the
implementation of measures involving different levels of Government agencies
subject to conflicting political and social pressures, their commitment
should be realistically assessed during project preparation. The steps to
ensure that these policies are implemented on time should be carefully
identified at the same time. In the particular case of the Second Urban
Transport Project, a more detailed action program including specific policy
implementation targets and appropriate measures for its enforcement should
have been agreed upon during appraisal.
8.03      Although the economic reevaluation yielded a marginally acceptahle
return, this was mostly due to fortuitous developments that resulted in a
final real investment cost substantially below original estimates. However,
the economic benefits being generated by the project are not reflected in
18/ The Borrower does not concur with the report's opinion regarding present
-    staff levels of TRENSURB (see page 5 of Annex 1).



- 17 -
the financial results of TRENSURB, since tariffs charged are not in line
with the quality of service provided.
8.04      Regarding the original objective of TRENSURR covering its working
costs, the appraisal was unrealistic to expect that this would take place
during the initial operation period. Only after the system has demonstrated
its reliability to the users, will the application of a revenue-maximizing
policy be feasible. In the meantime, TRENSURB should review its staff needs
in order to streamline costs and carry out a tariff study to determine the
optimal user charges. The Bank shoald closely follow-up the implementation
of these tasks in the context of its ongoing and future involvement in the
sector and continue to impress upon the Government the benefits to he gained
from a financially healthy public enterprise as well as the existence of
tools much more effective than transport subsidies to achieve income
discribution objectives.



- 18 -
TARLF. 1
PROJECT CGOMPMO IEPORT
MEMl IMME TRMIPT PROECT (LOAM i8lA-M)
Olsburaents Setidulas
(US$  I I Ion)
Origin l       Revislon     Revision      Rowleslon      Revision         Final
Allocation     Jan. 1983    Sept. 1983     Dec. 1983      NOV. 1984     Allocation
(I) Traick Superstructure                 9,340,000     10,530,00     9,400,000     9,400,000      9,400,000     8,410,57.75
(2) Unit Tralns ad related spares         89,370,00    77,780,000    77,800,000     73,000,000    73,000,000    66,999,373.84
(3) Slgi fling, electrification, etc.    14,190,000    32,700,000    29,000,000    29,000,000     29,000,000     27,834,677.19
(4)   intebamnos equilpmnt                2,220,000     9,200,000     9,200,000     9,200,000      9,200,000     7,907,650.10
;S) Pasenger s'stlan equlprnt                          1,50o0o,0     4,300.000     4,300,000      4,300,000      3,363,465.99
(6) Conultantsb Servics                                 2,500,000
(a) Technical Asslstance                                         1,8Q,O000      1,800,o0      2,800,000      2,919,028.19
(b) Consultanb' Services             1,710,000                     700,000        700,000       700,000        175,093.36
(7) C lvi I Work                                       10,000,000
(a) Parts A and 0 (t) thru 8 (4)                                 10,000,000    13,600,000     13,600,000     8,182,936.3
(b) Parts 9 (5) thru a (71                                       7,900,000     11,700,000     11,700,000     5,770,189.43
(8) Uncliocabd                           42,170,000    14,790,000     8,900,000     6,300,000      5,300,000         - 0 -
70TO.:                              159,000,000    1590000       59,000,000    159,000,W0    139,00,000    132,950,137.53
Sources
(Date)



-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~1
- 19 -                          TABLE 2
PROJRCT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORr PROJECT (LOAN 1839-BR)
Cwaparison Between Appraisal Estimated and Actual Project (but.
(US$ million)
Estsmr.*^ed   Actual         z
Cobue       Costs      Difference
Track Infrastructure                             15.0        20.8         +39
Track Superstructure                            34.4         16.8         -51
Pedestrian and road vehic'le
under/over passes                             35.6         39.5         +11
Stations                                        23.0         19.1         -17
Administration and maintenance
depot buildings                               10.7         15.0         +40
Maintenance depot equipment                       2.8         6.6        +100
Permanent way maintenance equipment              0.5
Telecommunications                               5.4          4.1         -24
Signalling                                       12.6        14.6         +16
Electrification                                 17.1         19.0         +11
Satellite car parking                            4.4          0.1         -98
Expropriations                                  23.3          2.0         -91
Unit trains                                     114.5        64.8         -48
Unit train spare parts                           9.6
Technical assistance                             3.9          5.4         +38
Consulting Services for
Projects, Studies and Supervision               -           8.2          -
Training, vehicles and office equipment           -           1.4
Complementary Civil Works                        _           12.0
TOTAL:                                    312.8        249.4         -20
=
1/ Including contingencies.
Source: TRENSURB



- 20 -
TARLE I
PROJECT CIrPTION RIUPRT
AZIL
SECOND UMll TRANISPOR POJECT (LOAN 1839-BR)
Opetatlt  Statel lea  /
Appraisal
1.  Train Operations                                    Estimate             Actual
A. General Information
Origin                                       Mercado Station  Mercado Station
Destination                                  Sapucaia           SaDucaia
Route length                                 26.7 km            26.7 km
Average train speed                          42 km/hr           41 km/hr
Operating day                                18 hours           17 hours
Average operating days per year              300 days           Ano davs
Unit train                                   4 cars             4 cars
Unit train passenger capacity                1,200              1,n78
Unit train energy consumption                62.4 watt/hr       64.7 watt/hr
per xross ton-km
B.  Passenger Traffic (per day)                  260,000            1n3,nnn
C. Number of Trains
Peak hour                                    11                 10
Off-peak hour                                4                  5
D. Headway between trains (minutes)
Peak hour                                    5.5                h
Mid-peak hour                                6.6                12
Off-peak hour                                15.0               12
E. Fleet Requirements (unit trains)
Average peak hour                            22                 17
In repair/maintenance                        3                  A
Total                                        25                 25
Availability                                 85%                70%
F. Personnel requirements (staff members)
DirectorsF                                   9                  12
Managers                                     10                 22
Supervisors                                  12                 28
Drivers and inspectors                       33                 1A2
Administration                               60i                228
Station Staff                                366                469
Workshops                                    58                 293
Track Maintenance                            R6                 An
Total:                                       634                1,2q4 2
G. Operating Statistics
Number of daily train trips                  220                192
Number of daily unit train trips             344                192
Daily train-km                               4,264              5,165
Daily unit train-km                          6,992              5,165
Daily gross ton-km (1,000)                   2,166              1,176
See Table 3 of Annex I for updated (1987) statistics.
2   This figure compares with a total of 1,790 staff recommended by the project
consultant. The appraisal numbers were considerahly underestimated.
Source: TRENSURB
March 1987



- 21 -
TABLE 4
PROJECT CONFLITION REPORT
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJICT (LOMN 1839-SR)
TRINSuU - Financial Results (1986)
Appraisal
Estimate              Actual
(US$ million)        (US$ million)
Reference Demand
(passengers per day)                260,000             113,070
Income
Passenger Revenue                         18.14                  2.37
Other Revenue                               -                     -
Government Subsidy                          -                   16.12
Subtotal:                            18.14                 18.49
Expenses
Salaries and Wages                         5.50                  8.81
Energy and Lubricants                      1.23                  0.62
Materials and Other                         1.30                 3.20
Subtotal Working Costs:               8.03                12.63
Depreciation                               6.54                 12.96 I/
Total Operating Costs:               14.57                25.59
Operating Results                          3.57                 (7.09)
Net Financial Expenses                     0.23                (52.02)
Monetary Adjustment                         -                   56.73
Annual Profit/Loss                         3.80                 (2.38)
Ratios
Working Ratio                              0.44                  0.68
Operating Ratio                            0.80                  1.38
1I Including amortization of deferred assets.
Exchange Rates
1979: Cr$ 26
1986: Cz$ 13.65 (In February 1986, Cr$ 1,000 became Cz 1.00)
Source: TRENSURB



- 22 -
TABLE 5
PROWJCT COKPLTION REPOIT
SIEL
S800ND UMBAN TRANSPOIT PROJECT (LOAN 18319-BR)
TRKiURi - Uslance Sheet (1986)
Appraisal
Estimate              Actual
(US$ million)        (US$ million)
Assets
Current Assets                                    1.67                1.31
Investments                                      9.50                 0.02
Stock                                            6.40                 1.15
Fixed Assets 1/                                238.55               187.29
Deferred Assets                                    -                 78.19
Total Assets:                             256.12              267.96
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities                               0.82                2.70
Long-Term Debt
EBTU Loan                                    159.00               146.95 4/
Other Debt                                      _                   4.70
Equity Capital                                  92.49                90.48 2/ 5/
Reserves                                         3.81                23.13 3/
Subtotal:                                  96.30              113.61
Total Liabilities and Equity:             256.12              267.96
1, Preoperational expenses capitalized.
2/  Including monetary adjustments.
3/  Includes operating results.
4/  Including about US$10.0 miAlion of foreign exchange loss.
5/  Including US$9.69 of capital contribution.
Source: TRENSURB



- 23 -                               TABLE 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRUAIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1839-BR)
Economic Reevaluation - Cost and Benefit Streams
(CZ 1Or)
Investment          Savings in            Savings in          Time         Total
Year      Economic Costs    Maintenance Costs   Operating Costs           Savings      Benefits
1980            -3.97                0.00                 0.00             0.00          0.00
1981          -14.80                 0.00                 0.00             0.00          0.00
1982           -22.64                0.00                 0.00             0.00          0.00
1983          -31.41                 0.00                 0.00             0.00          0.00
1984           -97.36                0.00                 0.00             0.00          0.00
1985          -20.15                 -.42                -2.85             3.82           .55
1986            -6.36                -.42                -2.73             5.70          2.55
1987             0.00                -.42                -2.62             7.54          4.50
1988             0.00                -.42                -2.51             9.31          6.38
1989             0.00                -.42                -2.42            10.98          8.14
1990             0.00                -.42                -2.33            12.51          9.75
1991             0.00                -.42                 1.42            19.00         20.00
1992             0.00                -.42                 5.62            25.80         31.00
1993             0.00                -.42                10.31            32.93         42.82
1994             0.00                -.42                15.55            40.44         55.57
1995             0.00                -.42                21.41            48.37         69.36
1996             0.00                -.42                20.35            51.10         71.02
1997             0.00                -.42                18.96            54.00         72.53
1998          -24.48                 -.42                17.19            57.09         73.86
1999             0.00                -.42                15.00            60.39         74.97
2000             0.00                -.42                12.32            63.93         75.82
2001             0.00                -.42                12.23            69.61         81.42
2002             0.00                -.42                12.04            75.39         87.01
2003             0.00                -.42                11.73            81.31         92.62
2004             0.00                -.42                11.32            87.41         98.31
IRR - 11.5%
Source: TRENSURB



-24 -                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 9
ORIGINAL COOENTS FROM THE BORROWER
rQ       TRENSURB
EMPRESA DE TRENS URSANOS DE PORTO ALEGRE S. A.
coc. 076653 /0001-6
OF-PRES-148/87         Porto Alegre, 16 de outubro ie 1987.
Ref.: BIRD II- Emprestimo 1839-BR
Relat6rio de Conclusao de Projeto
Prezado Senhor Ribi:
Recebemos desse BIRD, c6pia da minuta dc Relatorio de
Conclusao de Projeto preparado pelo Banco, e    gentilmente
remetido para nossa apreciagao.   Nossa equipe analisou   0
documento e emitiu comentarios, que anexamos, juntamente ccm
o Estudo sobre Tarifas no Corredor Norte da Regiao Metropo-
litana de Porto Alegre.    Esses comentarios tem porobjeti-
vo complementar algumas observag6es do PCR do Banco,e atua
lizar os dados operacionais ccm informag6es do ano de 1987
ate o mes de agosto.
Com este dccumento, aproxima-se do encerram.ento a se
rie de informagoes, e ccmentarios de andamentos   intercam-
biados em correspondencias e em sucessivas reunioes de mis
sao do Banco ao longo do periodo de vigencia do emprestimo
1839-BR.   No entanto, continuamos a disposigao para quais-
quer informag3es que o Banco desejar.
Estaremos no aguardo do recebimento de um exemplar da
versao definitiva do Relat6rio de Conclusao de Projeto.
Atenciosamente,
UETO DE CASTRO SERAFINI FILHO
Diretor Presidente
Ilmo. Sr. Rene A. Ribi
Acting Chief
Poliay-besed Lending, Energy, Industry
and Urban Sectors Division
Operations Evolution Departament
Banco Mundial de Reconstrugao e Desenvolvimento
WASHINGTON, DC, USA
RUA ERNEST0 NEEUGEAUE!., tIN. POO ALEGRE - tS. - FON: PABX (0512) 43-4111



-25 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 9
TRENSURS
EMPRESA DE TRENS URBANOS DE PORTO ALEGRE S. A.
CGC. 90976853/001.56
OBSERVAQOES SOBRE 0 "PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)"
DATADO DE 11 DE SETEMBRO DE 1987 E
ENCAMINHADO PELO BIRD EM 11.09.87
Pag. 2 - Paragrafo 2.02
A hipotese sugerida pelos Consultores refere-se a
transferencia modal de 10% dos passageiros provenientes de
autom6veis e 50% dos Snibus.
Pag. 2 - Paragrafo 2.04
Os objetivos do projeto referem-se ao desenvolvi-
mento do uso do solo no corredor norte-sul da regiao  metro
politana.
Pag. 3 - Paragrafo 3.02
No que se refere a tabela 1:
. Os valores langados estao representados em milh8es
de d6lares; estao em desacordo com o cabegalho;
. 0 valor correto do item (2) - Trens-Unidade,e de
US$ 89,370,000;
. 0 valor correto do item (1) - Superestrutura,  e
de US$ 10,530,000;
. 0 valor resultante da revisao de Janeiro de1983,
continua sendo US$ 159,0CO,OOO.
Pag. 4 - Paragrafo 3.03
_  Nao foram adquiridas maquinas de emissao de  bi-
lhetes.
RUA ERNESTO NEUGEBAUER, 1985 FONE PAUX (0512) 434111 PORTO ALEORE -F S



- 26 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 9
TRENSURB
E MPRESA DTRENS URSANOS OF PORTO ALEGRE S. A.
Pag. 7 - Paragrafo 3.15
Os estudos contratados com a consultora (SAPSA) fo
ram o estudo de viabilidade da 2' etapa;   o estudo de rema
nejo das linhas de onibus e o estudo das areas satelites de
estacionamento para automoveis.   Destes, os dois primeiros
foram concluldos ate a minuta do relatorio final, e o ter-
ceiro, chegou a ser apresentado em forme. definitiva.  0 es-
tudo de tarifas nao chegou a ser contratado com a mesma con
sultora (julghda vencedora da ccncorrencia), devido as suas
dificuldades financeiras que a impediram de apresentar rela
t6rios finais definitivos de dois estudos.
O estudo de tarifas foi realizado pelo GEIPOT, com
ass?ssoramento da CETU e TRENSURB.   Foi concluldo em   sua
forma definitiva em setembro de 1987, tendo sido   entregue
em maos a missao do Banco que visitou a TRENSURB nos dias 5
e 6 de outubro/1987.
Pig. 7 - Paragrafo 3.16
Outros dois estudos foram realizados por un.cons6r-
cio consultora (TRANSPLAN-Bourscheid):   o estudo do desen-
volvimento de areas de comercio e servigos junto asestagoes,
e o estudo da politica de restrigao ao uso do autom6vel, am
bos concluldos em 1982.
O PCR nao menciona o estudo do desenvolvimento ur-
bano ao longo da area servida pelo trem metropolitano.    0
relat6rio de ccnclusao elaborado pela TRENSURB (pag. 60)faz
esclarecimentos a respeito do estudo mencionadc, e que foi
elaborado pela METROPLAN em 1982.
Pig. 7 - Paragrafo 4.01
. A TRENSURB esta operando hoje, 17,5 horas.
(5:30 hs as 23:0 hs);
. Consideramos que embora a oferta de trens   seja
inferior aquela prognosticada no "Appraisal",ela
esta adequada a demanda, proporcionando um   bom
nivel de servigo ao usuario.
T4  .?      RUA ERNESTO NEUGEBAUmR, 1965. FONE PFAX (0512 43.4111 - PORTO ALEGRE ARS



- 27 -
AM=E 1
Pase 4 of 9
TRENSURB
EMPRESA DE TRENS URBANOS DE PORTO ALEGRE S. A.
CGC. 90176853000 1-56
Pag. 8 - Paragrafo 4.04
Ap6s conclusao dos trabalhos de modificagao   do
perfil de velocidade em julho de 1987 a veloclda
de media aumentou de 41 km/h para 46 km/h.
0 tempo de viagem entre Mercado e Sapucala   foi
reduzido de 42 minutos para 35 minutos.
Com estas modificag6es, reduziu-se o nCuero   de
trens em operagao de 9 para 7 no horario   entre
pico, e de 14 para 12 no horario de pico matinal.
Sem alterar o "headway".   No pico da tarde  fo-
ram mantidos os 14 trens, a fim de aunentar    a
oferta diminuindo-se um pouco o "headway".
Pag. 8 - Paragrafo 4.05
Em 1987 a demanda media de dia util passou  para
115.000 pass./dia (periodo de Janeiro aagosto de
1987).   Pesquisa realizada no dia 28.09.87,  2'
feira, acusou uma quantidade total de 124.138pas
sageiros.
Pag. 10- Paragrafo 5.06
0 total de receitas apresentado no "Appraisal"e de
US$ 18,14 milhoes.
Pag. 10- Paragrafo 5.07
0 "Appraisal" previa a operagao em 1985, ccm um ni
vel de demanda de 260.000 pass./dia.
Os trens adquiridos (25 TUE's), emfbora -calculados
com base nessa demanda (26C.000 pass./dia), nao teriam con-
dig8es de atende-la, visto que, seriam necessarios 33(TUE's
(vide explicagao da pig. 81 do RCP-TRENSURB).
Pag. 13- Paragrafo 6.08
As restrigoes de uso do automovel foram procedidas
somente junto as estaq6es Rodoviaria e Mercado.
RUA ERNESTO NEUGEIAUER, 196 - FONE PAUX (06121434111 - PORTO ALEGRE * RS



-28 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 9
t G ~rRENSURil
, EMRESA D TRENS UNRANOS DE PORTO ALEGRE S. A.
COC. w0710630loao s
Pa8. 13- Paragrafo 7.05
A TRENSURB entende que o numero de pessoal nao es-
ta elevado, principalmorite, porque se ressente de   profis-
sionais na area de rranutengao e opera9ao.
TABELA 3
Apresentamos, em. anexo, a tabela 3, com dados   de  !
1986 devidamente corrigidos, tomando como referencia o rela
t6rio encaminhado pela TRENSURB.   Informamos, tambem, numa
terceira coluna, os dados referentes ao periodo de  Janeiro
a setembro de 1987.
-MAPA
Foram executadas algumas observagoes na copia ane-
xa,
RUA ERNESTO NEUGESAUER, 1965 * FONF PABX (0512 434111 - PORTO ALEGRE - RS
tJ :2103.02



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 9
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER (ENGLISH VERSION)
T R E N S U R B
Our ref: OF-PRES-148/87                       Porto Alegre
October 16, 1987
Mr. Rene A. Ribi
Operations Evaluation Department
IBRD
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Ribi:
Subject: IBRD Loan 1839-BR
Project Completion Report
Thank you for the copy of the draft PCR prepared by the Bank, kindly
forwarded for our perusal. As our project team members have now examined it,
their comments are attached, together with a copy of the study on tariffs in
the north corridor of Porto Alegre Metropolitan Region. These comments are
designed to supplement a number of the points the Bank makes in the Report and
to update operating figures with information on the period up to August 1987.
This probably brings to a close the series of reports and
commentaries exchanged between us in correspondence and in the course of
successive Bank missions over the period Loan 1839-BR has been in effect,
although we would of course be happy to provide any further information the
Bank may require.
We shall look forward to receiving a copy of the final version of
the PCR.
Yours, etc.
/s/
M. de Castro Serafini, Jr.
Managing Director



-30 -
ANNEX 1
(-2-)                         Page 7 of9
Comments on draft Project CompletIon Report
dated September 11. 1987
Page 2, para. 2.02
The assumption suggested by the consultants refers to mode transfer
by 10X of automobile and 50X of bus passengers.
Page 2, para. 2.04
The project objectives were land-use development in the north-south
corridor of the metropolitan region.
Page 3, para. 3.02
In Table 1:
-    the figures listed are in millions of dollars and therefore do not
correspond with the heading;
-    the correct figure for Item 2 (Train Units) is US$89,370,000;
-    the correct figure for Item 1 (Superstructure) is US$10,530,000;
-    the figure produced by the January 1983 review continues to be
US$159,000,000.
Page 4, para. 3.03
Ticket vending machines were not purchased.
Page 7, para. 3.15
The studies commissioned from the consulting firm SAPSA were on
Phase II feasibility, re-routing of bus lines, and satellite parking areas.
Although the first two were completed only up to the draft report stage, the
report on the third was presented in final version. The contract for the
study on tariffs was not awarded to this firm (actually the successful
bidder), since its financial difficulties had prevented it from submitting
final reports in the two instances mentioned.
The tariff study was instead carried out by GEIPOT, with support
from CBTU and TRENSURB. The report in final version, presented to us in
September 1987, was handed to the Bank's October 5-6 mission team.
Page 7, para. 3.16
Two further studies, both conducted jointly by TRANSPLAN and
Bourschied and completed in 1982, dealt with the development of commercial and
service areas adjacent to stations and policy restricting automobile use.



-31 -
ANNEX I
(  3)                         Page 8 of9
The PCR does not mention che 1982 study conducted by METROPLAN on
urban development along the corridor served by the metropolitan railway.
Clarification of it is provided in the completion report drawn up by TRENSURB.
Page 7, para. 4.01
-    TRENSURB is currently operating 17.5 hours a day, from 5:30 a.m.
till 11:00 p.m.;
-    in our view, although fewer trains are run than projected in the
Appraisal Report, there is a good service level consistent with
demand.
Page 8, para. 4.04
After completion in July 1987 of the works to improve speed
performe-ce, mean velocity increased from 41 to 46 km/hour and travel time
between Mercado and Sapucaia dropped from 42 to 35 minutes. This allowed a
reduction in the number of trains operated during non-rush hours from nine to
seven, and during the morning rush hour from 14 to 12. without loss of
headway. Durirng the evening rush period, 14 units are still run, so that
there is increased service but a slight loss of headway.
Page 8, para. 4.05
In 1987, mean demand per business day rose to 115,000 passengers/day
(for the period January-August). A survey carried out on September 28, a
Monday, showed a total of 124,138 passengers.
Page 10, para. 5.06
The total estimated revenue figure given in the Appraisal Report was
US$18.14 million.
Page 10, para. 5.07
The Appraisal Report expected the system to have to meet an
operating demand figure of 260,000 passengers/day in 1985. [It was estimated
that] the number of trains purchased (25 TUE's), although geared to that
figure, would not be large enough to meet it, and that the right number of
TUE's would actually be 33. (For explanation, refer to page 81 of TRENSURB
PCR.)
Page 13, para. 6.08
Restrictions on automobile use were introduced only in the vicinity
of the Rodoviaria and Mercado stations.
Page 13, para. 7.05
TRENSURB takes the view that the number of staff is not high, mainly
because of the shortage of professionals in the maintenance and operations
sphere.



- 32 -
ANNEX I
(4)                           Page 9 of 9
Table 3
We attach a version of Table 3 showing 1986 data corrected as per
the report forwarded by TRENSURB. In addition, a third column provides data
for the period January-September 1987.
Ma
A number of comments have been made directly on the attached copy of
the map.



-  33-                                        ANNEX 1
Tabl*
- Xo  TRENSURB
EMPRESA DE TRENS VRSANOS DE PORTO ALEGRE S. A.
CGC. 90976853/000156-
PROJECT COULPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOUND URBN TRANSPORT PROJECT (WAN 1839-BR)
OPERATING STATISTICS                                           ; 3
AI'I'IAI:A L              A"' IIJAL              ACTUAL ( 2)
1. TRAIN OP'ERATIONS                                     (T MATE                   14861                    (19871
A. General Information
Origin                                        M'-n Irn   StntloiF Mrr'ado  Station   Merefao
Destination                                   S IpUe i1i                         nnpueoia             Sapucals
Route Length                                  :.1  ki '                         7fi.7 kim             26.7 km
Average train speed                           4? kn/br                           41 km/hr             46 km/hr
Opereting day                                 IN hore                           1i7 tioura 30 min    17 horao 30 gin
Average operating days prr yrar               14no .Igyx                         1113) days           300 die
Unit train                                    4 '-in                             4 en1ra              4 Cerra:
Unit train passenger rnpnrtIy                 1,2(1U                             1 u18                1080 (6 psea/rn')
Unit train energy consumption                 62.4 wntt/lhr                     64.7 uatt/hr          68.5 wat/hr (86)
per gross ton-km
B. Passeiger Traffic (per dny)                   260.00(1                          iw13.00               11.000
:  Number of Trains
Peak hour                                     II                                 10                   10
Off-pS k hour                                 4                                                       S
D. Headuay Between Trains (minutes)
Peak hour                                                                       r,                    6
Mid-peak hour                                 h.f                                1>                   12
Oft-peak hour                                15.o                                17                   12
E. Fleet Requirements (unit trains)
Average peak hour                             ??                                 17                   ll
In repair/mainterinac                                                           87
Total                                         pr,                                75                   25
Avalability                                  fi,%                              7(0%                  72%
F. Personnel Requiremernts (starf members)
Directors                                     q                                  17                   12
Managers                                      I(                                 22                   23
Supervisors                                   1                                  2828
Drivers and inspectors                        -rl                                                      110
Adminlitration                                f.0 7'8                                                  319
Statton Staff                                                                    4rq                  438
Workshops                                      ;^94                                                    347
Track Maintenace                                                                 an                    77
Total                                         t IjI94 1/                                               1.354
Operating Statistics
Number of daily train tripes                  1:17194
Number of dolly unit traini trips                                                197                   194
Daily train-km                                4S.4 5.lfiS                                              5165
Daily unit train-km                          (6.'0?                              ' 17168               5.165
Daily gross ton-k1 (100)                  I1176                                                         .140
1/ T ius figure ccimpares with a  total of 1,790 staff reciorwended by the
prmject consultant.
The appraisal nuibers were considerably underestimatec.
Source: TRENSURB
March 1987
(2) Dados de Janeiro a setembro/1987
.  3 37     RUA ERNESTO NEUGEBAUER, 1985 - FONE PABX (05121434111 -PORTO ALEGRE.
1437.03.0037



\   \   fe~P~.eIeCae,asDSoI  5-.-              ..~     SANTA
TI~               SOT
NOVHAMBURGO-r4.
INDUTRIAL - k<AM9L7 DOSUL
4              'I~~~~~~~~~ 
FEN~CYn4&7   i    Q   /                                 -~--~BRRZIL
7e5SDc~~~~~~/                       .ZO EOPLD                  SEON    URARTRNSOR   POJC
kNDST,A 3 ~,39.5                         O 
R0!lwa St00 on-Po5 
~~. RIO DO SINOS- kmA 35in.8po on  AIin,tato  0d,
SAPUAA-O .2.
LEOPOLDO                   Porto Alegre~Naiona MeRoposliatn Area                    ea
UR -km 24 7                             St~~--- --    assene Roads       Yur<re -0Boundarie
ST-I - kmaiaySl2o2- roe   n
*'~~~0 ~~  \LUSAP-CAk           - i, 26
MU ASTHIUS -kmH 24  SkteRad -1nu'aBonare
!PDi-  /'                     -~~~~~~~~~ .      9 ~~~KILOMETERS        4__   _ _ _  _ _ _ _  __ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _
ESTEI O
PETROBRAS - kinni 19.5
AO LUIS -k Im 8.1
C- ~6 N t~3    MATHIAS VELHO - km l6 2                                                         -                             A.--
CA OA .                                                             KIOATPR                                  --r.1A        2
SA ATLIMA-k. 18.1
/7                  T. S.,        ~         So.   0
CA ERAOPORTO 14    kmes-S1
A  APOS - k. /4                                     1                        I 
sAo PEDRO - kM 3.0                                                1-    ~--
RTO ALEGRE~~~~~~~~1-    LePi~j 
RCADO ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ 9                        2                            0    - -km 
T.                          0,-



