Document of                  FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2774-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT (PORTO ALEGRE) PROJECT
April 17, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979        March 7, 1980
Currency Unit       -      Cruzeiro (Cr$)           (Cr$)
US$1                -      Cr$26.85                 46.60
Cr$1                -      US$0.037                  0.021
ACRONYMS
CIP        -  Conselho Interministerial de Precos (Interministerial Price
Council)
CNDU       -  Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Council on Urban Development)
CNPU       -  Commissao Nacional de Politica Urbana e Regioes Metropolitanas
(National Commission on Metropolitan Regions and Urban Policy)
DNER       -  Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
(National Highway Department)
EBTU       -  Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos
(Brazilian Urban Transport Corporation)
FDTU       -  Fundo de Desenvolvimento de Transporte Urbano
(Urban Transport Development Fund)
FNDU       -  Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Urban Development Fund)
GEIPOT     -  Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transporte
(National Brazilian Transport Planning Agency)
METROPLAN  -  Fundacao Metropolitana de Planejamento
(Metropolitan Planning Agency)
MRPA       -  Regiao Metropolitana de Porto Alegre
(Metropolitan Region of Porto Alegre)
NEP        -  Nucleo Executivo do Projeto (Project Implementation Office)
NMTU       -  Nucleo Metropolitano de Transportes Urbano
i             (Agency for the Coordination and Regulation of Transport
Services in MRPA)
1PV        -  Net Present Value
ORTN's     -  Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesoro Nacional
(Adjustable National Treasury Bonds)
PME        -  Programa de Mobilizacao de Energia
(Energy Mobilization Program)
RFFSA      -  Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A.
(Federal Railway Company)
SEPLAN     -  Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Secretariat of Planning of the Presidency of the Republic)
TRENSURB   -  Empresa de Trens Urbanos de Porto Alegre (Porto Alegre
Metropolitan Rail Mass Transit Company)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZ IL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT (PORTO ALEGRE) PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiary:        Porto Alegre Metropolitan Rail Mass Transit Company
(TRENSURB)
Amount:             US$159 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 8.25% per annum.
Relending Terms:    Repayment in 12 years commencing after three years of
operation of the train service at 5% per annum on the
indexed principal. The exchange risk would be borne by
the federal government.
Project
Description;      The project provides for the construction of a surface
suburban rail mass transit system with about 25 electric
unit trains between the central business area of the city
of Porto Alegre, the capital of the southern state of Rio
Grande do Sul, and the town of Sapucaia, 26.7 kms to the
north. The system would have 14 stations spaced approxi-
mately every 2 kms, and would have a capacity of 48,000
passengers per hour in each direction. The benefits of
the project would mainly accrue to the urban poor, many
of whom live on the periphery of the metropolitan area,
providing them with more rapid access to employment
centers and improving the urban environment in which they
live. The project would save on vehicle operating costs
including fuel, reduce travel time, and reduce air and
noise pollution by achieving a more efficient modal dis-
tribution of traffic and use of all transport facilities
in the area of influence of the railway. It would contri-
bute to the development of selected employment growth
poles along the north-south corridor. The project involves
the establishment of the company, TRENSURB, which was
recently created to own and operate the system on a
commercial basis without government operating subsidies.
The project involves the risks associated with the intro-
duction of new institutional and policy arrangements. To
minimize these risks agreements with all institutions
involved have been obtained specifying the obligations of
each and technical assistance would be provided to assist
the institutions in fulfilling their roles.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
--US$ Million Equivalent---
Local     Foreign      Total
Track infrastructure                      9.9        1.4         11.3
Track superstructure                     15.0       10.4        25.4
Pedestrian and vehicle over/under
passes                                 23.0       3.5         26.5
Stations                                 11.8        5.4        17.2
Administration and maintenance
depot buildings                         7.5         .6         8.1
Maintenance depot equipment                 .2       1.8          2.0
Permanent way maintenance equipment         -         .3           .3
Telecommunications                        1.5        2.6         4.1
Signaling                                 2.4        6.9         9.3
Electrification                           3.3        9.4         12.7
Satellite car parking                     2.5         .6         3.1
Expropriation                            19.2          -         19.2
Unit trains                              16.8       67.2        84.0
Spare parts,                              1.3        5.4         6.7
Technical assistance                      1.2        1.7        -2.9
Total Baseline Costs               115.6     117.2        232.8
Physical contingencies                    1.0         .4          1.4
Price contingencies                      37.2       41.4        78,6
Total Project Costs                153.8     159.0        312.8
Financing Plan:
US$ Million Equivalent       x
Government                       153.8               49.2
IBRD                            159.0                50.8
312.8              100.0
Estimated Disbursements:
-------US$ Million Equivalent--------
Bank FY         1981    1982    1983      1984    1985
Annual           0.1    26.6    63.4      68.5      0.4
Cumulative       0.1    26.7    90.1    158.6   159.0
Rate of Return:              24%
Appraisal Report:            Report No. 2759-BR, dated April 17, 1980



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOr A SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT (PORTO ALEGRE) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan of the equivalent of US$159 million to the Federative Republic of Brazil
to help finance an urban transport project in the metropolitan region of Porto
Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
3 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum. Proceeds of the loan would
be relent by the Brazilian Urban Transport Corporation (EBTU), a federal
government enterprise, to the Porto Alegre Metropolitan Rail Mass Transit
Company (TRENSURB) at 5% per annum with principal subject to monetary correction
in accordance with changes in the national treasury bond index. The relent
funds would be amortized over a period of 12 years with payments beginning
after the first three years of operation of TRENSURB. Payments due to the Bank
but not yet collected from TRENSURB and any foreign exchange risk, would be met
from the general resources of EBTU.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on that
report and on subsequent information.
3.        The present Government, headed by General Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. During its
first year it has had to grapple with accelerating inflation and a deterior-
ating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the new
government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence
on imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports.
Success on these fronts is crucial both to the solution of the inflation and
balance-of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of
living standards and a better income distribution.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP
rose at a real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising
13% per annum and agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased at more than 7%
per year. This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, and there
also occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although
income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that most
Brazilians did share in the absolute improvement of living standards that
1/   This part is reprinted from the corresponding part of the President's
Report for the Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(No. P-2695-BR, dated March 10, 1980).



-2 -
was taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth
of public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,
the inflow of foreign capital and technology, and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports. The total external debt (public and
private) increased over this period from US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion,
but much of this accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0.2 billion to US$6.4 billion.
5.        One by-product of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum. Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum needs must be imported. Thus,
as a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports rose
from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports also
swelled by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current
account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or
7% of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the
suddenly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic
problems of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.        Brazil's capacity to manage the 1973-74 oil crisis was enhanced
by its strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of
its manufactured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets,
combined with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and
the opportunities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import
substitution. Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high
national growth expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the autho-
rities were reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted
instead toward increasing control over imports, which were held approximately
constant in nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort,
accomplished through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a
positive merchandise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current
account deficit was reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged
7.6% per year between 1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.        By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the autho-
rities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained around 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional inter-
national reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.
8.        The rate of GDP growth rebounded to 6.3% in 1978, notwithstanding
a 2% decline in agricultural output caused by a serious drought in southern
Brazil. The loss of food production cost the economy an estimated US$1.5
billion in foreign exchange. Hence, despite a 36% nominal increase in manu-
factured and semi-processed exports, total merchandise exports rose only 3.5%,
compared to a 7.7% increase in merchandise imports. The contraction of
agricultural output and rapid buildup of international reserves contributed to
price pressures, maintaining inflation at about 40% for the third consecutive
year.



- 3 -
9.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 9% over the previous year. Agricultural output
was again severely affected by a combination of droughts, floods, and frost
but showed some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP
growth was 6-7%, roughly matching the preceding year. High demand, the poor
harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in a rapid acceleration of infla-
tion in 1979. Inflation for the year exceeded 75%, the highest rate since
1964.
10.       Increased petroleum prices, the two consecutive bad harvests, and
a sharp rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to the progressive
deterioration of Brazil's balance of payments in 1978 and 1979. Despite the
continued rapid growth of manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance
fell from a small surplus in 1977 to a US$0.4 billion deficit in 1978 and an
estimated US$2.3 billion deficit in 1979. The cost of fuel imports alone
increased almost US$2 billion, or 40%, from 1978 to 1979. The jump in LIBOR
costs, to which most of Brazil's financial credits are tied, contributed to
raising gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to nearly
US$5 billion in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from
US$5.9 billion to US$8.5 billion, or from 3.0 to 3.7% of GDP.
11.       With amortization payments totalling about US$5.8 billion, external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$14.3 billion. Of this amount,
approximately US$3.0 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another
US$1.0 billion was provided by net direct foreign investments. Gross and
net foreign borrowings in 1979, including bond issues, therefore totaled about
US$10.3 billion and US$4.5 billion, respectively, compared to US$13.7 billion
and US$8.5 billion in 1978. No difficulties were encountered in attracting
the necessary credits, and the improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and
maturities available to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought
international reserves to about US$8.9 billion at the end of 1979, or equiv-
alent to about 5-1/2 months of goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross
medium- and long-term debt rose to around US$48 billion, or 21% of GDP.
12.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success, and a new
package of measures was decreed in December. The most important of these
were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro, accompanied by the elimination of
export subsidies and the prior deposit requirement on imports and the imposi-
tion of a temporary export tax on primary products; increased restrictions
on public enterprise investments, imports and borrowing; and a modification
of administered credit programs which is intended to reduce subsidies.
Poverty Programs
13.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts towards
the relief of poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of
areas. Coverage of the social security program, for example, has been expanded
and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population



- 4 -
is now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter
system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible
to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is
almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The
urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2 million
loans have been made by the National Housing Bank since 1964 for housing.
A sites and services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor
more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to the
extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some 6 million
households comprising about 30 million people have been connected to public
water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers
who receive such services from 60% to 75%. Efforts have also been made to
attack the poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
14.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated, and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil comapny. Investments have also been
undertaken to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to
initiate nuclear power production, and to substitute alcohol for gasoline for
automotive use, and efforts are being made to induce energy conservation.
The results, however, have thus far been limited. With oil expected to
constituite US$9-10 billion (nearly half of Brazil's merchandise imports) in
1980, as compared to US$700 million (11%) in 1973, the trade-off between
growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal
preoccupation of economic decision makers.
15.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures noted
above, a number of important institutional reforms were set in motion in 1979
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. These include:
the improvement of information flows and administrative control in the public
sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies and
public enterprises, incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidized credit programs formerly handled outside the budget through the
Central Bank, and reduced earmarking of public revenues. Currently under
consideration are the elimination of the development banking responsibilities
of the Central Bank, the abolition of the Bank of Brazil's money-creating
power, and a far-reaching reduction of fiscal incentives.
16.       The December devaluation of the cruzeiro and the accompanying trade
liberalization are intended to promote more efficient resource allocation,
favorable to both export growth and efficient import substitution. Toward
this end also, the domestic prices of agricultural commodities have been freed,
and a general reduction and liberalization of the tariff structure is under
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report", dated October 1979.



review. Although public investments may be constrained by reduced resource
availabilities over the next several years, priority attention will continue
to be given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture and
major import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5-6% per year in 1980-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-78. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a declining current account deficit in relation to GDP and
an approximately constant debt service ratio. These projections are highly
sensitive, however, to petroleum prices, LIBOR rates, and the continued growth
of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high
sbare of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulnerable to
external events than it has been for many years, and this situation may be
expected to persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast uptrend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's resource
balance is expected to remain negative though improving through 1985. Interest
payments on its large debt will rise rapidly throughout the period resulting
in a continuing current account deficit on the order of US$11-13 billion. As
a proportion of GDP the current account deficit is projected to peak at 4.3%
in 1980, falling gradually to about 2.4% by 1985.
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$11 billion in 1980 and remain in the range of US$10-13 billion
throughout the first half of the decade. To achieve this, annual gross
borrowings would have to grow from US$19 billion to almost US$27 billion
during the period. As a consequence, the net debt service ratio 1/ would peak
in 1980 at 68% and hold steady in the range of 60-63% through the remainder
of the period. Total outstanding medium- and long-term debt would reach 24%
of GDP in 1983 and decline slowly thereafter.
20.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and LIBOR rates was demonstrated in 1979 and will continue to make
projections subject to a wide range of error. The present scenario also
depends heavily on Brazil's continued ability to expand manufactured exports,
despite the slower anticipated growth of the world economy, and on its con-
tinued access to international capital. A major effort is under way to reduce
dependence on foreign petroleum but significant results will not be apparent
for several years. On the other hand, Brazil remains a dynamic, highly
diversified, and resilient economy, and recent policy measures should greatly
strengthen the ability of the economic authorities to adjust to circumstances
as needed.
21.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process has been
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
1/   Including both public and private debt.



- 6 -
for efficient import substitution offered by its large domestic market. Never-
theless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of
domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt indicate that
the adjustment process is not yet complete. The Government recognizes the
need for careful demand management and for selectivity in its investment
policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import substitution,
employment creation, and poverty alleviation. The task of economic management
will not be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust
to changing circumstances. Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979,
Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing.
PART IT - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By February 29, 1980 the Bank had made 91 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$4,469.4 million, of which 46 were not yet fully disbursed. During
FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year, reaching US$202
million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in FY78, and US$294.9
million in FY79. Disbursements for the first half of FY80 amounted to US$170
million and are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of February 29, 1980 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY75-FY79 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling
IJS$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in FY77, seven
loans totalling US$425 million. In FY78, nine loans t6talling US$705 million
were made. In FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million were made. So far
in FY80, three loans totalling US$302 million have been approved: a US$58
million loan for an industrial pollution control project for Sao Paulo, a
US$130 million loan for a water supply and sewerage project in the southern
states and US$114 million loan for a power project in the state of Rio Grande
do Sul. Work is relatively advanced on the preparation of a rural education
project for the Northeast, a power distribution project, a power transmission
project, and a second rural development project and a third water supply and
sewerage project in Minas Gerais. We expect to propose loans for these
projects in the near future.
24.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1978, amounting to nearly US$24.7 billion, the Bank held about 7.3%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 5.2%. When Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in
the total outstanding at the end of 1978 was 4.4%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.6%. By 1980, the Bank's share in total
outstanding debt is expected to rise very slightly, while its share in total
debt service falls to about 1.7%.
25.       As of February 29, 1980 IFC commitments to Brazil, totalled US$499.0
million, of which US$329.8 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$169.2 million, US$129.9 million represent loans and US$39.3
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of February 29, 1980 is
given in Annex II.



-7-
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest
income segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities
open to those groups, and to improve their living conditions. It is to
these ends that the proposed Second Urban Transport Project is mainly directed.
Loans for urban transport in five major cities, for water supply and sewerage
in the state of Minas Gerais, in Greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast, and in
the southern states, for sites and services and low-cost housing, for urban
development in eight medium-sized cities, and for pollution control in Sao
Paulo are improving the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Several projects to reach low-income groups in the urban
areas are in preparation, including a water supply and sewerage project for
Minas Gerais, a third urban transport project, and a pollution control project
for greater Rio de Janeiro. Previous loans for nutrition research and
development, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension
and polder construction and irrigation in the lower Sao Francisco river basin
as well as for integrated rural development in the States of Rio Grande do
Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia, Sergipe and Pernambuco were
designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas. Additional projects
designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas are in preparation,
including a second integrated rural development project in Minas Gerais and a
rural education project.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. Institution building is
an important objective of the proposed Second Urban Transport Project. Under
the proposed project provision is made for the full institutional development
of the recently created company which will own and operate a suburban railway
system on a commercial basis without government subsidies. There is also
provision for the institutional strengthening of other institutions involved
in urban transport at the federal, state and local level. Institution building
is an important objective of other Bank assistance in the urban sector,
including the First Urban Transport Project and previous water supply and
sewerage projects. Loans for rural development, railways, electric power,
industrial finance, highways, and agricultural research and extension, also
have important institution building objectives.
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,



-8-
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy.  The proposed Second Urban Transport Project is expected to result
in some savings in imported oil. Lending for the electric power sector also
supports this objective, since it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy,
and its development lessens the need for petroleum imports. Bank support of
fertilizer and petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute
imports with large-scale efficient domestic production and aid its balance-of-
payments position. Much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport
sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth
and economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is
helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity
which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply
of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets.  A similar
objective is being achieved through the VALESUL aluminum project which
uses Brazil's abundant hydroelectric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may have otherwise been provided. Eleven co-financing operations
for more than US$425 million have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and others are in preparation.
PART III - THE SECTOR
A.   Urban Structure and Trends
30.       Brazil's urban growth during the period 1950-1970 was quite rapid,
with the country's urban population (as measured by an international standard
definition of 20,000 or more inhabitants) increasing from 11 million in 1950
to 36 million in 1970, an increase of about 6% per annum compared with a
figure of about 3% per annum for the overall rate of population growth in
the country. The proportion of total population that is urbanized increased
from a level of only 16% in 1940 to nearly 40% in 1970. The highest growth
rates in the 1960s were recorded in medium-sized cities of between 100,000
and 200,000 inhabitants. During the 1970s, these trends are believed to have
continued, but definitive data will not be available until the 1980 census
has been tabulated.
31.       Geographically, urbanization has been unevenly distributed.  Growth
rates have been highest in the central western region, primarily because of
the growth of Belo Horizonte and Brasilia, and lowest in the northeast region



-9-
despite the rapid growth of its three metropolitan areas: Fortaleza, Recife
and Salvador. The dominance of the southeast (mainly Sao Paulo and Rio de
Janeiro) in the urban population has been offset somewhat by the growth of
cities in the central west and south, although the ratio of urban to total
population is still much higher in the southeast than in other regions.
Urban Policy
32.       Federal urban policy began to take shape in the early 1970s, and was
first directed at the large metropolitan areas.  In order to deal with the
problem of coordinating urban policy in these areas, the Government, in 1973,
established the administrative boundaries for eight metropolitan areas:
Belem, Fortaleza, Recife, Salvador, Belo Horizonte, Sao Paulo, Curitiba and
Porto Alegre. The ninth, Rio de Janeiro, was added in 1974. The states in
which these metropolitan areas are located have all established metropolitan
planning agencies, the responsibilities of which range from those which are
purely planning agencies (e.g. Porto Alegre) to those which also fund and
execute projects (e.g. Recife). The hierarchy of governments in Brazil goes
from the municipal to the state to the federal level. There is no metropolitan
government as such, which sometimes makes coordination among the municipalities
difficult.
33.       A national urban policy was initiated in the Second National Develop-
ment Plan which covered the period 1975 to 1979. The urban development
strategy contained in that plan was as follows:
(a) to consolidate the system of metropolitan areas and introduce
measures to prevent the additional concentration of demographic
and economic growth in the southeast region, particularly
in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo;
(b) to encourage the development of medium-sized cities in all
regions; and
(c) to encourage the development of towns in the interior.
Overall, federal government actions have been consistent with these objectives
regarding the pattern of urbanization. Nevertheless, despite these efforts,
the large metropolitan areas continue to attract large numbers of migrants, a
trend which is expected to continue through most of the 1980s. The urban
strategy contained in the recently formulated Third National Development Plan
(1980-85) also promotes these objectives with somewhat greater emphasis on
agriculture to reduce the overall rate of urbanization.
34.       In 1974, the National Commission on Metropolitan Regions and Urban
Policy (CNPU) was set up as an interministerial agency to promote and coor-
dinate national urban development policy. The National Urban Development
Fund (FNDU) was created to finance urban development projects and the Urban
Transport Development Fund (FDTU) was established as a sub-account of FNDU to
specifically finance urban transport projects. The Brazilian Urban Transport
Corporation (EBTU) was established in 1975 to administer the FDTU.



- 10 -
35.       Following the change of government in March 1979, CNPU was terminated
and the new government created the National Council on Urban Development (CNDU).
The Ministries of Finance, Industry, Commerce, Transport and Interior are repres-
ented on the Council, together with the Secretary General of the Secretariat
of Planning of the Presidency of the Republic (SEPLAN) and the presidents of
the National Housing Bank (BNH) and EBTU. The Council is chaired by the
Minister of the Interior. CNDU has assumed the responsibilities of the former
CNPU and has recently defined the nation's urban policy objectives for the
period 1980-1985. One of CNDU's main tools to achieve the objective of
redirecting migration from the metropolitan areas to the secondary and smaller
cities, is the distribution of federal funds available for urban development
over the period 1980-1985. This allocation would be effected and monitored by
the urban executing agencies, namely EBTU, BNH and the National Department for
Sanitation (DNOS).
36.       Although CNDU is responsible for the overall coordination and
integration of urban policy, at present it plays only an advisory role. The
metropolitan areas send their master plans to CNDU only after approval by the
state. CNDU's role is essentially to review the various sector investment
items within the master plans in order to coordinate any possible involvement
of federal sector agencies.
Urban Transport
37.       During the past several years, Brazil's urban areas have experienced
large increases in the demand for transport services. In the nine metropolitan
regions, the number of daily passenger trips by all modes increased by 9% per
annum between 1968 and 1975. A large portion of the population growth in these
areas is explained by in-migration from the rural areas within the same state
and, in some cases, from neighboring states as well. This migrating population,
which is generally of low income, tends to locate on the periphery and non-
central parts of the metropolitan region, where housing is cheaper but where
transport services (including access to job market centers) as well as other
public services, are limited. In contrast, transport infrastructure tends
to be concentrated in those parts of the metropolitan region which are closest
to the central city and which link centers of employment with the higher and
middle income residential areas, where the principal mode of transport is the
private automobile. It is no coincidence that the transport infrastructure
serving these areas tends to be primarily road based, further encouraging the
use of private automobiles, normally to an extent well beyond the space
limitations of the central area, resulting in high economic and environmental
costs.
38.       This situation is reflected in the usage and characteristics of
the principal urban transport modes of bus and automobile. The users of the
former are largely the poor, who travel longer commuting distances to work from
areas that are not particularly well served by public transport (bus or other
modes). The users of the latter are essentially high or middle income people
traveling shorter commuting distances on roads for whose limited space buses



- 11 -
must compete with the automobile. In the last few years, however, bus services
in certain corridors in some urban areas have been given priority through the
introduction of exclusive bus lanes. This approach is an important part of
the First Urban Transport Project (Loan No. 1563-BR). However, in Brazil,
as in many other countries, exclusive bus lanes are only beginning to be
introduced.
39.       Urban rail transport is a significant mode of transport only in Rio
de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, where each system carries about 500,000 passengers
daily. Very limited suburban railway services also exist in Belo Horizonte,
Salvador and Recife. The service in Porto Alegre is virtually non-existent
with only two trains daily in each direction on a deteriorated track system.
40.        In the nine metropolitan regions and the federal district of
Brasilia, buses account for about 60% of total daily trips, autos 35% and
rail 5%. While the bulk of demand is carried by buses, its share of traffic
has been falling at the expense of the private car. Moreover, in terms of
the number and composition of vehicles during the peak period, which determines
road capacity, cars in many urban corridors represent as much as 75% of the
total number of vehicles on the road despite the fact that they may account
for only 30% of the total passengers carried. Since 1965, the automobile
fleet has grown at an average rate of 11% per annum. In 1975, private vehicle
ownership in the nine metropolitan regions reached 2.3 million vehicles,
resulting in an average motorization rate of 80 automobiles per 1,000
inhabitants.
Urban Transport Institutions
41.       Federal government involvement in urban transport is accomplished
directly through EBTU and indirectly through the government's support to the
federal railway (RFFSA) and the Federal Highway Department (DNER), both of
which, to some extent, invest in urban transport projects. However, invest-
ments of this type by RFFSA and DNER are expected to decrease because the
present policy is to channel federal spending in this sector through EBTU.
42.       EBTU was established in November 1975.  It is a federal government-
owned enterprise under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport with
administrative and financial autonomy, independent juridical status and its
own assets and liabilities. EBTU is comprised of directorates for administra-
tion, finance and budgeting, operations and technical matters. The president
is the chief executive officer who reports to the Board of Managing Directors
and an Administrative Council. EBTU's basic function is to promote national
urban transport policies through its support of certain projects and programs.
To finance its expenditures, EBTU draws its resources from the Urban Transport
Development Fund (FDTU) and the Energy Mobilization Program (PME). The FDTU
is derived from vehicle registration and fuel taxes. The PME is derived from
a surtax on imported crude oil and the vehicle registration tax.
43.       During the first three years of its existence (1976-1978), EBTU
channeled an estimated US$884.6 million (1979 prices) to various urban trans-
port projects. EBTU has a staff of 300 to administer this program, mainly
architects and engineers. To strengthen its project selection work, consul-
tants have been engaged under the Bank's First Urban Transport Project. These



- 12 -
consultants are assisting EBTU's Technical Directorate, concentrating on
economic analysis. EBTU is also retaining consultants to strengthen its
accounting and budgeting procedures.
Future Urban Transport Investment Plans
44.       EBTU's National Urban Transport Investment Plan for the next three
years (1980-1982), which includes the proposed project, was recently formulated
by the Ministry of Transport and includes the resources from PME. EBTU's
annual budget is based on this plan and requires the approval of SEPLAN. The
investment plan includes items which EBTU had already identified and was in
the process of preparing plus some new items introduced by the Ministry of
Transport, primarily in the urban rail subsector which are expected to save
fuel. The modal distribution of expenditures under the plan is as follows:
suburban railways in metropolitan areas, 59%; urban roads including buses,
25%; trolley buses where these already exist, 11%; and marine passenger
ferries, 5%. The average expenditure planned for the period 1980-82 is $883
million.   The plan's overall objective is conservation of energy through
heavier reliance on public transport. Benefit-cost analyses have been
carried out for a few projects, one of which is the proposed project for
Porto Alegre. It is likely that there will be some further changes in
EBTU's investment plan once all the technical and economic studies on the
various proposed projects are completed. The Government intends to continue
its dialogue with the Bank on investment in the urban transport sector.
Under the First Urban Transport Project, EBTU is preparing economic and
technical criteria for the selection of projects. EBTU has prepared an
investment policy statement, which has been agreed with the Bank. The
Government would consult with the Bank before introducing substantive changes
in its policy statement (Sections 1.01 and 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
At least once per year the Government would provide the Bank with its National
Urban Transport Investment Plan (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector
45.       The Bank's involvement in Brazil's urban sector focuses on two main
objectives: the provision of needed services and employment opportunities
for the urban poor, and the strengthening of the planning and implementation
capacity of sectoral institutions at the federal and local level. Since
1970, the Bank has been participating in the financing of a series of
water supply and sewerage projects through BNH in the states of Minas Gerais,
Pernambuco, Bahia, Ceara, Parana, Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do Sul, and in
Greater Sao Paulo. The First Urban Transport Project in five metropolitan
areas including Porto Alegre was approved in June 1978 and is under execution.
A Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project in Greater Sao Paulo, Bahia
and Pernambuco was approved in January 1979 and is also under execution. The
Medium-Sized Cities Project, approved in May 1979, contains subprojects in
eight cities. Among the urban projects now under preparation are a third



- 13 -
water supply and sewerage project for the state of Minas Gerais, a multi-state
water supply and sewerage project, an integrated urban development project
and a third urban transport project. A summary table of Bank projects in the
urban sector is given below:
BANK LOANS TO BRAZIL IN THE URBAN SECTOR
Year    Loan No.       Amount          Borrower                  Purpose
(US$ million)
1971   757-BR          22.0        City Water Company      Sao Paulo water distri-
bution and storage.
1971   758-BR          12.0       City Sewerage Company  Sao Paulo sewege col-
lection and disposal.
1974   1009-BR         36.0       BNH                      Water supply and
sewerage in the state
of Minas Gerais.
1976   1309-BR         40.0       BNH                      Water supply and
sewerage in the state
of Minas Gerais.
1978   1525-BR        110.0       BNH                      Sewage collection and
disposal in the city of
Sao Paulo.
1978   1563-BR         88.0       Federal Government       Urban transport improve-
ments in five metro-
politan areas.
1979   1654-BR         93.0       BNH                      Sites and services and
low cost housing in the
cities of Recife, Salvador
and Sao Paulo.
1979   1656-BR        100.0       BNH                      Water supply and sewerage
in the states of Bahia,
Ceara and Pernambuco.
1979   1729-BR         70.0       Federal Government       Urban development in
eight medium-sized cities.
1980   1823-BR        130.0       BNH                      Water supply and sewerage
in the states of Parana,
Santa Catarina and Rio
Grande do Sul.
Total                 701.0



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The project was designed by the government's National Transport
Planning Agency (GEIPOT). Some modifications were introduced after review by
the Bank. The project was appraised in September/October 1979. Negotiations
took place in Washington from March 10-14, 1980. The Brazilian delegation
was led by Dr. Wando Borges, Secretary General of the Ministry of Transport.
A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Second Urban Transport Project"
(No. 2759-BR dated April 17, 1980) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A supplemental data sheet, including a timetable of key
events and a summary of special conditions, is presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives
47.       The principal objectives of the proposed project which would provide
a suburban rail mass transit system in the metropolitan region of Porto Alegre
are:
(a) to establish the recently created company, which will own,
manage and operate a suburban railway on a commercial basis
without operating subsidies;
(b)  to achieve a significantly more efficient modal distribution of
traffic and use of all transport facilities in the metropolitan
region's north-south corridor; and
(c) to promote the development of selected employment growth poles
in the north-south corridor near certain railway stations.
It is expected that the improved modal distribution of traffic would result
in reduced vehicle operating costs including fuel, reduced air and noise
pollution and reduced travel time. The project would also have desirable
distributional effects. Almost three-fourths of the total project benefits
are expected to accrue directly or indirectly to the low income group.
Project Description
48.       The proposed project entails the construction of a surface subur-
ban rail mass transit system using electric unit trains between the central
business area in Porto Alegre and the municipality of Sapucaia, 26.7 km to
the north (Map 14688). The line follows the same right-of-way as RFFSA's
existing obsolete railway line, except for a few deviations to improve
the new line's geometry and also to provide a 2.3 km access to the central
market in Porto Alegre where no railway right-of-way exists at present.
This project constitutes Phase I of a larger scheme which includes, in
Phase II, the stretch between Sapucaia and Novo Hamburgo (an additional
16 km). Detailed engineering for the entire 42.7 km has been completed by the



- 15 -
Brazilian Transport Planning Agency (GEIPOT). An economic and financial
feasibility study of Phase II is included in the proposed project. The major
items of the proposed project (Phase I) are: tracks, pedestrian under- and
over-passes, road and rail bridges, 14 stations, a train maintenance depot
and administration building, power substations and overhead wires, about
25 electric unit trains, fencing, automatic signaling, telecommunications,
satellite automobile parks near some stations, related civil works and tech-
nical assistance. The recently created rapid rail mass transit company
(TRENSURB) would be fully established to oversee construction of the railway
and to own and operate it (para. 54). Provision is also made to assist the'
recently created agency for the coordination and regulation of transport in
the Metropolitan Region of Porto Alegre (NMTU) to carry out its designated
functions. Also included is a parking restriction program to reduce the avail-
ability of day-term parking spaces in the central business district of Porto
Alegre, and thus promote use of the new mass transit system (Section 3.02 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Area of Influence
49.       The suburban railway system would traverse the Metropolitan Region
of Porto Alegre (MRPA) from north to south (Map 14688). MRPA covers a total
area of 5,718 sq km and is located at the head of an inland waterway which
runs parallel to the coast in the central part of the state of Rio Grande do
Sul, the southernmost state of the country. The principal area of influence
for the proposed project is the MRPA's north-south corridor comprised of ten
municipalities including Porto Alegre (where the line originates) and has a
population at present of 1.9 million. The line would also serve the region's
other four municipalities, although to a more limited extent, through car and
feeder bus connections. The total population of the MRPA is 2.38 million.
50.       MRPA represents over 25% of the State's total population; in 1940,
its share was only 13%. This relatively large growth of the MRPA is explained
by the high rate of migration, predominantly from the secondary centers and
small towns in the interior of the state and, to a lesser extent, from the
state of Santa Catarina to the north. Thus, while annual average rates of
population growth in the MRPA have been on the order of 4% since 1960 and
closer to 5% since the mid-1970s, migration has accounted for about 82% of
this increase, while natural population growth has accounted for only about
18%. The dominance of the MRPA within the state is also reflected in its
relative share of economic activity: in 1970, the MRPA accounted for almost
50% of all industrial production and 40% of total output in the state.
51.       MRPA's transport system consists essentially of roads.  A main
north-south trunk road, BR-116, centrally located in the corridor, connects
the southern- and northernmost municipalities of the region. This is a
four-lane divided highway with limited access and, throughout most of its
42 km, except near the city of Porto Alegre, has two service lanes on each
side to serve the local traffic. Several smaller two lane east-west roads
feed into BR-116 from both sides. In addition, an east-west trunk road,



- 16 -
BR-290, with four lanes, crosses BR-116 within the municipality of Porto Alegre
at the southern end of the region. The total route length of the primary road
system within the MRPA is about 400 km.
52.       An old meter gauge railway line parallels BR-116 between Porto
Alegre and Rio dos Sinos (39 km). The existing track is over 100 years old
and is beyond economical repair. The rolling stock consists of some 15
dilapidated wooden cars over 50 years old and two diesel locomotives.
RFFSA, which owns these assets, runs two commuter trains in each direction
and carries about 700 passengers daily.
53.       The dominant mode of travel within MRPA is bus.  Of a total of
1.95 million daily person trips by all modes in 1979, buses accounted for
1.3 million or 67%. Cars and taxis accounted for 27.5 and 1.6% of total
person trips, respectively. Despite the dominance of buses as a mode of
transport in the MRPA, cars represent on average about 50% of the total
vehicles on the road system; on some main roads, such as BR-116, the figure
is as high as 74%. Traffic on many sections of BR-116, has already reached
saturation levels resulting in high operating costs and long travel times
which are reflected in average bus speeds of 15-20 km per hour during the peak
period. Much of this congestion is due to the large number of automobiles on
the road. An exclusive bus express lane will soon be introduced on a section
of road within the municipality of Porto Alegre after some road resurfacing is
completed under the First Urban Transport Project. This action should help to
mitigate the problem somewhat, but, on this section and on the rest of the
road which serves the metropolitan area, high levels of congestion will remain
and become worse unless measures are taken to make the available corridor
capacity more efficient by reducing car usage and increasing public transport.
To accomplish this goal, in addition to the operational improvement provided
under the First Urban Transport Project, a major expansion of exclusively
public transport infrastructure will be required. It is in this context
that the proposed suburban rail project, designed to attract car and bus
users, has been selected over four other alternatives (para. 64). The state
highway department has studied the possibility of building a new highway in
the north-south corridor next to the right of way for the proposed suburban
railway. The government is not proceeding with the construction of this
highway at this time and there are no plans to do so. This project would
not be carried out unless a proper economic feasibility study, satisfactory to
the Bank, is carried out and shows that this project is economically justified
(Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). To ensure that other projects,
which might adversely affect the railway, are not approved without consultation
with the Bank, until December 31, 1988, EBTU would inform the Bank of any
proposed passenger transport related investments exceeding US$10 million in
the area of influence of the proposed suburban railway (Section 4.05 of the
Project Agreement).
Implementation
54.       To implement the proposed project, which is estimated to take three-
and-a-half years, a project implementing office (NEP), would be established
within TRENSURB (Section 3.01 of the draft Project Agreement). Appropriate
staffing of NEP would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.01 of the draft



- 17 -
Project Agreement). TRENSURB was created as a subsidiary of RFFSA with EBTU,
the state of Rio Grande do Sul and the municipality of Porto Alegre as minority
shareholders. The municipality of Porto Alegre is expected to join soon.
A schedule for a gradual shift in the percentage of the shareholdings
has been established so that by June 1983 TRENSURB will be independent of
RFFSA. By that date both RFFSA and EBTU would hold 39% of the shares, Rio
Grande do Sul 9%, the municipality of Porto Alegre 3%, and others the remainder
of 10%. Others might include the National Development Bank (BNDE) or other
municipalities in the Porto Alegre area. If at any time the balance of the
shares not held by RFFSA or EBTU are not taken up, RFFSA and EBTU would take
them up in equal proportion (Section 4.01 and Schedule 2 of the draft Project
Agreement). It is expected that TRENSURB would be fully operational by the
time the physical works are completed in mid-1984. Since the first order of
priority would be the commencement of the physical works, initially TRENSURB
would consist almost entirely of NEP with a few other personnel to handle the
administrative responsibilities of the new company until its full structure and
staffing are in place.
55.       Initial steps have already been taken toward the formation of NEP.
A qualified engineer has been chosen as the future head of NEP. In addition,
other engineers from GEIPOT, RFFSA and EBTU are working with him. RFFSA,
EBTU, GEIPOT and METROPLAN have been designated by the Minister of Transport
to provide NEP with the necessary technical services (Section 4.07 of the
draft Project Agreement). RFFSA would play a key role in carrying out
railway physical works. The new company's accounts, including those with
respect to the project, would be audited by independent external auditors
satisfactory to the Bank and these accounts would be sent to the Bank within
four months of the end of TRENSURB's fiscal year (Section 3.04 of the draft
Project Agreement). At the end of project implementation, NEP as such
would be disbanded, but it is likely that much of NEP staff would be incor-
porated into the technical department of the new company.
Technical Assistance
56.       The technical assistance program provides for the development of
TRENSURB and complementary policies and programs. Consultants would advise
TRENSURB with respect to staffing, training, organizational structure,
management, accounting, finances, and the implementation of such measures
(Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement and Schedule 2, para. E.1 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Consultants would study and make recommendations
on a program to limit automobile use in MRPA which would complement the
parking restrictions program. The program would be reviewed with the Bank and
thereafter the State would implement and monitor it (Section 2.02(a) and 4.04
of the draft Project Agreement and Schedule 2, para. E.2 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Consultants would also be retained by the State to identify
specific bus routes to be discontinued, and those to serve as feeder lines to
the railway line. These consultants would also make recommendations regarding
those bus companies which would be adversely affected by the suburban rail
service (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement and Schedule 2, para.
E.3 of the draft Loan Agreement). Consultants would be retained by METROPLAN
to identify appropriate commercial development at various locations along the



- 18 -
railway line and to make recommendations regarding the planning and organiza-
tion of such development (Section 2.02(c) of the draft Project Agreement and
Schedule 2, para. E.4 of the draft Loan Agreement). The State would retain
consultants to prepare a study of the levels and structure of all transport
tariffs in the Metropolitan Region of Porto Alegre, including charges for
satellite and other automobile parking and recommendations on how such tariffs
should be set (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement and Schedule 2,
para. E.6 of the draft Loan Agreement). Consultants, to be retained by TRENSURB,
would carry out a feasibility study of the possible extension of the project
train system from Sapucaia to Novo Hamburgo (proposed Phase II) (Section
2.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement and Schedule 2, para. E.5 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
TRENSURB Operations
57.       Total daily train passengers in 1985, a benchmark year indicative
of the first one or two years of operation of TRENSURB, is forecast at 261,000
passengers, growing to 386,000 passengers in 1990 and 586,000 passengers in
the year 2000. Of the 261,000 passengers forecast for 1985, about 21,400
passengers are expected to be diverted from cars and the rest from buses.
The car diversion figure is expected to reach about 72,500 passengers in 1990.
The maximum peak hour flow in 1985 is forecast at about 39,000 passengers of
which about 80% or 31,000 passengers are forecast to move in the principal
direction. This figure of peak hour traffic in the principal direction is
forecast to reach 46,000 passengers in 1990 and 70,000 passengers in 2000.
The practical design capacity of the system under the project is estimated at
48,000 passengers per hour in one direction, stretchable to 72,000 passengers
with some relatively small investments. Thus, sometime- in the early 1990's
some small changes in the system might be required, but otherwise the system
should be able to serve the demand quite efficiently through at least the
remainder of this century.
58.       During the initial years of operation, TRENSURB is expected to
run 11 trains per hour during the peak hours and four trains per hour during
the off-peak period. Train formations are planned to consist of eight cars
or two unit trains coupled together during the peak hours and four cars or
one unit train during the off-peak period. The average commercial speed of a
train which includes station stops, is expected to be about 42 km/hr. Thus,
with the new train service, it should take about 38 minutes to go from one end
of the line (Mercado Central, Porto Alegre) to the other (Sapucaia, km 26.7).
To run the operation during the first few years, it is estimated that some
634 employees would be required. An operating and staffing plan for the
initial years of train operations has been prepared and agreed with TRENSURB
(Section 3.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
59.       During the initial period of operation, total working costs are
estimated to be about CrS 2.66 per passenger.  After allowing for depreciation
on all fixed assets, total operating costs are estimated at Cr$ 4.82 per
passenger (at mid-1979 prices). Depreciation, personnel, material and energy
costs represent about 45%, 38%, 9% and 8% of the total operating costs,
respectively. At the level of traffic forecast for 1990, unit operating costs
faLl to about Cr$ 4.06 per passenger, indicating some modest economies of scale.



- 19 -
60.       An analysis of bus tariffs in the influence area of the train
indicates that TRENSURB ought to be able to charge a tariff that covers its
operating costs and, in addition, earns a modest return on invested capital
and still does not exceed the average bus tariff. TRENSURB would promptly, as
necessary, seek the authorization of the Interministerial Price Council (CIP)
to charge tariffs which would provide it with revenues sufficient to cover at
least all operating expenses including overhead costs, adequate maintenance
expenses, taxes, depreciation and interest. On the basis of a review to be
undertaken not less than every six months or whenever tariffs of passenger
services competitive with those of TRENSURB are adjusted, the Government would
authorize such adjustments in tariffs to permit TRENSURB to cover the above
operating expenses (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement and Sections 3.09
and 3.10 of the draft Project Agreement). However, if economic circumstances
do not permit TRENSURB to charge tariffs which cover its operating expenses,
the Government and TRENSURB will review the tariff level to be charged by
TRENSURB, and the Government will promptly inform the Bank of such circum-
stances and the tariff levels proposed. For the purpose of the financial
forecasts, based on mid-1979 prices, the rail tariff has been assumed to be
Cr$6 per passenger, a level consistent with TRENSURB's agreed tariff policy
and generally constrained by bus tariffs in the area of influence. Based
on this assumption, the return on revalued net fixed assets in 1985, 1990 and
2,000 is 1.5%, 4.3% and 8% respectively.
Cost Estimates and Financing
61.       The total project cost including contingencies is US$312.8 million.
The cost estimates for the proposed project are based on the GEIPOT engineering
design study of 1976, adjusted for changes suggested in-discussions with the
Bank and updated to January 1980. The cost of the technical assistance has
been estimated on the basis of 351 man-months of consulting services at an
average cost per man-month of about US$10,000 and US$6,000 for foreign and
local consultants, respectively. At constant (mid-1979) prices, the project's
cost is estimated at Cr$10 billion (US$232.8 million equivalent) with a
foreign exchange component of US$117.2 million or 50%. Taxes are included
in the estimates of local costs. To these estimates, price and physical
contingencies have been added. The physical and price contingencies taken
together represent about a 34% increase over the base year cost estimates.
The sources of finance for the proposed project would be: (i) the Bank loan
of US$159 million which would be onlent to the new company; and (ii) the
cash contributions of the shareholders of US$153.8 million which would be
made in exchange for equity shares in the new company.
62.       The Borrower of the proposed loan would be the Federative Republic
of Brazil. EBTU, as the financial agent for the Government, would onlend to
TRENSURB the equivalent of the Bank loan in cruzeiros. TRENSURB would
repay EBTU such principal amount with monetary correction in accordance with
the price index used to adjust treasury bonds (ORTN's) over a period of
12 years with payments beginning after the third full year of train operations
(Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The interest rate would be 5%
per annum which is the prevailing rate of interest charged by the National
Development Bank (BNDE) for similar projects in Brazil. As a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Loan Agreement, EBTU, on behalf of the borrower,
would enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the new company, which
includes the above conditions (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
TRENSURB would not enter into borrowings, other than the loan from EBTU,



- 20 -
before the fourth year of full operations, and then only if such borrowings
would not result in a debt service which is more than TRANSURB's average
annual net operating income plus depreciation for either the preceding two
years of operation or for a later 24 month period ended prior to the incurrence
of such debt service, whichever is greater (Section 3.07 of the draft Project
Agreement). The Bank would enter into a joint Project Agreement covering all
aspects of the project with EBTU, GEIPOT, RFFSA, the State of Rio Grande do
Sul, METROPLAN, and TRENSURB.
Procurement and Disbursements
63.       All items to be procured under the proposed loan would be subject
to international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
In bid evaluation, Brazilian manufacturers of equipment would be allowed a
preferential margin of 15% of the CIF cost of competing imports, or the rele-
vant prevailing level of customs duties, whichever is lower. The estimated
disbursement schedule for the proposed loan is based on the assumption that
the proposed loan would become effective by November 1980.
Economic Analysis
64.       For the economic analysis, five mutually exclusive project alterna-
tives were analyzed: (i) the removal of the existing tracks and the construc-
tion of an express busway in the present railway right-of-way; (ii) the
improvement of the existing antiquated diesel railway service; (iii) a rail
mass transit system (i.e., the proposed project); (iv) a light rail system;
and (v) a new road with a bus expressway. This analysis established the
superiority of the proposed project. The types of transport costs which
were compared for the benefit calculations include vehicle operating and
passenger travel time costs. That is, the costs for each alternative,
when subtracted from the costs in the base case (continuation of the present
sitution including presently committed changes in the transport system
including those being carried out under the First Urban Transport Project),
represent the savings or benefits associated with the project. All of the
mutually exclusive project alternatives which were examined have a positive
net present value (NPV). This result is not surprising in view of the fact
that without any of the project alternatives, the Region's only north-south
trunk road, BR-116, an already congested arterial (para 53), would become
completely saturated, and, as speeds diminished further, road transport costs
would rise steeply. A major increase in transport capacity in the corridor is
justified. The analysis shows that among the five alternatives, the rail mass
transit system, alternative (iii), is the preferred solution with an NPV of
Cr$ 7,070 million, which is about 34% higher than the next best solution,
alternative (i), the construction of new bus expressay in the present railway
right-of-way. The results of sensitivity tests show that the ordering of the
alternatives does not change with the most likely types and magnitudes of
change considered. Alternative (iii) clearly emerges as the most economical
solution. The rate of return for alternative (iii) is 24%, and the first year
rate of return is 11%, indicating that the proposed project is well justified
and that the starting date is optimal. The considerable spread between the
first year rate of return and the rate of return over the project's economic
life is explained by the fact that the benefits are quite substantial in the
later years as road transport costs in the base case relative to the project



- 21 -
situation build up quite rapidly as a result of increasing congestion on the
highway. The proposed project also has a desirable distributional impact.
Almost three-fourths of the total project benefits are expected to accrue
directly or indirectly to persons with an average income of about two minimum
salaries. At least 34% is expected to accrue directly to this group in the
form of less travel time.
65.       An analysis was made of the petroleum savings which are accounted
for in the benefits as part of the road vehicle operating cost savings. The
proposed project, when compared with the base case, would result in savings
in terms of constant mid-1979 US dollars of US$5.5 million (20.7 million
liters) in 1985, US$13.8 million (47.8 million liters) in 1990, and US$20.5
million (63.4 million liters) in the year 2000, valuing petroleum, conserva-
tively, at 1979 prices. These savings arise from the substitution of passenger
trips made by electric powered (hydrogeneration) unit trains for trips which
would otherwise be made by car or bus and from less congested (more fuel
efficient) traffic conditions for the vehicle fleet on the existing road
system.
Project Risk
66.       There are no unusual risks associated with the execution of the
physical works included in the proposed project. NEP within TRENSURB with
the technical support of RFFSA, GEIPOT, EBTU and METROPLAN should be able to
complete the project according to the agreed schedule which is realistic.
Significant delays are not expected. With respect to the institutional and
policy aspects of the project, which refer essentially to the operation of the
new suburban railway company in the context of the urban structure and trans-
port system of the metropolitan region, more caution is warranted. The
proposed project involves several new innovations in institutions and policies,
the adoption of a pricing principle that allows tariffs to cover operating
costs, a significant program of auto restraint measures, and the diversion of
a large number of car users to the railway which will have to be monitored
very closely. Therefore, there are risks inherent in new undertakings of this
kind. However, the Government shares the Bank's desire to have this project
succeed in the institutional and policy areas and thereby serve as a model for
the rest of the country. The agreements reached during negotiations, coupled
with the technical assistance program, have reduced the risks to an acceptable
level to justify the Bank's participation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Federative Republic
of Brazil and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the State of
Rio Grande do Sul, the Empresa de Trens Urbanos de Porto Alegre (TRENSURB),
the Fundacao Metropolitana de Planejamento (METROPLAN), the Rede Ferroviaria
Federal S.A. (RFFSA), the Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
(GEIPOT), and the Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos (EBTU), and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 22 -
68.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are the staffing of TRENSURB's
NEP, and the ratification of the onlending agreement.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 17, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-23-
ANNEX I
3.aIL - SOCLU. Ui0!CATORS DA1& SEt?T
AZ71                        WUSNIC8 G1OUP5 (ADJSTStD A   AGE5
LAND AILU (MOSAXD 50. IN-)                                                    -  OS erz  rsul)A
.OTAL     3     551t2.                                                   5481         SAll     Mm  821I6
ArUC0L?T0AL    2026.3                                  646T UfcU        CtOIOACC       ICOlil     INCOME
1980  lb    1970 A ESWIMATZ   lb      1C10        81           =U G uP I
Cn P      PItA (USS)                  320.0   50.0    1570.0               1124.4     1942.6       3075.3
EMG! CONSUMPTION P11 CIPItA
(U.LOGRS of CO&L Zlu'IVA     )     332.0        474.0     731.0           943.L      1646.7      2518.6
POPULATION AND  ITAL StA21SSICS
POPULATION I1I-TM  MILLIONS)         71.5        95.2     116.1
0148i1 POPULATIO  (PZWT Of TOTAL) 44.1           55.9      60.7.            5.3        51.2        12.1
POLSAfON PROJECTIONS
l!OPSAION IN TM  2000 (MILLIONS)                        200.0
STATIONARY popSSnON  (d.ONS)                           3  *1. 0
nI  StoaiOtR POFOpIAON is LEACIRD                      2075
POPULAPlOw Dus52n
PER s5. IDI.                        8.0        11.0      14.0            23.5        2S.2        33.5
PU SQ0. I1. AGUSCIL?AL  .*        44.0         49.0      57.0             80.5      100.5        91.3
pOPILAIlON AGE STlOUC2z (VERCENT)
0-14 "S.                          43.6         42.6      41.7            '0.9        35.4        33.3
15-64 20S.                         53.8         54.3      55.1            54.4        56.3        57.5
65 IS2. AMD ABOVE                   2.6          3.1       3.2             3.9         5.1         5.7
FOPULAION108 "OVM  RATE (PERCET)
TOTAL                               3.0         2.9       2.9              2.4        1.7         2.I
JUIUI                               5.5         4.8       4.5              3.7        3.0
CLUDC 3121YTI  Un      10 T5OsAND)   40.0        38.0      36.0             32.8       27.5        31.4
CRMU 014o2a LATE (?MU THOUSAND)      11.0         9.0       9.0              8.5        9.1         8.2
C0ss IZt0D0C'fOUN &AT                 2.6         2.6       2.4              2.4        1.8         1.9
1A6ILS PLAMhINC
4C17101.S. A1UAL (SOUSANOS)         ..       111.0     203.6
USERS (PCUCT Of H13MD W)             ..         1.6        ..             17..
POD 1OD NUT2tI20N
nDZx of rooo PRODUCTION
PJ  CAPTA (1969-71-00)            89.6       102.0     L20.0            99.4       102.0        98.7
PER CAIUA s37P11y O0
CALORIES (PrCUt OV
RtQCIXsKIYTS)                   102.0       104.0     105.0           107.0       120.8       112.7
OUI4UNS (GRAMS P?  DAY)           61.0         64.0      62.1            60.4        80.9        70.3
OF WsCas Ar   L AND  O3PLS       38.0        39.0      33.6             28.3       31.3
1111D (ACS  1L-4) MORYALIT RAE       U.0         10.0       9.0              6.7        5.1         2.5
VEAL7!
Llrg  ?WETANCT &T BIRT  (121)    57.0            61.0      62.0            63.6        65.6        68.7
INFAN T1OVAL7.LyIAX? (P3 E
10OUSAN5M)                             ..          ..        ..             76.1       45.5        20.8
ACCzss ro SAT% uATR CFZCUT 01
POpIATIONE)
TOTAL                                .         5.6.3     77.1            63.4        69.4        73.9
uNm                                  ..         .7       88.8            79.5        S5.1        94.6
AL                                   ..        29.0      56.8            38.6        43.0        64.6
ACCESS To ECRZTA D5IOSAL (PUCGU
Of POP!L0S410N)
TOTAL                                ..        59.9      64.8            5S.8        70.1
URBAN                                ..        86.1      83.7            77.8        88.3
MUAL                                 ..        26.5      31.7            24.5        33.2
POP0LA20IN PEr  mYSICI4           3600.0       1910.0    1650.0           1841.9     1343.2       981.8
?3020toN  PM (NURSING P0so5           ..       3220.0        ..           933.7       765.0       397.8
POPVLATION ?11 !OS7ITAL 3ro
TOTAL                             275.0       260.0     260.0           563.4       197.6       240.6
CRSAX                                ..          ..        ..           279.4       260.2
aUL                                  ..          ..        ..           L140.9     1055.0
ADMISSIONS PM HOSPITAL SLO             ..        18.0        ..            25.7        17.3        19.2
ROUSsING
AVERAGE SIZE Of BoOsOLD
TOtAL                               5.1         4.8       4.9             5.0         4.7
11                                   ..         4.6       4.7             4.8         4.4.
RURAL                               ..          5.2       5.3             5.3         5.1 
AVERAGE W-Mu&   0r 70SONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         1.1       1.1J2            1.3        1.1 
UR4N                                 ..         1.0       1.2L            1.3         1.2
xRCOL                                ..         1.2       1.2Lf            1.5        1.2
ACCESS 0 ELECTRICItY (PRCMNr
Of ODILLINCS )
TOTAL                              38.7        47.6      63.0            54.3        66.0
Am                                   ..        75.6      84.9            80.1       d.85. 
IURL                                *-         8.4      19.2            14.2



-24-
ANNEX I
b1RAZL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHZET
BRAZIL                    RIF*-NCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AqfIRAGZS
- fOST RECENT ESTIXATr) -
SAME        SAMlE    NEMT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPlIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIXATE /b      ElGION /c   GROUP /d   GROUP /c
EWCATION
ADJUSTED ENEOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 95.0        83.0      90.0           107.3      101.7       107.6
IALE                 97.0        83.0      89.0           109.1      110.0
FEMALE               93.0        83.0      90.0           107.4       92.8
SECONDAY:  TOTAL                  11.0        27.0      1r.0            40.5       51.2        39.7
M4LE                 11.0        27.0      17.0            40.4       56.4
FZIULZ               10.0        27.0      20.0            39.0       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SEMCNDA)  19.0          17.0      47.Oj           18.3       18.3
PO?h-rEACEUR RATIO
PRIMARY                           33.0        28.0      22.0            37.1       27.1
SECONDARY                         13.0        13.0      11.0            17.9       25.3
ADUtT LITACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0        66.2      75.7            77.4       86.1
CONSUrmTION
PASSENGER CARS PER ThOQSAND
POPULATZCN                         7.0        25.0      45.0            29.1       53.4        68.1
RADIO RECEVEiRS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        66.0       126.0     158.0           172.1      225.9       210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAMD
POPULATION                        18.0        66.0     100.0            67.9      102.6       117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GLZERA1L
INTERESTS) CRCULATION PER
TOUSAND POPULATION                  54.0        37.0      39.0            76.1       78.5
CLEMA AUAL ATZNDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0            1.9       2.6             4.2        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   22700.0    29400.0  36100.0
FMALE (PERCENT)                   17.5        20.4      21.6            21.5       24.3        27.2
PGRICULTURZ (PERCENT)             51.9        45.6      42.0            30.2       28.9        23.J
7NDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.8        18.3      20.0            23.8       30.6
PARTICIPATION RUTE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.0        31.6      31.5            30.9       33.8        40.1
!MALE                               52.7        50.3      49.5            47.3       51.3        55.7
FEMALE                              11.2        12.8      13.6            13.3       16.3        24.7
ECONOMtIC DZPF-0INCY RATIO             1.6         1.5       1.4             1.5        1.3         1.0
INCOME DISTRI3UTION
PECE HT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF 3OUSEHOLDS     ..         ..         ..            23.7
IGICEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSENOLDS  60.0        63.5      62.0            58.7       57.6.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8         3.2       2.8             2.9        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8         9.0       9.4             9.9       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIlMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPrTA)
URBAN                               ..         ..         ..           265.6
RURAL                               ..          ..    150.0            185.1
ZSTIMATED RELATIVE PO?VERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URSAN                               ..          ..    465.0            396.3      550.0
RURAL                               ..         ..    332.0             308.1      403.4
ESTI;ATED POPULATON BELrOW ASSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URIAN                               ..         ..         ..            35.2
RURAL                               ..         ..        ..             46.6
I..co available
I  applicable.
NOs
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weigbted gecetric means, oxcluding the *scrm
values of tne Lndicator and che most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicacors depends on availabilicy of d.ca and is mot uniform.
/b    Unles, othervise noted, daca for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   Lacin America & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /. High Lncome
(over S2500 per capita. 1976);  If  1972;  7a  Beginning 1973, duration of general educacion reduced
from 7 co 6 years. cherefore dasa  ay noc be comparable co chose of earlier years.
Host Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
auet, 1979



-25-
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                               page   3
,ac:  The adjistad group avera- es for each indicator are  popalatios.wighrd geometric means, cclcdiog the  otrnee values of the indicator end the nost
popuLated country in each groop.  Coverae of countries arong the indicatore depends on  -vallability of data and is sot uniform   Due to lack of data.
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Espoetrs and indicators of access to w-ter and c.crera disposiL, housing, income distribution and pocerty are
stipLo  opulacint-wcighLed geom.tric nears withoot the euclusion of eutrene values
LASD OREKA (thousand sq. ki)                                                           opulation per hospital bhd - total,  rba. and rural - Population (tutal.
Total  -        Total surface ars comprising land area and inland water.              urban, and rural) divided by their respective  abr of hospital beds
dg.cicvltaral .- Most rseo-t catimte of agricultural area used temporarily            available in public and private general end spec-ielld hospital and r-
yr pansa.crtly for crops, pastor's, market and kitchn gardens or to                 habilitati. centers.  Hospitals are astabliehbents permanestly staffed by
Ice fallur.                                                                         at Isas.t one physicisn.  istablishs..rts proiding principelLy custodial
r are ea  cat included.  Rural honpit1s. howver,  inalde health and mdil-
COP PER CAPITA (U11) - GNP par capita  osticaee at current marker prices-               cal  centers  not permanstly staffed by a physician (but by a medical   -
calculated by sane conversion method ca World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);           striant.  nurse,  idaif, etc.) which offer in-patient accoemdatla  and
1960, 1970, and 1977 deta.                                                          provide a liiitad range of medical facilities.
Ado-ssious opr hospital bed - Total nuober of admissions to or di"chacrgs
ENERGY CONSLPTISlS PER CAPITA - Annual coasueption of toaevrial  nevgy                 from hospitals dIvided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, pctaoleu. natural  as and hydra-, nuclear and gS.-
rheral electricity) In kilogras of coal equivalenc per capita.                  HOUSING
Avorus. sloe of h.usehold (perso-s per housahold) - rtual. urban. and rural-
POPLLATION AND VITAL StATISTICS                                                        A household consists  of a group of individuals who share living qurters
Totat  population.  id-year (nillions) - As of July 1; if not available.             asd their rain eals.  A boarder or lodger ay or  y  not be inslidedi is
average of two end-year eaticatos; 1960  1970  and 1977 data,                       the household for statistical purposes.   St-tistical definitiens of huses-
l;rbus o           prulut .on ierceot of to..l) - Ratio of urban to toal pupula-      hold vary
tics; dIfferent dafinitiors of urban areas   y affect camparsbilisy              Ahrcace numher of persas Per roomr    - total, urb-an  and rur-l -Average mnr-
of date acong c,strles.                                                             ber of persons per room is all, urban, and rural occupied 1ve etisn.l.
Population dens ity                                                                   dwellings, cespettLvely.  D-ellings emcude sos-peranent strrtarrea and
Per  so. hgm. - Mld-y' ar population pcc square bil.meter (100 hactarse)             unocc-pied parts.
of total ares.                                                                    Access to  Ilactricity (perceoc of d..ellias) - cratl, urban, and rural -
Per s. ho. agriculure land - Computed as above for agricultural land                Conventional dwetlings with .e1ctricity in living quarters em percentage
only.                                                                               of total. urban.  and rcral dwellings respectively.
PopulatIon a, structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yearn), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and aver) ms percecntags of mid-           EDUCATION
year pupulatin.                                                                  Adjusted asroll-ant ration
Population iraoith rats (percent) - total. and urban - Compound annual              Prtarv school - total, sod feale - Total and female enrolment of a11 ages
grouth rates of total and urban mid-year populati..s far 1950-60,                   at the primary ieve  as portsctagen of respectiveIv primry eaoal-a
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                               popalations; normally includas children aged 6-11 years but  djuted far
Crude bitch rats (per thoussnd) - Annual live births per thousand of                  different lngths of primary education; for couotrios with universsl  do-
rid-year populatios; tsr-year arithmetic averages ending is 1960 and                catics  oralloast nay sxceed 100 prrcent since so   pupils ar  belu  or
1910 anS five-year averags ending in 1975 for mast recent estinate,                 above Ie official school age
Crude death rate (par thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                S-ccndary uchuol - catalt  ond female - Computed as abov-; secn-dary edwia-
your population; tcn-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970               tlio  requires at 1east four years of approved prlIary instru-tlom; pro-
and five-year average ending In 1975 for mast recent estimate,                      olde  genoerl voratinal, or teacher trainieg Instruction- foe pupils
Crosd duction rat - Averag  number of daughters a wo.a. will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correopoedere courses ara gsraliy
in her normal reproductive period if she auperiences present ag-                     xcluded.
specific fertility rates; usuaIly five-year verages endig in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percret of secondary) - Vocational iaaticotton. in-
1970  and 197)                                                                      clide technical  industrial  or other programs which aprets independenrtly
Dandy, pluno Las   acceptors. annual (thousads) - Annua Iuahbr of                     or us daporcenso   ouraySaiutoos.
rcceptasr  of birth-control devices under auspices of national family            PupIl-to    e  raits - prIn, and secondary   Total students enrulied in
plauntog Program.                                                                 - primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the carte-
Fouilly   . p inois   -usrs (percent 0f n  arod wmn   Per-onrge of                    oPodglcas
married woero of child-bearing age (15-Lb year) wh  uer  birth-control           Adult liccaco nato (uct) - Litorate adults (able to read an' writ) so
devices to all  rrrIed woses in sam-  aSe grup.                                     a pro-tastgs of toral adult population aged 15 y-rr  ..i ovur.
FOOD AND  UITRITION                                                                CONSUlPTION
loden of food produrtion per capita (1970-100) - Indas . .nbe- of per              Passenger curs (Per thousand population) - Pau.enger cars coapriue rantr ctrs
capita annual productios of all food c-reoditis.                                  seating loss than eight parsons; escludes anb) .anc.s. hearses and  ilitary
Per capita supply of calaries (percent of resucieieurs) - Computed frc.             vehicles
energy equivalent of net food supplies availsble in coustry per capita           Radio receivers (per thousand population) - AIL types of ceceivar  for radio
po  day. Available supplies covprine domeati  production, inports 1ess           broadcasts to geo-ral public per thousand of population; emnLudme unlicensed
exports  and changes in  tock.  Net supplies esclude animal fed, seeds,           rcei-ers in cnunttiesod in year s...     n registration nf radi. este we  in
quantiieas used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-              effect; data for recent years say not be comparable since mest cauntries
qoic...ots sene estimated by FAo based on physiolugical reeds for nor-            abolish-d licen.ing.
sal activity and health considering enviroental tomperaturs. body                TV roc.ivrs (yet thousadp          c     -     rec. ivers for bruedns-t tc generi.
weights  age and sea distrihutions of population, sod alluoing 10 per-              public per thousand population;  ocludee unlicensed rV receivers I  co-
cent for waste at household level                                                   tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effct.
Per capita supply of proein (grams Per day) - Protino conent of per                Newspaper circulation (per thousand popuIltion) - Shows h    bm t ve      crral.-
capica ret supply of food per day   Net supply of food is defined a                 sins of  daily general interest newspaper   defined em a periudiraa  publi-
abo.-  Rtquir.ments far all countries socablished by USDA provide for               catios devoted primarily to recording general sews It ls considered to
a misisam allowance of 60 gras of total protein per day and 20 Srams                be "daily" if it appears at least four tinse  a week
of aninal and puls  protein, of which 10 grams should be aniul protein.          Cioea annual sttedance pe  capita per year - eased on the number of tickets
Tb ere scandards are lawer than thoes of 75 grams of total protein and              sold during the year, inlUding admissions to drive-in ci             and cobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                 units
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
P_ _,ypica prrmin supply from anima sond pulse - Protein supply of food           EMPiSTYMENT
danived from animals sod pulss in 1 gra    per day.                              Total Iabcr force (h.usa.ds) - EconomIcally activ  persons, inolding ermad
Child (ages  1-4) mourality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thaos-            forces and unemployed but occluding housewives, students. etc.  Defiti-
and in age grctp 1-4 years, to children in this age group                           tions is various countries are not  omparable.
FeItle (percn.t) - Female labor farce am percentage of total labor force.
HEALrH                                                                              Atriculturs (percent) - Labor farce in farting. forestry. hunting and fishinK
Life expctancy at birth (yoars) - Average number of years of life                     as perceotage of total labor force
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages cnding in 1960, 1970,             Industry (pcn-t) - Labor force in mining, conutruction, tanufactcring ard
and 1975.                                                                           electricity  water and gas as percetage of tors  labor force.
Infant mrtality rate (par thousuod) - Annual diatho of infants under               Farticipation rae (percent) - total. male  and female - Total.   tle  and
one Year of age Per thousand live birhts.                                           aenue labr force as peroentagas of their respective popu!  ti.n
Accessto safe water (percent of populatios) - total  urban  and rural -                rhree are . iLOt edj,cted participation rates rrfloctitg o.r-sea
osbher of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable scues to                  uto .tue of the popclocios. and Ion;rime trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surfac waters or untreated but               pconnoic drpoodescr ratio - luci-of  population under to ard n5 and  ves to
uccontumisated water such as that from protected borcholes.  springs                 the labcr force in age group 0t 15-64 years
and susitary wells) as peroentagmo of their reepsctiv- populations
In sn urban  area a public foscati  or stsodpcst located not more               INCOMIE DISTRIBITIOB
than 200 meters from a house nay be considered as being within rca-              Percentage of private incoe (both in cash and kind) received by richest 
nonable acceus of that house,  in rural areas reasonable accems would                percent  richest 20 percent, psorest 20 percent. nd poore.t !0 percent
Iply chat the housewife or cenbers of the household do sat have to                 of housholds.
spend a dispropor4.na..   part of the day in fetching tho family's
water needs.                                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROL'PS
Access to -ocrata disposal (percent of eo nulatin) - total, urban, and              fotieted absolute poverty income level (ilS per E  it., - urban nd rota: -
rucrl - Nuhber of popl. (total, urbao  and meal) soco-d by macrota                     Absolcte poverty isoumt level is chat income level baluw vhiclh. n -io- -
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Encrata                    notritionolly adequate diet plus essential mno-food requirements Cv cuL
disposal may include the collectiot  and disposal,  ith or without                   offordable.
treotment, of h.naa  .srera and  -tsoe-water bywvator-borne systeos              Etinated relative poverty iuoume level (LSO per rapita) - urban asd r-r } -
ot the use of t privies and similar installaions                                     Relative poverty income level is that in.o-e  level less than one-tuic9
Population per physician - Papulation divided by number of practicing                  per capita personal intoce of the rcuntry.r
physicians qualified fran a mediual school at university level-.                  usatod opulation below poverty inton  level (peretj - Urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                        Percent of population (urban and rural)  oh  are either "absoiute ,vr' or
practicing ma1e on  female graduat  curses  practical nurses, and                    "relative poor whichver is granter.
assistant nursos.
Etoussic and Social Dt c Divilion
Ecomamir Analysis and Projections DSa.art-rr






10-10                 .
4-to     -a-ooo-         -   00000       10'000'       0010                                   -      00100041.1010
a.
00       10000101010 '0  10404010>104-  10  >010.010  I to  104-004.10           10            10.010  10.0O 101010 0101010.-10
0.0      000000 0-o  0000000   10  <0000   '10  0-0001000                        0                         0 i0 0.01000
--       <'000000110  0<   00  10 10  00000   000   0.000              10100004 Coto    010'0  0  I    000    '0001010
0        0000   0  -  00ia00-a 10 01  0(0000             01R 0-4      0000000          000   01010  04-00000000   --
ooCt     00400100-0.00  0000000        0  00000          -.0010        040000040       '00o0010   0000 000000.4-10
0        00000400    n4-0100    00 000                 0000 p0       000'OOtOo         - 0000104   4-10 oaonoo          -10
0-0      10.oo4o       00000         10  0l-0          0010          10,I00400        00000010   4-0 0oflOooo.0 00-
00                 004  00101010    10        toO        0000       0   0'00   0    00  0  400  010  04-0 t'0        a 04-
.000     0100110  1004-    00   100        00   0    -      000    0  00000          0  001000  010        0   00    a'-
404000000 00101000 No-I-- - 0 0 o onO,0 o 000101010000 0 0 04
-  o,'00                               0      0  100    010  00   000   0  000
                  . ag -   - 00                                             toO
000      "000   000   10-10  0.00    00  0400.       0        01       000   0          00              -            -t   10
00.000.  0010  00  000        0  0  00010                 -t   0.0  0      04.0.p 00  10   00    ".00  0  11010
00    10          00    10           aE                         0           0                   00    0  00
04-04-  0   01 10   001'    0' 001-' 00  10          0    '0    40  -      40o 0.0' 10  000    >0.0           00000
0.00    1010 '0   0100    -0  00100.0.  10       0    0    %lOt  0            0.  0  -40   00     0400  -  000
10        00   to  10   0.040                            0      00    -                  040
*        00   0               100          I40                              0           00    10              0    0
0        00   0               00          00                  o         00   -            01'                  o    0
0        -     0              00          0                   0           0.                1    0             0.   40    10
0                             00                              0           0  10           100    0                        0
'01                   10                             0               10          00     0                        0
101010101010>  .0                         .4101.11010>010                     0>040400>041001<
10101001010  0  1001000040   01'01010          01000      0  .010040400    04  100010        010001000000400'0              0
0.0400010  >1010040000100400040                10100-    00  00>00>10    00  00010           000004100400-'00               0.
-  10010101000  0                             10  10  100      000000            041010100>0-0404  0'
0-041010>101010>010101010   0  101010010           -      10  1010>0 100    1004-100         04>01010>1010000               10
0-
10  1010101010100  0                         010010            10010>10          10101004  0>004  10           10
10041010>010  0  10>100404     101010     0  100101000    0>04010             100401010010004004
.0
1010010     - - -      0  040010000    10  1010100        0>0010100410010>              10
a 10
10004     00410      04010101001010   004>10            >0401010010104-040            0
0                                                                                                                                      0.0        0
'00'                                                                                                                                   00        10
00                                                                                                                   10  10                       0
00                                                                 0    00           0      00         >10>0         105>              0          -4
-0                                      10    10100      - -.       >100000000    10  04010>           010010010>1010100             0410
10                    0 00-0-0001-O  0         1004    01010     10  100000004    0.00040             001000401000>0000             0
0                     1000  0  00        - - 0004>     . - -      1010000000    0  040040.           10010000100410100             0
40                    0 0 010010              010     10100     04  004040410>   00  00044-          >010>0404>10101010           04
4004-0-00
a
i                            04-
-0    0                                                                                                 0
 -
0                                                    0410     0404>     10  0010>040    00>000-             01000.  010>0  04             00
0-10010 0 110 - - - - - -...100
10                          00010  10  0-  '0        010      101010    010101010010101001010               04101004101000  10            '04
100400.  0  00 lo                                                                                            010
10                                                  0404      04040     04  10010>040    10  1000.0-        01010>  010100'  10          04
000     ooo.      10  01010040010   0-  101000        004100  1004>0  04
10   00  0-       100oo10          00010         10110           10
10  0-o10>o       10  1000>04      0-10>040>100101010            >          10
0400000010    10101010   10-00                                  10           10
10  100-10100  0  10  000410-t     10100-04100-01010104-0        0
10001000101010   10  04>0100       010010004010100-.            04
10   010  0      0  0010           1000044       010             10   4






ANNEX I
-27-                                                        Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Million u5$)
A C T U A L                                          P R O J E C T E D
1974         1975          1976          1977            1978          1979          1960         1985           1-990
A. Summary of Balance of Payments
1.     Exports (incl. NFS)                      8,471         9,376        10,797        12,808           13,794      16,145        18,322        40,483        85,913
2.     Imports (i..1  NFS)                     14,678        14,308        14,475        14,020           16,133      19,787        23,453        40,629        81,284
3.     Resource Balance                        -6,207        -4,932        -3,678        -1,212           -2,339      -3,642        -5,130          -146         4,629
4.     Net Factor Service Income                 - 916       -1,770        -2,339        -2,825           -3,624      -4,883        -6,353       -12,171       -18,886
1. Net Interest Payments                    - 652        -1,498        -1,809        -2,104           -2,695      -3,625       -4,990       -10,005       -15,442
S. Direct Investment Income                 - 248         - 235         - 380         - 455             -564        -542          -590       -1,030         -1,775
c. Other Factor Service Income              -  16         -  37         - 150         - 266             -365        -716          -773       -1,136         -1,670
5.     Corrent Transfer, (Net)                       1            2             4            -                72           7             7             7             7
6.     Balance on Corrent Account              -7,122        -6,700        -6,013        -4.037           -5,891      -8,518      -11,477       -12,310       -14,250
7.     Net Private Direct Investment               887          892           962           810              906       1,000         1,000         1,000           750
8.     Medium- end Long-Term Loann
a, Traditional Sources_/
(i) Disbursements                      1,956        1,612         2,054         2,553            2,391       3,661         4,075         6,908        11,264
(ii) Amortizetion                       - 739         - 992       -1,350        -1,701           -1,762      -1,646        -1,936        -4,296        -6,961
(iii) Net Disbursements                  1,217           620           703          852               629      2,014         2,139         2,612         4,302
b. Financial Credits
(i) Diohorsements                      5,103        4,524         5,970         5,940            11,312      6,654        14,786        19,659        31,669
(ii) Amortization                      -1,181       -1,194        -1,669        -2,426           -3,408      -4,150        -5,604       -10,097       -20,142
(iii) Net Disbursements                  3,922         3;330        4,309         3,514             7,904      2,504         9,182         9,562        11,526
9.     Use of IMF Resources                        -              7           -             -
10.     Short-term Capital and Capitol n.e.i.    138             709         2,294         - 440              332         -             -             -
11.     Reserves (-- incres)-,
a. Reserve Accumulation-/                     950         1,062        -2,255         - 699           -3,880       3,000          -847          -864       -2,329
b. Dollar Valuation Adjustment                 305          176         - 252         -  16             -7339        -             -             -
c, Changes in Reseroe Levels/               1,143         1,238        -2,507         - 715            4,619       3,000          -847          -864        -2,329
12.     Foreign Exchamge Reserves                 5,272        4,034         6,541         7,256           11,875       8,875         9,722        13,551        22,499
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments                                                                             (preliminar,)
1.     Total MOLT Loans                          7,094        6,602         9,536         8,949           15,249
1.1    IBRD                                        242          426           498           425              688
1.2    ID1                                         203           167          186           270              283
1.3    Governments                                 433          109         1,305           395              169
1.4    Soppliers                                 1,088        1,376         1,300         1,100            1,857
1.5    Bonds                                        25          -             269           819              940
1.6    Financial Credits                         5,103        4,524         5,978         5,940           11,312
C. Monoraudon Itros
1.     Grant glement of Total Commitments            2.5           2.5          2.5           2.8            ...
2.     Average Interest (Perceet)                    9,5           9.5          9,4           9.3             8.2
3.     Average Maturity (Years)                      9.0           9.9          8,3           8.9           10.6
a!  Includes multilateral agencies., bilateral lenders, nuppliers' credits and bond issues.
1/ IFS Line 79d.
IFS Line Id.                                                                                                                                                          January 9, 1980
not available



-28-
ANNEX 1
Page 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual
1974        1975         1976         1977        2978
A. Medium- and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1. Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                        17,166       21,171       25,985       32,037      43.511
a. By type of Debt
(1) Financial Credits                                    11,211      14,561       18,194       21,528       29,500
(2) Traditional Lendersa!                                 5,955       6,610        7,791       10,509       14,011
b. By type of Borrower
(1) Public and Publicly Guaranteed                        8,533      11,461       14,852       19,309       27,223
(2) Private                                               8,633       9,710       11,133       12,729       16,288
2,  Net Debt Service                                              2,572        3,683        4,825        6,231        7,865
a.  Total Interest                                            1,370        1,863        2,091       2,462        3,342
b.  Net Interest                                                652        1,498        1,810       2,103         2,695
3.  Public Debt Service                                           1,287        1,550        1,982       2,505         3,933
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratiob/                                       30.4         39.3         44.7         48.6        57.0
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratioc/                                 33.3         41.8         48.2         52.2        63.8
3.  Public Debt Service Ratio                                      15.2         16.5         18.4         19.6        28.5
4. Liquidity Ratiod/                                               23.0         33.3         43.0         39.2        46.2
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP                                            2.3          3.0          3.3          3.8         4.1
6. Public Debt Service/GDP                                          1.2          1.3          1.4          1.5         2.1
7.  Total DOD/GDP                                                  15.6         17.1         17.8         19.3        22.0
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DODe/                               10.9        10.9          9.9          9.5         10.4
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DODe/                                   20.5         21.5         22.8         24.0         24.5
D.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                        48.1         42.9         55.5         60.6         84.9
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)Q/                             25.7         14.6         20.2         13.6         32.2
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                               53.4         34.0         36.4        22.4          37.9
E.  Exyosure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                     3.5         4.1          2.2          3.5          2.0
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                              4.9          5.2          5.0          4.8          3.7
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                              3.0          2.5          2.4          2.9          2.6
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                               Outstanding December 31, 1978
Amount                                Percent
1.  IBRD                                                               1,974                                   4.5
2.  Other Multilateral                                                   911                                   2.1
3.  Governments                                                        3,153                                   7.2
4.  Suppliers                                                          5,343                                  12.3
5.  Bonds                                                              2,380                                   5.5
6.  Financial Credits                                                 29,500                                  67.8
7.  Other                                                                250                                   0.6
8.  Total M&LT Debt                                                   43,511                                 100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                            27,223                                  62.6
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT Loans n.e.i.
b/  Net Debt Service as percent of exports of goods and NFS.
c/  Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
d/ Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year) in excess
of 3 months imports.
e/ As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
f/  Net transfer is equal to total net disbursements minus gross interest.
...  not available
Note: Debt service ratios have been calculated on the basis of net rather than gross interest payments in
order to take into account interest earned upon Brazil's international reserves.
January 9, 1980



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of February 29, 1980)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-five loans fully disbursed                                 1,485.0
756   1971  Brazil                             Ports               45.0           5.7
853   1972  Brazil                             Land Settlement      6.7            .1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power              125.0          14.3
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry       42.3          15.0
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power               81.0          23.7
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply         36.0           0.3
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education           23.5          13.7
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways            175.0          18.4
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads               110.0          26.0
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0          52.6
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0          50.4
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture          23.0          11.8
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways            75.0          25.9
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0            10.4
1206   1976  Brazil                            Development Bank   35.0             6.2
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads        55.0          47.6
1249   1976  Brazil                            Agriculture          40.0          30.1
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer          50.0           1.4
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de            Power               49.0          11.7
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



-30-
ANNEXI
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of February 29, 1980)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower               Purpose     Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                      Power                 50.0          20.8
1302    1976  Brazil                          Nutrition             19.0          17.0
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0          23.0
1317    1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry         83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                       Power                 82.0          41.1
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development   42.0            21.6
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer            64.0          54.0
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do           Fertilizer            55.0          10.7
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                          Education             32.0          28.9
1488    1977  Brazil                          Rural Development   17.0            14.3
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage               110.0         100.5
1537    1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   24.0            22.0
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                      Power                130.0         129.9
1557    1978  Brazil                          Roads                114.0         110.9
1562    1978  COPESUL                         Petrochemicals        85.0          73.3
1563    1978  Brazil                          Urban Transport       88.0          76.8
1568    1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension   100.0            97.1
1589    1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   37.0            34.6
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0              93.0
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0             100.0
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.           Aluminum              98.0          88.9
1714    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   26.0            26.0
1720 /1 1979  Brazil                          Urban Development   70.0            70.0
1721    1979  COPEL                           Power                109.0         109.0
1728    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   40.0            40.0
1729    1979  Brazil                          Irrigation            28.0          28.0
1730    1979  Brazil                          Roads                110.0         110.0
Total                                             4,469.4 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                613.5
Total now outstanding                             3,855.9
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            42.5            3.3
Total now held by Bank                            3,852.6
Total undisbursed                                                1,989.7
/1   Not yet effective.
7T   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



ANNEX II
-31-                                         Page 3
B.  STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENTS  (as of February 29, 1980)
Fiscal Year                           Obligor                                      Type of Business         Amount in USs million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                     Electrical Equipmnt         2.00       -        2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                           Pulp and Paper              1.20       -        1.20
1958               D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                           Automotive Parts            0.45       -       0.45
1958              Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                     Motor Vehicles              2.45       -       2.45
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                Cement                      1.20       -        1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S.A.                                    Pulp                        4.00       -       4.00
1966/19681
1972              Acos Villares, S.A.                                         Steel                       8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                         Pulp and Paper              3.78      3.41     7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                         Fertilizers                 8.22      3.03    11.25
1969              Petroquimica LUniao, S.A.                                   Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88     8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                    Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88     8.38
1971              Oxitepo, S.A. Industria e Comercio                          Petrochemicals              4.60      1.44     6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                  Pulp                        4.90       -       4.90
1972/1975         Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                      Cement                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                Steel                      76.97      7.50    84.47
1973               Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                   Capital Market
Development               5.00       -        5.00
1973/1978          Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                     Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                  Refining                  85.00      8.34    93.34
1974               Industrias Villares, S.A.                                  Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment           6.00        -      6.00
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                           Textiles                   31.00       -      31.00
1975/1979          Capuava Carbonos Industrips Ltd.                           Carbon Black                6.18      1.19     7.37
1975               Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                     Petrochemicals             10.00       -      10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.              Textiles                    6.45      1.00     7.45
197611980          Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste              Textiles                   16.20       -      16.20
1977              FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and Aluminum
Castings                 20.00       -      20.00
1977              Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                 Mining                     15.00       -      15.00
1978               Cimetal.Siderurgia S.A.                                    Iron and Steel              7.0       3.0     10.0
1979               Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules S. A.                   Motor Vehicles             60.00     5.00    65.00
1980               Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                          Ready-made Garments         2.00       -        2.00
1980               Dende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura,
Industria e Comercio de Oelaginosas                      Palm Oil                    3.50      1.00     4.50
1980               Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                 Iron and Steel              5.00       -       5.00
1980               PPH - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileno                Chemicals and Petro-
Chemicals                15.00      2.00    17.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                              451.24    47.80   499.04
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                               321.31      8.52   329.83
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                    129.93    39.28   169.21
Total Undisbursed                                                                    150.75    12.05   162.80



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
As of February 29, 1980, there were 45 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
After long delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project completion is now expected by end-1980. The financial
condition of the port of Santos has improved. Price escalation for
civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by addi-
tional allocations from Brazil's federal port authority, PORTOBRAS.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. The now completed road component of the project
was reduced from the original 306 to 238 km. Other aspects of the
project are also nearing completion and 8,000 families have settled
in the project area, more than half already receiving full project
services. However, the project has taken longer than expected to
complete, having been subject to administrative delays in the
release of public funds, unforeseen legal complications in transfer-
ring land titles to settlers, and cost overruns presently amounting
to about 240%. The Closing Date for this loan has been postponed
to December 31, 1980 to allow the Borrower sufficient time to meet
final payments on equipment contracts.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.  The project is about 75% completed.  Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 54% over
the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds were prepaid by the Government,
reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commitments
under this loan were almost at a standstill as a result of competing
credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down in indus-
trial investments. The original Closing Date was postponed once--
from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1979. In view of the slow
disbursement, and the fact that commitments under Loan No. 1317-BR
had not yet started, the Bank decided to allow the Closing Date to
lapse, and has cancelled the amount of US$11,737,035.97, correspond-
ing to the uncommitted balance of Loan No. 924-BR as of June 30,
1979. The Borrower will be permitted to draw down until June 30,
1980 up to the amount of US$16,537,353.30, corresponding to the
amount of Loan No. 924-BR committed as of June 30, 1979 against
approved sub-projects but not yet disbursed as of that date.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to December 31, 1980.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15, 1980
This project is substantially completed. As of February 29, 1980,
99% of the loan proceeds had been disbursed. The project has financed
41 subprojects in the capital city, Belo Horizonte, and in other
cities and towns. The Closing Date for this loan was postponed to
August 15, 1980 so that the borrower can meet final payments on
equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Project imple-
mentation units in all eight project states and these, together with
the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed
and have yielded useful information for future sector investment
planning. The original closing date of December 31, 1979 has been
postponed to June 30, 1981.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items.  Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing.  Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are completed. Implementation
of the road weighing station program and the maintenance component is
making progress after some initial delays. The closing date originally
December 31, 1979 has been postponed to December 31, 1981.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials, some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program, and funding shortfalls from the federal government.
The Government has reassigned priority to the steel sector, and no
further financial difficulties are envisaged. Substantial changes
were made resulting in better management and control of the project.
The project remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project was revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III has been proceeding at a reduced pace in part because
of uncertainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds
to fully finance the project. However, with the assurance of the
availability of sufficient federal funding because of the priority
assigned to the steel sector by the federal government, no further
delays are envisaged. The revised project cost is US$1.7 billion
which is 44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project
remains economically justified.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 and again in early 1980 has further delayed
project progress. Current cost estimates show an increase of at
least 80% over the appraisal estimate of US$56.5 million. These
increases have resulted from design changes, rapid increases in the
costs of civil works and equipment, and in the cost of land expro-
priation. Further adjustment in project composition is being
considered in view of the 1979 and 1980 floods. The closing date
has been postponed to December 31, 1982.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is completed. The technical assistance
program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations, marketing,
and data processing systems is showing results. FEPASA's financial
position, however, continues to remain extremely weak. Active
consideration is being given to ways in which this situation can
be corrected. The closing date for this loan was postponed to
December 31, 1981 to allow the borrower the time needed to meet
final payments on equipment contracts.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. Phase II, now
just beginning, would sharpen the project's focus on the lowest
income farmers and would include new components in the areas of
marketing, storage, and support to cooperatives, land services, seed
production, and inland fisheries. A serious drought in 1979,
coupled with delays in the release of funds, has slowed down the
implementation of Phase II. The closing date for this loan was
postponed to September 30, 1982 to allow disbursements to coordinate
effectively with Phase II.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to the availability of competing credit lines at subsidized
interest rates, there was little demand for loan funds, and as of
year-end 1979, about US$52.5 million of the Bank loan remained
uncommitted. Since this situation was expected to persist, the
Government requested cancellation of the uncommitted balance of
the loan, and US$50 million of the loan was cancelled as of



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
January 28, 1980. It is expected that the Government will request
cancellation of an additional US$2.5 million. The Closing Date
of the loan has been extended to December 31, 1980 to enable
completion of disbursements against approved subprojects which were
committed for financing under the loan but against which disburse-
ments have not been completed.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976: Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Thirteen sub-projects involving ten different
states have been approved. Construction is underway in three
states, Bahia, Minas Gerais, and Goias.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA in early 1979. Imposed hiring constraints
also significantly affected the civil works, consultant services,
and training components of this project. The outlook for 1980 is
more favorable with a recent resumption of normal hiring procedures
and an expanded program of civil works to recuperate previous
shortfalls.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Major project works were completed on schedule but overall project
completion is about 1 year behind schedule and about 98% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 10% behind appraisal forecast. The Closing Date has been
postponed by six months, to June 30, 1980. An amount of US$3.0
million of the loan proceeds has been cancelled at the request of
the Borrower since it could not be utilized for project related
expenditures.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. However, the Bank has post-
poned the closing date to December 31, 1980. The agreed targets for
connection of low income households have been widely exceeded.
Substantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Field tests of nutrition delivery systems
are proceeding reasonably well. After initial delays, food techno-
logy research, manpower training, and special studies have become
fully operational. No disbursements have been made under the
industrial credit component because of competitive programs at
subsidized rates. Measures to deal with the inactive industrial
credit component, and ways to improve INAN's organizational and
management capabilities, are currently under review by the Government.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977i
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
began only in 1979. However, the continuing existence of competing
credit lines at subsidized rates may well render the balance of this
loan unusable. The Government is expected to request cancellation
of the uncommitted balance of this loan.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 60% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
Loan disbursements are progressing according to appraisal forecast.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
and close to schedule after initial delays. Mainly as a result of
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by
landless producers was initially significantly lower than originally
envisaged, but concerted efforts by the state government and the
participating banks have improved this situation markedly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
October 1, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
affecting project execution. US$27.0 million of the loan proceeds
has been cancelled at the request of the Borrower since the cost
for equipment was much less than originally anticipated, and the
funds could not be used for other appropriate project-related
expenditures.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers is proceeding within cost estimates
but about one year behind schedule. Administrative problems which
have contributed to delays in the rural training component are being
resolved, but the hotel training component continues to encounter
implementation difficulties. The technical assistance program is
underway at the training centers.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project in general is proceeding satisfac-
torily although local funding delays have been a recurring problem.
Agricultural extension and experimentation services, agricultural
credit, input supply, marketing and storage services are making
good progress, while the parts of the project relating to agricul-
tural mechanization and cooperative societies organization are
progressing at a slower than expected rate. The recent establish-
ment of a land agency in Ceara has enabled the land purchase credit
component to get underway.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction
of three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is
progressing well. Equipment contracts have been signed for these
plants, committing approximately US$60 million of the loan.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Project implementation has slowed down due to funding delays. Civil
works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm development
component is showing encouraging initial results. However, adminis-
trative problems are causing difficulties in making credit available
to the smaller farmers and tenants. The health and water supply
components are suffering from planning and training weaknesses.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Reconstruction of highways foreseen under the project is proceeding
satisfactorily. There have been delays in the delegation of
highway maintenance responsibilities to the states, because of
staffing problems in the state highway departments resulting from
low salary scales, and because the states will not accept respon-
sibility for federal highways until they have been rehabilitated.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
varied widely among the five cities involved. The Curitiba sub-
project is the furthest advanced.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency, EMBRATER, has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized, and project execution proceeded satis-
factorily during FY 1979. Early local funding delays appear to have
been resolved in late 1979. Means to resolve current problems in
achieving planned levels of incremental staffing are under discussion.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
First year implementation of the project advanced satisfactorily
after initial funding delays. Substantial progress was made in
majority of the components, and targets for the number of farmers
to be assisted with extension and credit were exceeded. However,
project activities were disrupted in March 1979 with the change
in state administrations and dismissal of a large number of
project-funded staff. Funding delays in year two have compounded
difficulties associated with the rehiring of staff, now underway,
and the restoration of appropriate coordination and integration of
project activities.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Project execution is proceeding
ahead of schedule in Sao Paulo and Recife. Some initial delays have
been experienced in Salvador.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the five year
investment program of the project water companies for the period
1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have also been
approved and construction is underway. However, because of initial
difficulties, the project may be completed with about a one-year
delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Prolect:  US$48.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with some minor delays.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. All components are in the early stages of
implementation.
1721      Copel Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Loan No.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period has been longer
than expected, in part due to initial delays in the release of
counterpart funds.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country
to prepare project:       Approximately one year
(b)  Project prepared by:      GEIPOT
(c) First presentation
to the Bank:              January 1978
(d) Departure of
Appraisal Mission:         September 1979
(e) Completion of
Negotiations:             April 1980
(f) Planned Deadline
for Effectiveness:        November 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(1) The Government to staff TRENSURB's project implementation office
(NEP)(Condition of Effectiveness, para. 54);
(2) TRENSURB to have the authority to charge tariffs to cover operating
costs, if economic circumstances allow (para. 60); and
(3) The onlending agreement to be ratified (Condition of Effectiveness,
para. 62).



This mp ha beesp epood by tohT 5o To Poul/ ,Caxyas Do,Sul    -                                   v     SANTA
W,rld Banks s,ff--irf..                                                                                 CATARINA t     f
the .o..en,o.ce of the rEfdert of
the reor to whih It,sartached  -
The de-oroot,-o used -d0 the                                                               A-                          SOUTH
b. nd.ri-s shown -n wh.s map    -r    w    *  NOVO HAMBURGO--km42.7
do ot -ply, 0n the por  the                                                                       O        ALFGR .r
World Saok -nd its OffiliEtWO ,y                  NOVO 9TR                                                           AMER'ICA
budote9t-  - thelesSototo     ,                                        I n.                  METROPOILITAN AltOS
onr tentp-e of anVh eoodoreme                                                                                                          B H
oracceptenceofsucboDndaries   !   30 jfENAC - km40.7       j       )    q0                                 <.   \          B A I 
RIO GRANDE                                 k_BroBra
7os s.DOC cliDUSTR IAL -km 397DO SUL                                                                                                    SotO
UIBERDAkDE -k  38.4                                                                        so No
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AF '.
to            ku~~~~~~~~~~JAl,      KtoeTg                             Alanfic
*RI   OSINOS- km 35.8                                              BA         5
\. t / \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL                                                                                     2S0 -
-SAOLEOPOLDO               SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
\}  lEOPOLJrA LEDO           >             Porto Alegre Metropolitan Area
r  *UNISINOS- km 31.6           )                         Passenger Railway Line - Phase One
..... .- + +Passenger Railway Line - Phase Two
_  ..                                 ----- l-----i-  Freight Railway Line
-                                           4 \-  t +                                      -  Freight Railway Line - Estimated Completion June 1980
.  Sa    :tRailway Station - Phase One
10    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~/                    *       Railway Station - Phase Two
_ S  fi   :/Train Depot and Administration Building
SAP,tUCAIA-km26+7                                  Por t
*                              ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Rivers
,-t   u   1AP         A        DOSUL                               National Roads             .    Built-up Areas
/m      utz1 sTEug-l m2.7                                            State Roads        -      -     Municipal Boundaries
DgL . 27 / L: 1 3|V: .: - S ;: :; )KILOM4ETERS,    
ESTEIO>                               1 0 ', _
\~~~\ot \ I ~~~~PETROBRAS -kml19.5 / 
\/y   t              . iL 5AO ~~~~~LUIS - km 18.1                                                 /
BR- 386                                                                                                    V         )
MATHIAS VELHO - km 16.2
1  C A N O A s   r                                                       ~~~~~~~To    .S AP IoHANO
Santo  /          ~~~~~CANOAS                                                                         CS,P-,"SAR   A
Alas-so                                       CANOAS - km 14.8                              )AP r, .0 ,_.(
F~TMA -km 12.1                                                     N     H
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
M~~~RCAEPO          RTO- m  60
To                                   11 0    5    1~ORO  LXRE0 T3
t                                                                                    -                  -          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETE~RS' 0 x



