Document of            I          ,          P 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2759b-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT (PORTO ALEGRE
BRAZIL
April 17, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit        Cruzeiro (Cr$) divided into 100 cents
Exchange Rates:      Average for Year
1975            US$1 = Cr$ 8.10
1976            US$1 = Cr$ 10.70
1977            US$1 = Cr$ 14.15
1978            US$1 =Cr$ 18.10
1979            US$1 = Cr$ 26.00
1980            US$1 = Cr$ 43.00 (January 1980)
Fiscal Year
Jaruary 1 to December 31
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 kilometer (km)                 -   0.62 mile (mi)
I meter (m)            2         -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km )         =   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                   =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)             =   0.98 long ton (lg ton)
1 metric ton (m ton)                  1.1 IJS short tons (sh ton)
1 liter                               0.2642 gallons
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BNDE                   National Development Bank
BNH               -    National Housing Bank
CED                    Centr.tal Business District of the
Municipality of Porto Alegre
CEEE                   State Electric Cou..pany of Rio Grande do Sul
CIP               -    Interministerial Council on Prices
COHAB             -    State Housing Company
CNDU              -    National Council on Urban Development
CNPU              -    National Commission on Metropolitan Regions and
UJrban Policy
CTC               -    Centralized Traffic Control
DEMHAB            -    Porto Alegre Housing Agency
DNER              -    Federal Highway Department
DNOS              -    National Department for Sanitation
EBTU              -    Brazilian Urban Transport Corporation
EMTU              -    Metropolitan Transport Agency
FDTU              -    Urban Transport Development Fund
FNDU              -    National Urban Development Fund
GEIPOT            -    National Transport Planning Agency
METROPLAN         -    Metropolitan Planning Agency of Porto Alegre
MRPA              -    Metropolitan Region of Porto Alegre
NEP               -    Project Implementing Office of TRENSURB/P.A.
NMTU              -    Agency for the Coordination and Regulation of
Transportation in MRPA
NPV               -    Net Present Value
PCU               -    Passenger Car Units
PME               -    Energy Mobilization Program
RFFSA             -    Federal Railway Company
SEAP              -    Secretariat for Supply and Prices in the
Ministry of Planning
SEPLAN            -    Ministry of Planning
TRENSURB/P.A.    -    Porto Alegre Metropolitan Rail Mass Transit Company



BRAZ IL                  FOR OFMUL USE ONLY
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT (PORTO ALEGRE) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page-No.
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND        ...                      .     ......   1
A.   Urban Structure and Trends ..........................      1
B.   Urban  Policy ...........  .............................. . ..........  I
C.   Urban Transport .......      .............................  3
D.   Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector ................      7
II.  AREA OF INFLUENCE - PORTO ALEGRE METROPOLITAN-REGION .....      7
A.   Geography ..........................................       7
B.   Demographic and Economic Base .............O..........     8
C.   Distribution of Income, Housing and Public Services.       9
D.  Metropolitan Planning and Coordination ..............    10
E.   Prognosis for the Metropolitan Region ..............   11
F.   Transport Sector             ........... .    11
G.   Travel Demand Forecasts .............................    15
H.  Train Ridership ................... ..................     16
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, DESCRIPTION AND COST ESTIMATES .......    17
A.   Project Objectives ............  . .....................   17
B.   Physical Works and Equipment......................   18
C.   Complementary Institutions and Policies .............   21
D.   Technical Assistance ............................... .    22
E.   Cost Estimates ....... ........ .. ......... .........    24
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND THE PROPOSED LOAN AND-BORROWER    24
A.   Project-Implementing Office ........................   24
B.   Implementation Schedule        .     . ... .. .......    25
C.  The Proposed Loan.   ....      .    ..............  ..........   25
D.   The Borrower, Onlending and Project Agreements .....   26
E.  Procurement   .       .......................... ........  ...   27
F.  Disbursements               .     .     .      ........ .   27
G.   Financing Plan            .     .    .     ........... .   27
H.   Project Risk ................................ ...........   28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during September-October 1979.  The mission comprised Messrs. M. Staab
(Economist), J. Baigorria and C. Buratti (Engineers), E. Haythorne (Lawyer),
R. Mosse (Financial Analyst) and C. Turner (Consultant),. The report has
been edited by Miss V. Foster.
This documont has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be qisclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   THE NEW METROPOLITAN RAIL MASS TRANSIT COMPANY ...........    28
A.   Ownership, Organization and Financial Policy .......   28
B.   Operations ...... .........              .. ...........   30
C.   Accounts .................  O* ...0.....  0........................    31
D.   Assets and Liabilities .       ............................   32
E.   Operating  Costs         .........................  ............  32
F.   Tariffs  ..........  ..... ...........................    32
G.   Financial Results ....... .....   ...     ......... O..   34
VI.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ....................   .... .. ...           34
A.  Alternatives       .......... .                            34
B.   Risk and Sensitivity Analysis .....................       39
C.   Distributional Impact ...........................         39
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................       40
TABLES
1.1     Urban and Regional Population Size in Brazil                43
1.2    Motorization Rates in Selected Urban Areas  . .44
2.1     Population by Municipality in the MRPA.                     45
2.2     The Location of Population Within the MRPA  . .46
2.3     Sectoral Distribution of Employment in the MRPA             47
2.4     Spatial and Sectoral Distribution of
Employment in the MRPARPA......                           48
2.5     Distribution of Household Income by Municipality
in the MRPo..............A....  ..                        49
2.6     Road Transport Infrastructure in the MRPA       . .50
2.7     Number, Type and Fleet Size of Municipal and
Intermunicipal Bus Companies in the MRPA                  51
2.8     Vehicle Occupancy, Trip Distance, Speeds and
Fares by Mode in the MRPA.                                52
2.9     Vehicle Registration by Municipality in the MRPA            53
2.10    The Availability and Cost of Parking in the
Porto Alegre CBD   .                .54
2.11    Private Automobile Owner/User Charges in the MRPA           55
2.12    Modal, Purpose and Time Distribution of
Passenger Trips in the MRPA.                              56
2.13    Municipal Shares in Trip Generation in the MRPA             57
2.14    Daily and Peak-Hour Vehicle Traffic Levels and
Growth Rates on BR-116 in the MRPA                        58
2.15    Station-to-Station Daily Passenger Traffic - 1985           59
2.16    Station-to-Station Daily Passenger Traffic - 1990           60
2.17    Station-to-Station Daily Passenger Traffic - 2000           61



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
3.1     Train Operations and Operating Costs (3 pages) .e          62-64
3.2     Permanent Way Maintenance Equipment .65
3.3     Depot Maintenance Equipment (2 pages) .66-67
3.4  Technical Assistance Program .68
3.5  Project Cost Estimates .69
4.1     Project Implementation Schedule .70
4.2     Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan (2 pages)    71-72
4.3     Estimated Disbursement Schedule .73
5.1     Forecast of TRENSURB's Financial Statements .74
5.2     Financial Sensitivity Analysis .75
6.1     Economic Analysis - Alternative I .76
6.2  Economic Analysis - Alternative II .77
6.3     Economic Analysis - Alternative III .78
6.4     Economic Analysis - Alternative IV .79
6.5     Economic Analysis - Alternative V .80
6.6  Economic Analysis - Base Case .81
6.7     Economic Road Vehicle Operating Costs .82
6.8  Economic Rail Operating Costs .83
6.9  Passenger Travel Time Costs .84
ANNEXES
1.      Description and Status of First Urban
Transport Project ..................................    85
2.      EBTU's Organization, Resources and Finances ..........    87
3.      Assessment of the Development Master Plan
for the MRPA .92
4.      Land Use Alternatives and Travel Demand
Forecasts .94
5.      Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ......................................    100
CHART
1.  Organization of EBTU .101
MAP
IBRD 14688 - Brazil - Second Urban Transport Project -
Porto Alegre Metropolitan Area






I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.   Urban Structure and Trends
1.01      Brazil's urban growth during the period 1950-1970 was quite rapid,
with the country's urban population (as measured by an international standard
definition of 20,000 or more inhabitants) increasing from 11 million in
1950 to 36 million in 1970, an increase of about 6% per annum compared with
a figure of about 3% per annum for the overall rate of population growth in
the country. The proportion of total population that is urbanized increased
from a level of only 16% in 1940 to nearly 40% in 1970 (Table 1.1). The
highest growth rates in the 1960s were recorded in medium-sized cities of
between 100,000 and 200,000 inhabitants. During the 1970s, these trends are
believed to have continued, but definitive data will not be available until
the 1980 census is completed.
1.02      Geographically, urbanization has been unevenly distributed.  Growth
rates have been highest in the central western region, primarily because of
the growth of Belo Horizonte and Brasilia, and lowest in the northeast region
despite the rapid growth of its three metropolitan areas: Fortaleza, Recife
and Salvador. The dominance of the southeast (mainly Sao Paulo and Rio de
Janeiro) in the urban population has been offset somewhat by the growth of
cities in the central west and in the state of Parana in the south, although
not sufficiently to alter the large imbalance between the southeast and other
regions in the ratio of urban to total population.
1.03      The rapid rate of population growth in the large metropolitan areas
is mostly explained by migration from the interior. Large numbers of this
migrant labor force, which is relatively poor and lacking in industrial
skills, are forced to seek low paying jobs, sometimes in the informal sector.
Municipal governments, therefore, are faced with the problem of supplying
essential public services to an expanding urban population, while the tax base
to support these services is not growing nearly as fast. These trends have
become of increasing concern to urban planners.
B.   Urban Policy
1.04      Federal urban policy was first directed at the large metropolitan
areas. In order to deal with the problem of coordinating urban policy in
these areas, the Government, in 1973, established the administrative boundaries
for eight metropolitan areas: Belem, Fortaleza, Recife, Salvador, Belo
Horizonte, Sao Paulo, Curitiba and Porto Alegre. The ninth, Rio de Janeiro,
was added in 1974. The states in which these metropolitan areas are located
have all established metropolitan planning agencies, the responsibilities of
which range between those which are purely planning agencies (e.g., Porto
Alegre) and those which also fund and execute projects (e.g., Recife).
However, none of these state agencies has a government status. The hierarchy
of governments in Brazil goes from the municipal to the state to the federal
level. There is no metropolitan government as such, which sometimes makes
coordination among municipalities difficult.
1.05      A national urban policy was initiated with the Second National
Development Plan (II PND), which covered the period 1975 to 1979. The urban
development strategy contained within the II PND sought to:



- 2 -
(a) consolidate the system of metropolitan areas and introduce
measures to prevent the additional concentration of demo-
graphic and economic growth in the southeast region, par-
ticularly in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo;
(b) encourage the development of medium-sized cities (between
50,000 and 500,000 inhabitants) in all regions to reinforce
an existing development trend; and
(c) encourage the development of settlements in the interior.
Overall, federal government actions have been consistent with these objectives
regarding the pattern of urbanization. Nevertheless, despite these efforts,
the large metropolitan areas continue to attract many migrants - a trend which
is expected to persist unabated through most of the next decade. State
governments will have to increase their efforts if the national objectives are
to be substantially realized. The urban strategy contained in the recently
formulated Third Development Plan (1980-1985) further promotes these objectives,
but, in addition, emphasizes the development of agriculture to reduce the
overall rate of urbanization.
1.06      The institutional structure exists for carrying out the federal
government's urban policy. In 1974, the National Commission on Metropolitan
Regions and Urban Policy (CNPU) was set up as an interministerial agency to
promote and coordinate national urban development policy. To finance urban
development projects, the National Urban Development Fund (FNDU) was also
created. A special Urban Transport Development Fund (FDTU) was established as
a sub-account of FNDU to specifically finance urban transport projects. The
Brazilian Urban Transport Corporation (EBTU) was later established to administer
the FDTU (para 1.15).
1.07      Following the change of government in March 1979, CNPU was termi-
nated and the new government created the National Council on Urban Develop-
ment (CNDU). The Ministries of Planning, Finance, Industry, Commerce,
Transport and the Interior are represented on the Council, together with
the Secretary General of the Ministry of Planning (SEPLAN) and the presidents
of the National Housing Bank (BNH) and EBTU. The Council is chaired by the
Minister of the Interior. CNDU has assumed all of the responsibilities of the
former CNPU and has recently defined the nation's urban policy objectives
for the period 1980-1985. Consistent with the objectives of the II and III PND
in seeking to redirect migration from the metropolitan areas to the secondary
and smaller cities, CNDU is proposing that the nine metropolitan areas, medium-
sized cities and small cities receive about 50, 40 and 10% of the available
federal funds, respectively, over the period 1980-1985. This allocation
would be effected and monitored by the respective executing agencies, namely
EBTU, BNH and the National Department for Sanitation (DNOS).
1.08      There are, however, several reasons to be concerned about the
probability of the above policy objectives being successfully implemented.
First, although responsible for the overall coordination and integration of
urban policy, it has yet to be seen whether CNDU will be able to exercise
any influence on urban area policies other than through an advisory role.
Specifically, the metropolitan area master plans are not approved by CNDU, but
by the respective states. The metropolitan areas send their master plans to
CNDU only after approval by the state. CNDU's role is essentially to review
the various sector investment items within the master plans in order to
coordinate any possible involvement of federal sector agencies. CNDU is



-3-
currently studying the need for new legislation that would make participation
of federal sectoral agencies in a given metropolitan area conditional upon
CNDU's approval of the master plan. If such legislation is adopted, CNDU
could use any newly acquired influence to try to strengthen the planning
agencies at the local level rather than to direct their activities from
Brasilia. However, to be successful in performing even this limited additional
function, CNDU, with only about 20 professional staff at present, would have
to recruit more qualified personnel.
C.   Urban Transport
(i) General
1.09      An overview of urban transport in Brazil reveals certain problems,
patterns and changes which are common to many of the country's urban areas.
During the last several years, most urban areas have experienced large in-
creases in the demand for transport services. In the nine metropolitan
regions, the number of daily passenger trips by all modes increased by 9%
per annum between 1968 and 1975, almost twice the rate of growth of the urban
population. As previously mentioned (para 1.03), a large portion of the popu-
lation growth in these areas is explained by in-migration from the rural areas
within the same state and, in some cases, from the neighboring states as
well. From a transport point of view, what is important is that this migrating
population, which is generally of low income, tends to locate on the periphery
and non-central parts of the metropolitan region, where housing is cheaper but
where transport service (including access to job market centers) as well as
other public services is more limited. In contrast, transport infrastructure
tends to be concentrated in those parts of the metropolitan region which are
closest to the central city and which link centers of employment with the
residences of higher and middle income groups whose principal mode of transport
is the private automobile. It is no coincidence that the transport infrastruc-
ture serving these areas tends to be primarily road based, further encouraging
the use of private automobiles, normally to an extent well beyond the space lim-
itations of the central area, resulting in high economic and environmental costs.
1.10      This situation is reflected in the usage and characteristics of
the principal urban transport modes of bus and automobile: the users of the
former being largely of low income and traveling longer commuting distances
to work from areas that are not particularly well served by public transport
(bus or other modes); and the users of the latter being essentially of high
or middle income and traveling shorter commuting distances on roads for
whose limited space buses must compete with the automobile. In the last few
years, however, bus services in certain corridors in some urban areas have
been given priority through the introduction of exclusive bus lanes. This
approach is an important part of the First Urban Transport Project (Loan No.
1563-BR), the scope and status of which are discussed in Annex 1. For the
most part, however, in Brazil, as in many other countries, this type of
change is relatively new.
1.11      Urban rail transport is a significant mode of transport only in
Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, where each of the systems carries about 500,000
passengers,daily. Very limited suburban railway services also exist in Belo
Horizonte, Salvador and Recife. The service in Porto Alegre (the site for
the proposed project) is virtually non-existent with only two commuting trains
daily in each direction on a deteriorated track system (para 2.20).



- 4 -
1.12      In 1976, the modal distribution of total daily person trips in the
nine metropolitan regions ranged as follows: for buses, from 71% in Recife
and Belo Horizonte to 54% in Sao Paulo; for autos, from 35% in Sao Paulo to
22% in Rio de Janeiro; for taxis, from 7.6% in Belem to 1.6% in Porto Alegre;
and for person trips by other modes, 8% in Sao Paulo to 1.0% in Curitiba.
While the bulk of demand is carried by buses, their share of traffic has been
falling at the expense of the car. Moreover, in terms of the number and
composition of vehicles during the peak period, which determines road capacity,
cars in many urban corridors represent as much as 75% of the total number of
vehicles on the road despite the fact that they may account for only 30% of
the total passengers carried. Since 1965, the automobile fleet has grown at
an average rate of 11% per annum. In 1975, private vehicle ownership in the
nine metropolitan regions reached 2.3 million vehicles, resulting in an average
motorization rate of 80 automobiles per 1,000 inhabitants. A comparison of
motorization rates in selected urban areas is shown in Table 1.2. Clearly, a
reduction in the use of the private automobile in urban areas and a correspond-
ing increase in the use and provision of public transport services should be
and, in fact, is a fundamental objective of national urban transport policy.
This objective is important not only because of the attendant fuel savings,
which would be significant, but because, in many cases, lack of public trans-
port access to job centers more than proportionately affects the urban poor.
(ii) Coordination and Planning at the Local Level
1.13      The extent and quality of urban transport coordination and planning
vary among the different regions but all are faced with a similar problem--
how to plan and manage a transport system in a metropolitan region consisting
of many municipalities, each with its own administrative powers, when the
necessary inputs for, and effects of, this transport system extend well beyond
the administrative boundaries of any one municipality. A possible solution
would be to create a metropolitan-wide transport coordinating/regulatory
agency, which sometimes requires a state law. In some Brazilian metropolitan
areas, adaptations of this type of institution already exist, and, in others,
plans (or, in some cases, draft legislation) exist to create them. These
organizations are sometimes referred to by the name Empresa Metropolitana de
Transportes Urbanos (EMTU). In addition to regulation and coordination, some
of the existing organizations are also involved in the operation of some trans-
port enterprises. This practice has a high probability of creating a conflict
of interest, and it is, in principle, undesirable for such organizations to
become directly involved with the ownership or operation of transport enter-
prises. An entity, called Nucleo Metropolitano de Transportes (NMTU), with
only coordinating and regulatory responsibilities, was recently created
(December, 1979) by the State Governor of Rio Grande do Sul for the Porto
Alegre Metropolitan Area, the influence area for the proposed project
(para 2.27 through 2.29).
(iii) National Planning, Investment and Policy
1.14      Federal government involvement in urban transport is accomplished
directly through an organization specifically established to serve in this
capacity, the Brazilian Urban Transport Corporation (EBTU), and indirectly
through the government's support to the Federal Railway (RFFSA) and the Federal
Highway Department (DNER), both of which, to some extent, invest in urban



-  -
trans,og-rt    jects.  However, investments of this type by- RFFSA and DNER are
expected, ia th£e f£ture, to become much smaller sirice present policy, as much
as possibie, is to channel all federal spending in this sector through EBTU.
1.15,     EBTIJ was established by law in November 1975.  It is a federal
government-owned enterprise under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Trans-
port but having administrative and financial autonomv.. independent juridical
staLtus and its o. assets and iiabilities.  The organizational structure
of EBTU  is shown in Chart 1. EBTU agreed during negotiations to employ
consuLtants, by December 31, 1980, to improve its internal accounting,
budgeting and control procedures and to discuss with the Bank the consultants'
recommendationsi  The details regarding EBTU's organizational structure,
financial perf?ormatnce, budget, accounting and audit systems are presented in
Annex 2.  The Company's basic function is to promote national urban transport
policies through its support of certain projects and programs which it deems
to be in this interest (EETU's relation to and support of the proposed
project is presented in paragraphs 4.07 and 4.10). To finance its expenditures,
EBTTJ has in the past drawn its resources almost entirely from the Urban
Transport Development Fund (FDTU) (para 1.06), which is derived from vehicle
registration and fuel taxes.  Commencing in 1980, EBTU will be able to draw
on an additional major source of funds from the Energy Mobilization Program
(PME), recently created under a new law. 1/ Under this new financing
scheme, beginning in 1980, EBTU will receive about 65% of the PME plus the
FDTUi 2/
1.16      The federal government has already taken some fairly progressive
action with regard to the conservation of petroleum resources in the trans-
port sector by promoting the alcohol fuel program (at present, automotive
gasoline consists of a 20% mixture of alcohol, and all new government cars
and taxis will use 100% alcohol), by eliminating the subsidy element from
gasoline prices and by raising taxes on petroleum products quite substantially.
EBTU, during the first three years of its existence (1976-1978), oversaw an
estimated US$884.6 million (1979 prices) of expenditures on various urban
transport projects. The components selected generally fit within a set of
categories that broadly reflect EBTU's policy goals of promoting public
transport and the efficient management of the urban transport system.
However, EBTU has not had sufficient expertise to convert general national
guide'lines into an integrated, high priority investment program. For this
type of work, there are few experienced professional economists or policy-
oriented urban transport planners on EBTU's current staff. The staff, just
over 300, consists mostly of engineers and architects, the effect of which,
to date, has been to impart an overly physical orientation to the planning
function. While the quality of economic wqork is beginning to improve,
further improvement is necessary.  Under the First Urban Transport
Proiec; . i t was agreed that EBTU would engage consultants to, among other
things, strengthen this area of its operation.  Some consultants have
'1  LTaw 1691 of August 2, 1979.  The PME is derived from a new surtax of
12.5%7 on the CIF value of imported crude oil plus 26% of the revenue
from the existing vehicle registration tax.
2/  T'he FDTU, beginning in 1980, will be composed of 12% of the existing
vehicie registration tax and 45% of the existing surtax (12%) on lubri-
cauts and liquid and gaseous fuels.



-6-
been working with the tecLrincal directoraLe, arnd nor , io
engaged shortly. This process is having a positive impact. However, addi-
tional experienced, professionally trained economists and planners are needed
to occupy staff9 as well as managerial, positions w-hin -he organi:              In
order for the technical directorate to begin to play a more criticai .-c-e in
EBTU's investment decisions, improvements in the quality and quantity of tech-
nical staff are essentiai. Having EBTU rely more heavily upon its technical
directorate is an orientation that the Bank has continued to promote.
(iv) Future Investment Plans
1.17      EBTU's investment plan for the next three years (1980-1982), which
includes the proposed project, was recently formulated by the Ministry of
Transport in order to make use of the resources which are expected to become
available from the PME (para 1.15). The investment plan includes items which
EBTU had already identified and was in the process of preparing plus some
new items introduced by the Ministry of Transport, primarily in the urban rail
subsector, which are expected to save fuel. The average annual expenditure
of this plan (US$883 million) is about three times the amount spent per annum
during the period 1976-1978. The plan's overall objective is the conservation
of energy through heavier reliance on public transport. This is the general
rationale; however, benefit-cost analyses, for the most part, have not yet
been carried out except for a few projects, one of which is the proposed
project for Porto Alegre. Given the large expenditures associated with the
plan, which, if realized, would involve significant changes in intersectoral
priorities that have not yet been promoted by the Government, the plan is
still likely to undergo considerable change in the near future, especially
after the results from further study become available.
1.18      The modal distribution of expenditures under the plan is as follows:
suburban railways in seven metropolitan areas, 59%; urban roads including
buses, 25%; trolley-buses where these already exist, 11%; and marine passenger
ferries, 5%. This modal distribution is significantly different from EBTU's
earlier plan, which emphasized road-related public transport investments. The
change is largely based on the Government's desire to save fuel and, through
the reduction of petroleum imports, also to mitigate its serious balance-of-
payments problems. As desirable as these objectives are, they represent only
a partial view without complete technical and economic studies. Furthermore,
for the rail projects identified, it has not yet been demonstrated how these
particular objectives are served. The suburban railway investment subprogram
needs further careful scrutiny also because of the general policy of the
Ministry of Transport to convert all diesel train services to electric traction,
to substitute broad for all meter gauge track and to build freight bypasses,
when necessary, to separate freight completely from suburban passenger trains.
While, under some circumstances, such actions may be justified, as has been
demonstrated in the case of the proposed project in Porto Alegre (Chapter VI),
it would not be economically sound to regard this approach as having universal
applicability.
1.19      In view of the foregoing, it would be desirable for the Bank to
participate in discussions with the Government as the national urban transport
investment plan begins to be firmed up and more concrete decisions are taken.



-7-
EBTU has already agreed, under the First Urban Transport Project, to adopt,
by June 1980, economic and technical criteria for selecting projects. While
it already appears that there may be some delays in meeting this target, and,
in any case, some further work will need to be done on the criteria for selec-
ting urban rail projects, work in this area is proceeding. What remains to be
arranged is the review process by which the Bank can have some positive impact
on the formulation of the urban transport investment plan. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that, at least once per year, the Government, through
EBTU, would inform the Bank of its National Urban Transport Investment Plan.
These reviews would provide the Bank an opportunity to exchange views with
the Government on the Plan. A draft investment policy statement by EBTU was
also discussed during negotiations. This statement is a quite useful begin-
ning and provides a sound general framework within which to develop more
specific guidelines. The investment policy statement was formally approved
by EBTU's Administrative Council. It was agreed during negotiations that,
before making any substantial change in this statement, EBTU would review and
discuss such changes with the Bank.
D.   Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector
1.20      The Bank's involvement in the urban sector focuses on two main
objectives: the provision of needed services and employment opportunities
for the urban poor, and the strengthening of the planning and implementation
capacity of sectoral institutions at the federal and local levels. Beginning
in 1970, the Bank participated in the financing of a series of water supply
and sewerage projects through BNH in the states of Minas Gerais, Pernambuco,
Bahia and Ceara and in Greater Sao Paulo. The first Urban Transport Project
in five metropolitan areas was approved in June 1978 and is under execution
(Annex 1). A Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project in Greater Sao
Paulo, Bahia and Pernambuco was approved in January 1979. The Medium-Sized
Cities Project, approved in May 1979, contains subprojects in eight cities.
A water supply and sewerage project for the southern states was just approved
in March 1980. Urban projects, now under preparation, include a third water
supply and sewerage project for the state of Minas Gerais, an integrated urban
development project and a third urban transport project.
II. AREA OF INFLUENCE - PORTO ALEGRE METROPOLITAN REGION
A.   Geography
2.01      The suburban railway system to be constructed under the proposed
project would traverse the Metropolitan Region of Porto Alegre (MRPA) from
north to south (Map IBRD 14688). MRPA covers a total area of 5,718 km2 and
is located at the head of an inland waterway which runs parallel to the
coast in the central part of the state of Rio Grande do Sul, the southernmost
state in the country. The principal area of influence for the proposed
project is MRPA's north-south corridor, which comprises ten municipalities
including Porto Alegre (where the line originates) and has a population of



-8-
1.9 million at present. 1/ The line would also serve, although to a more
limited extent, through car and feeder bus connections, the Region's other
four municipalities. 2/ The total population of MRPA is 2.38 million.
B.   Demographic and Economic Base
2.02      MRPA represents over 25% of the State's total population; in 1940,
its share was only 13%. This quite large relative growth of the Region in
the State is essentially explained by the very high rate of migration into
MRPA, predominantly (about 90%) from the secondary centers and small towns in
the interior of the State and, to a lesser extent, from the State of Santa
Catarina to the north. Thus, while annual average rates of population growth
in MRPA have been on the order of 4% since 1960 and closer to 5% since the
mid-1970s, migration has accounted for about 82% of this increase, while
natural population growth has accounted for only about 18%.
2.03      The period since 1950 has also experienced some changes in the dis-
tribution of population growth within MRPA. In the 1950s, the municipality
of Porto Alegre grew at an annual rate of 5% and, by 1960, accounted for some
62% of MRPA's total population. However, by the early 1970s, Porto Alegre's
growth rate had declined to 3.3%, and, by 1974, its proportion of the total
population had fallen to 54%, contrasting with the experience of the outlying
municipalities, whose average rate of growth has been over 5% between 1960 and
1970, and even higher in the 1970s (Tables 2.1 and 2.2). Significantly, al-
though the population of Porto Alegre itself declined in relative terms, it
increased in absolute terms by some 130,000 inhabitants between 1970 and 1974.
The region's north-south corridor grew by over 100,000 in the same period,
which represents a greater absolute, but smaller relative, increase than that
of the east-west corridor. Survey work carried out since 1974 confirms a
continuation of these trends.
2.04      The dominance of MRPA within the State is also reflected in its
relative share of economic activity: in 1970, MRPA accounted for almost 50%
of all industrial production and 40% of total output in the State. Recent
evidence indicates that the rate of economic growth within the Region is
continuing at a high level.
2.05      Total employment in MRPA continues to grow rapidly, increasing from
439,000 in 1971 to an estimated 609,000 by 1976, an annual increase of 5.6%.
The composition of this employment is given in Table 2.3, which shows the
relative decline of the primary and secondary (industrial) sectors and the
striking relative shift of employment to the tertiary or service sector,
which, in absolute terms, increased from 236,000 in 1971 to 377,000 in 1976.
This reflects the rapid increase in the migrant labor force, which is rela-
tively unskilled.
1/   The ten municipalities in the north-south corridor include:  Cachoeirinha,
Compo Bom, Canoas, Estancia Velha, Esteio, Novo Hamburgo, Porto Alegre,
Sao Leopoldo, Sapiranga, and Sapucaia do Sul. The line would pass
directly throgh Porto Alegre, Canoas, Esteio and Sapucaia do Sul.
2/   The other four municipalities, which comprise the so-called east-west
corridor, include: Alvorada, Gravatai, Guaiba and Viamao.



2.06      Despite the relative decline of the secondary sector, there has been
some growth within the sector in the dynamic/higher wage paying industries
such as the electronics and electrical industries. The traditional manufactur-
ing industries in the region include metallurgy, machinery, chemicals and,
particularly in Novo Hamburgo, leather and footwear.
2.07      The spatial distribution of total employment by sector is shown in
Table 2.4. While it can be seen that Porto Alegre dominates MRPA's economic
structure, its dominance is greatest in the sector experiencing the most rapid
growth, namely, services. Also, employment outside Porto Alegre, particularly
in the secondary sector, is concentrated in the north-south corridor.
C.   Distribution of Income, Housing and Public Services
2.08      With respect to the distribution of income in MRPA, interpretation
of trends is difficult both because of the broad census income classes adopted
and also because of the absence of comprehensive income data since 1970. How-
ever, some comparison of the size of the "low income" population between 1970
and 1974 is possible on the basis of census figures for 1970 and survey figures
for 1974. The income level that is commonly accepted in Brazil as the cutoff
point for families in poverty is three times the average minimum wage, which
at present is roughly equivalent to the Bank's relative poverty definition of
one-third of national per capita disposable family income. The data reveal
that, in 1970, 32.9% of all metropolitan households had earnings below two
minimum wages. Although the survey data do not permit an exact comparison,
they indicate that, in 1974, some 42% of all metropolitan area households had
earnings of less than 2.5 minimum wages (Table 2.5). Thus, despite the
Region's relatively high average income per capita in national terms, the
inequality of the income distribution in MRPA is such that between one-third
and one-half of urban households can be defined as the urban poor.
2.09      Reinforcing this conclusion is the available information on MRPA's
housing stock and supply of essential public services. In 1970, roughly 8.3%
of the Region's population was housed in what, by local standards, would be
considered improvised, substandard dwellings, and this figure does not take
into account access to basic infrastructure services. The highest proportions
of such housing were to be found in the municipalities of Sapucaia do Sul, Sao
Leopoldo, Alvorada, Novo Hamburgo and Porto Alegre. Studies by DEMHAB (the
municipal housing department of Porto Alegre) indicate that, in 1972, in Porto
Alegre alone, roughly 124,000 individuals, or about 12.5% of the municipal
population, were living in impoverished, substandard dwellings. By 1977, it
is estimated that the number of persons living in this type of housing had
increased to about 150,000 in the central city alone. Recent information is
not available on the housing conditions of the low income population living
in the peripheral municipalities. However, given the rapid increase in the
migrant population in such locations and the socio-economic characteristics
of this population, it is probable that the housing conditions of the major
migrant residential areas are at least as unsatisfactory as those in Porto
Alegre. In this respect, it is significant to note that, outside Porto
Alegre, both Alvorada and Cachoeirinha (major recipients of migration), were
among the municipalities with the highest population densities in the 1970s.



- 10 -
2.10      The availability of water and sewerage infrastructure within MRPA
is also quite limited. In 1970, the two municipalities having the greatest
proportion of improvised dwellings, Alvorada and Sapucaia do Sul, had the
lowest proportion of their population served by water and sewerage systems;
at that date, less than 20% of the MRPA population was served by a main sewer-
age system. There appears to have been little investment in either water or
sewerage since that time despite the rapid growth of population. Under
the recently approved Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project, some
of the municipalities in MRPA, including Campo Bom, Viamao and Alvorada, are
expected to receive assistance.
D.   Metropolitan Planning and Coordination
2.11      The Metropolitan Region's development master plan was published in
1973. With a horizon year of 1992, the master plan visualized a metropolitan
population by that date of 3.2 million. These projections assumed a more
rapid rate of growth for the metropolitan area's economic base (measured in
terms of job opportunities) than for population; total jobs per person were
expected to increase from 25% in 1970 to 35% in 1992. In addition, the
adopted land use strategy involved the consolidation of growth in the north-
south axis between Porto Alegre and Novo Hamburgo by establishing a few large
centers of development in the corridor. It was assumed that this growth would
be drawn largely from the central area of Porto Alegre. The master plan
also had as its objective the redirection of some population and employment
growth along the east-west axis between Guaiba and Gravatai.
2.12      In August 1975, the Metropolitan Planning Agency (METROPLAN) was
created for the purpose of coordinating land use, social and economic activi-
ties, and public services in MRPA in order to achieve the plan's objectives.
METROPLAN is funded by the State of Rio Grande do Sul, although it is not an
implementing agency. Its role is, rather, one of seeking the required funding
for projects which it identifies and which are then carried out by the execut-
ing agencies. In the area of housing, for example, METROPLAN identifies the
appropriate locations for the construction of low income housing, with the
construction being carried out by the State Housing Company (COHAB), and, in
the case of the municipality of Porto Alegre, its own housing agency (DEMHAB).
To carry out its functions, METROPLAN employs about 55 professional staff.
2.13      The basic problems confronting METROPLAN essentially relate, in the
first place, to the fact that it does not have the legal authority to require
the municipalities to follow the metropolitan master plan; further, it needs
additional technical expertise to assess and plan for the type of basic
structural economic and demographic changes that the metropolitan area is
presently experiencing (paras 2.02-2.07) and that were not anticipated by the
master plan. The master plan did not forecast the large increase in the rela-
tively unskilled, low income migrant labor force or the concentration of
informal job opportunities in the north-south corridor and the attraction of
this axis for the new migrants. A more complete assessment of the master plan
is given in Annex 3. Technical assistance is included in the proposed project
to help METROPLAN revise its present master plan in order to address these
unforeseen large demographic and economic changes (para 3.27).



- 11 -
E.   Prognosis for the Metropolitan Region
2.14      Having assessed the master plan in the light of the most recent
evidence on the growth, structure and spatial distribution of popula_on al^e
employment and found its projections to be at variance with the evidence, it
is necessary to put forward a new prognosis concerning the metropolitan area's
development. It is also necessary to assess the role of the suburban railway
in the light of this prognosis.
2.15      Considering first the question of migration, it is likely that
migration would continue to exceed that assumed in the plan, although this
high rate could be reduced by the implementation of an effective state invest-
ment program for the interior. At present, however, there is no evidence to
suggest that such a policy would be forthcoming in the short term, and, further-
more, it is far from evident whether such a policy to try and reverse present
migration trends would be desirable on economic grounds. Given this situation,
the continuation of present migration rates through the 1980s would not seem
unreasonable.
2.16      The realization of this migration rate would produce a metropolitan
area population of over 3.2 million by 1985 (the master plan had forecast
that this level would be reached in 1992), 4 million by 1990, and, depending
on the rate at which migration subsides in the future, from 4.5 to 5 million
by 2000. This population is also likely to be of a different socio-economic
composition (poorer and less skilled) and to have different locational charac-
teristics than those assumed in the plan.
2.17      It is also probable that the activity rate of registered employment
to population would not increase to the extent assumed by the master plan, if,
indeed, at all. What is likely to increase is informal sector employment,
particularly in tertiary sector activities. Thus, even allowing for the fact
that the adoption of a constant activity rate represents a conservative em-
ployment growth assumption, the clear indication is that population growth
is likely to be higher and registered employment growth lower and of different
sectoral structure than previously assumed. METROPLAN and local staff of the
National Transport Planning Agency (GEIPOT) are generally in agreement with
this scenario.
2.18      The suburban railway project should be considered in the light of
these more probable trends for the future. The most important point is that
recent events have combined to produce a greater need and stronger justifica-
tion for the suburban railway project than had followed from the objectives
of the master plan, essentially because the north-south corridor is developing
much more rapidly than was anticipated. Moreover, the creation of new
activity centers along the line, if introduced under the right conditions
(para 3.27), is likely to facilitate the master plan's objective of dispersing
tertiary sector employment from the Porto Alegre Central Business District (CBD).
F.   Transport Sector
(i) Basic Network
2.19      MRPA's transport system is shown on Map IBRD 14688; it consists
essentially of roads. A main north-south trunk road, BR-116, centrally located



- 12 -
in the corridor, connects the southern- and northernmost municipalities of the
Region. This is a four-lane divided highway with limited access, and, through-
out most of its 42 km except near the city of Porto Alegre, it has two service
lanes on each side to serve the local traffic. Several smaller two-lane east-
west roads feed into BR-116 from both sides. In addition, an east-west trunk
road, BR-290, with four lanes, crosses BR-116 within the municipality of Porto
Alegre at the southern end of the Region. The total route length of the pri-
mary road system within MRPA is about 400 km. The route lengths and number of
lanes for the main roads are shown in Table 2.6.
2.20      An old meter gauge railway line parallels BR-116 between Porto Alegre
and Rio dos Sinos (39 km); it is double track from Porto Alegre to Km 12 and
single track from Km 12 to Rio dos Sinos. There are also the remnants of a
roadbed, where a railway line used to exist, between Rio dos Sinos and Novo
Hamburgo (6 km). The existing track is over 100 years old and is beyond
economical repair. The rolling stock consists of some 15 dilapidated wooden
cars over 50 years old and two diesel locomotives. The federal railway
(RFFSA), which owns these assets, runs two commuter trains daily in each
direction and carries about 700 passengers daily. A suburban train service,
therefore, is virtually non-existent. Freight trains destined for or leaving
the port (three trains daily on average) use this line for some 10 km. The
port itself would be considered medium-size in Brazil. It handled about
5 million tons in 1977, of which grains represented about 80%. The main port
for the state of Rio Grande do Sul is Rio Grande, which is about 300 km to
the south of Porto Alegre.
2.21      So far as planned transport projects in MRPA are concerned, the
local DNER in Porto Alegre has a project proposal (presently shelved) to build
a new highway in the north-south corridor between Porto Alegre and Scharlau
(24 km). The design for this project is completed, but the project has not
been approved, nor is there any indication that it is likely to be approved
in the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, in view of the considerable adverse
effect that such a project would have on the proposed suburban railway project
and the fact that the economic analysis (Chapter VI) indicates that the
proposed project is preferable to this road project if considered an alter-
native, it was agreed with the Federal Government during negotiations that
the Porto Alegre-Scharlau road project would not be implemented until a proper
economic feasibility study, satisfactory to the Bank, is carried out and shows
that this project is economically justified. For other projects, not yet
known, a more general agreement was reached; EBTU, through 1988, agreed to
inform the Bank of any proposed passenger transport related investments
exceeding US$10 million in the influence area of the Bank project, provide
the Bank with information on the expected impact of the proposed investment
on the Bank project, and consult with the Bank before a commitment is made.
(ii) Operations and Traffic
2.22      The dominant mode of travel within MRPA is bus.  Of a total of
1.95 million daily person trips by all modes in 1979, buses account for
1.3 million, or 67%. Cars and taxis account for 27.5 and 1.6% of total
person trips, respectively. All of the bus companies operating in MRPA are
privately owned. Ten companies are licensed by the State of Rio Grande do



- 13 -
Sul to provide intermunicipal services and 32 companies (22 in Porto Alegre
alone) are licensed by the municipalities to provide a municipal service
(Table 2.7). The average fleet size per company providing intermunicipal
services is fairly large (117 buses). The fleet sizes for the companies
providing municipal services vary widely, with those in Porto Alegre aver-
aging about 68 buses and those in the other cities about 22 buses (Table 2.7).
Tariffs for the intermunicipal and municipal services are regulated by the
State and the municipalities, respectively, both of whose decisions are
reviewed by the National Interministerial Council on Prices (CIP), which was
recently incorporated into the newly created Secretariat for Supply and Prices
(SEAP) within the Ministry of Planning. Mid-1979 tariffs for municipal and
intermunicipal bus services average around Cr$ 0.20 and Cr$ 0.30 per pass-km,
respectively. With these tariffs and present costs, all of the bus companies
in MRPA are operating at a profit, although often at the expense of comfort
to the passenger; during the peak hours on many routes, occupancy rates are
double the seating capacity (Table 2.8).
2.23      Despite the dominance of buses as a mode of transport in MRPA, cars
represent, on average, about 50% of the total vehicles on the road system; on
some main roads, such as BR-116, the figure is as high as 74%. During the
last 10 years, car ownership in MRPA has increased from 103,000 to 251,000
vehicles, a compound annual growth rate of about 12%, almost three times the
rate of growth of the population. The bus fleet, on the other hand, increased
by only about 7% per annum during this period (Table 2.9). To date, little
has been done to discourage the use of the private automobile. The creation
of exclusive pedestrian walkways in the Porto Alegre CBD (about 2,520 meters
of street or about 8% of the total street length of the CBD) has helped to a
degree, but a substantial amount of day-term car parking is available in the
central area at relatively low cost (Table 2.10). Private automobile sales,
property and user taxes are shown in Table 2.11.
2.24      Of the total daily person trips by all modes in MRPA, roughly 65%
are between work and home, 25% are study-related and 10% are made for other
purposes. About 72% of all trips are made during the three main peak periods
comprising six hours: 6-8 in the morning, 12-2 in the afternoon and 5-7 in
the evening (Table 2.12). Efforts by the municipality of Porto Alegre to
convince private businesses to stagger working hours and thus to spread this
peak have met with limited success.
2.25      Because of the spatial distribution of population and jobs within
MRPA (paras 2.02-2.07), travel demand is high. With a limited residential
population of only 63,000 or 2.6% of the total Region's population, the CBD,
because of its attraction as a regional job center for the residential popu-
lations living in the suburbs, generates about 266,000 passenger trips daily,
corresponding to a trip generation rate of 4.25 trips per inhabitant per day.
The rest of the municipality of Porto Alegre, which has a fairly large resi-
dential population of more than one million inhabitants, generates another
300,000 trips involving other municipalities. The average trip generation rate
for MRPA is 0.82 (Table 2.13). Average journey distances range from 9 km for
automobile passengers to 21 km for-intermunicipal bus passengers (Table 2.8).
About 55% of all trips at present are intramunicipal (Table 2.13).



- 14 -
2.26      Traffic on many sections of BR-116, the main trunk road in the
Region serving the north-south corridor, has already reached saturation
levels. Daily and peak hour vehicle traffic and growth rates on BR-116 are
shown in Table 2.14. During the peak period, traffic on BR-116 ranges from
some 845 vehicles (1,020 passenger car units, PCUs) per hour in one direction
in the Esteio-Sao Leopoldo section to some 1,371 vehicles (1,771 PCUs) and
2,294 vehicles (2,814 PCUs) in the Esteio-Canoas and Canoas-Porto Alegre
sections, respectively. These congestion levels of traffic between Porto
Alegre and Esteio give rise to very high operating costs and long travel
times which are reflected in average bus speeds of 15-20 km per hour during
the peak period. Much of this congestion is due to the large number of
automobiles on the road. As mentioned (para 2.23), car traffic, which has
been growing at about 4.5% per annum on this road, now accounts for about 74X
of the total vehicles on BR-116. An exclusive bus express lane will soon be
introduced on a section of road within the municipality of Porto Alegre after
some road resurfacing is completed under the First Urban Transport Project
(Annex 1). This action should help to mitigate the problem somewhat, but,
on this section, and certainly on the rest of the road which serves the
metropolitan area, high levels of congestion will remain and become much worse
unless measures are taken to make the available corridor capacity more effi-
cient by reducing car usage and increasing public transport. To accomplish
this goal, in addition to the type of operational improvement provided under
the First Urban Transport Project, a major expansion of exclusively public
transport infrastructure will be required. It is in this context that the
suburban rail solution, designed to attract car and bus users, has been
considered and several mutually exclusive alternatives have been analyzed
(Economic Analysis, Chapter VI).
(iii) Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.27      A transport master plan for MRPA, which, among other things, recom-
mended a suburban train service for the north-south corridor, was completed
by GEIPOT in 1976. 1/ Until recently, a specialized metropolitan-wide trans-
port agency to promote the plan's implementation did not exist. Transport
planning in MRPA was essentially the responsibility of the individual muni-
cipalities, and all licensing, franchises and fares were regulated either by
the municipalities or the State of Rio Grande do Sul, depending on whether the
service, facility, etc. was within or outside the jurisdiction of a single
municipality. During several project preparation missions, the Bank discussed
this situation with local and state government officials who were acutely
aware of the need for coordination at the metropolitan level. In response
to this problem, in December 1979, the State Governor of Rio Grande do Sul
created the Nucleo Metropolitano de Transportes Urbanos (NMTU) to coordinate
and regulate the activities of all transport-related activities within MRPA.
2.28      NMTU replaces the several state agencies previously involved in the
coordination and regulation of transport in MRPA. In addition, under an
existing federal law, the newly created NMTU, in the interest of the Metro-
politan Area and in order to improve its transport system, has the authority
1/   Plano Diretor de Transportes Urbanos da Regiao Metropolitana de Porto
Alegre, 1976.



- 15 -
to also perform many of the regulatory functions which were previously the
exclusive responsibility of the municipalities. During negotiations, the
State of Rio Grande do Sul agreed that NMTU would per.form the following
functions:
(a) grant and review franchises for intra- and intermunicipal
bus companies and taxi operators;
(b) specify bus routes;
(c) coordinate levels of service at intermodal connections;
(d) specify, regulate and review safety standards for all modes;
(e) provide transport enterprises with guidelines for the setting
of tariffs, monitor such tariffs and, if necessary, require
such enterprises to propose tariff changes. (While CIP's approval
of tariffs is still required (para 2.22), it is hoped that, at
some time in the not too distant future, this regulatory control
would be relinquished and only the monitoring activities of NMTU
would be retained.)
(f) regulate the use of the private car through the coordination
of municipal parking policies, user charges and taxes and the
increased availability of public transport;
(g) review and advise on all proposed transport infrastructure
investment decisions in the metropolitan area; and
(h) prepare and annually update an indicative rolling five-year
transport plan to serve as a guide to public and private
investment decisions.
2.29      So far, it is too early to judge the performance of this newly
created agency. Many of NMTU's authorized powers, particularly with regard
to regulation, have not yet, in practice, been transferred from the
municipalities. This aspect should be carefully monitored during project
supervision to ensure that NMTU achieves its intended objective. Technical
assistance to help NMTU perform its designated functions is included in
the proposed project (paras 3.23-3.26).
G.   Travel Demand Forecasts
2.30      For the purpose of forecasting traffic in MRPA, the latter was
divided into a total of 46 zones. With the assistance of METROPLAN, the
employment and population characteristics of each zone were forecast under
four alternative land use scenarios. After analyzing these four alternatives
in the light of recent trends in the growth and spatial distribution of
population and employment (paras 2.02-2.07) and the revised prognosis for the
development of MRPA (paras 2.14-2.18), it was concluded that two alternatives
were most representative of the future evolution of the metropolitan area.
Both involved the same overall rate of growth of employment and population in
the Region, but with somewhat different spatial distributions. Specifically,



- 16 -
the growth in tertiary employment that was forecast for the CBD of Porto
Alegre under one alternative was redistributed to a few commercial centers
along the railway right-of-way under the second land use alternative. The
alternative with the growth in tertiary employment concentrated in the CBD of
Porto Alegre was adopted as the population and employment base for the travel
demand forecasts to be applied to all the project alternatives examined in the
economic analysis (Chapter VI) with the exception of the two alternatives
involving rapid rail mass transit, namely, the proposed project and a light
rail alternative. In both of these cases, the second land use alternative,
which takes into account the development of commercial centers along the line,
was adopted. Then, for each of these two land use alternatives and for each
of the forecast years (1985, 1990 and 2000), the number of trips generated by
each zone, the distribution of trips between zones and, finally, the modal
distribution of trips between zones were estimated. A description of the four
land use alternatives and how the above steps in the transport model were
accomplished is presented in Annex 4.
2.31      The forecast of total daily person trips in the region by mode,
under the assumption that the proposed suburban railway project is imple-
mented, is summarized below:
Forecast Total Daily Person Trips by Mode in MRPA
Year/Mode      Car          Bus       Train      Total
1985      693,371   1,361,255   260,779   2,315,405
1990      746,191   1,533,560   386,180   2,665,931
2000      924,805   1,882,874   586,069   3,393,748
2.32      Under the second land use alternative, in which the rate of economic
growth is the same but its spatial distribution is different, the total number
of trips in the Region is forecast to be the same as that above, but the
distribution of trips, trip lengths and the modal composition are different,
reflecting the fact that the growth in employment expected around certain
stations would, instead, without the rapid rail mass transit system, be
concentrated in the CBD of Porto Alegre. The assumption that the rate of
economic growth in the Region would be the same with or without the rapid rail
mass transit system is generally consistent with the evidence accumulated
from elsewhere, which shows that the introduction of such a system is of
itself unlikely to bring about an increase in a metropolitan area's rate of
economic growth. It does appear, on the evidence available, however, that a
rapid rail mass transit system can influence the distribution of economic
growth and job creation when the growth potential already exists, as appears
to be the case in the north-south corridor of MRPA.
H.   Train Ridership
2.33      After obtaining the forecast of suburban train passengers as
described above, the 46 x 46 matrix of train passenger flows was collapsed
into a 14 x 14 station-to-station matrix. The station-to-station, origin and
destination flows of train passengers in 1985, 1990 and 2000 are presented
in Tables 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17. The most important stations in the system,



- 17 -
in terms of passengers, are: Mercado Central, Sapucaia, Farrapos, Niteroi
and Canoas. Of the 261,000 train passengers forecast for 1985, about 21,400
passengers are expected to be diverted from cars and the rest from buses.
The car diversion figure is expected to reach 72,500 passengers in 1990.
2.34      In 1985, the maximum peak hour flow is forecast at about 39,000
passengers or about 15% of total daily traffic, of which about 80% or 31,000
passengers are forecast to move in the principal direction. This figure of
peak hour traffic in the principal direction is forecast to reach 46,000
passengers in 1990 and 70,000 passengers in 2000. The practical design
capacity of the system under the project is estimated at 48,000 passengers per
hour in one direction, stretchable to 72,000 passengers with some relatively
small investments (para 3.06). Thus, sometime in the early 1990s, some small
changes in the system may be required, but otherwise, the proposed project
should be able to serve the demand quite efficiently through at least the
remainder of this century.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, DESCRIPTION AND COST ESTIMATES
A.  Project Objectives
3.01      The principal objectives of the proposed project to provide a
suburban rail mass transit system in the metropolitan region of Porto Alegre
may be grouped into three main categories: (i) institutional, (ii) economic
efficiency and (iii) urban development.
(i) Institutional
3.02      As part of the preparation of the proposed project, a new company
(the Porto Alegre Metropolitan Rail Mass Transit Company, TRENSURB/P.A.)
was created in mid-April 1980. This company, when fully established, would
be the first of its kind in Brazil, independent of the federal railway.
TRENSURB/P.A. would own and operate the suburban train facilities and equip-
ment provided under the project. This new institution would also break with
past tradition insofar as it is proposed to be run on a commercial basis,
whereby tariffs would be set at levels sufficient to cover at least all
operating costs.
(ii) Economic Efficiency
3.03      The proposed project is expected to achieve a significantly more
efficient modal distribution of traffic and use of all transport facilities
in the metropolitan region's north-south corridor by diverting as many car
passengers as possible and a significant proportion of the intermunicipal
bus passengers to the suburban train service while retaining buses on feeder
lines and on those longer routes which are most economically served by bus.
The reduction of trips made in automobiles, accompanied by the substitution
of public for private modes of transport, is an important element of the
project design.



- 18 -
(iii) Urban Development
3.04      The suburban railway system (with stations approximately every 2 km)
is expected to contribute to the attainment of the metropolitan region's land
use strategy of developing selected employment growth poles in the north-south
corridor by providing the growth stimulus for the development of centers
around certain railway stations along the line. On the basis of all support-
ing evidence, it is unlikely that this type of spatial development could be
achieved by providing additional road capacity which would tend to support a
more linear expansion of the city of Porto Alegre.
B.   Physical Works and Equipment
3.05      The proposed project entails the construction of a surface suburban
rail mass transit system with electric unit trains between the central market
in downtown Porto Alegre and the municipality of Sapucaia, 26.7 km to the north
(Map IBRD 14688). The line basically follows the same right-of-way as RFFSA's
existing obsolete railway line (para 2.20), except for a few deviations to
improve the new line's geometry and also to provide a 2.3 km access to the
central market in Porto Alegre where no railway right-of-way exists at present.
RFFSA has already transferred the right-of-way to TRENSURB/P.A. in exchange
for capital shares (para 5.03). This project constitutes Phase I of a larger
scheme which includes, in Phase II, the stretch between Sapucaia and Novo
Hamburgo (an additional 16 km).  Detailed engineering for the entire 42.7 km
has been completed by GEIPOT. An economic and financial feasibility study
of Phase II is included in the proposed project (para 3.22). The major items
of the proposed project (Phase I) are: tracks, pedestrian and road vehicle
under/over passes, stations, a train maintenance depot with related yard and
equipment, substations and catenary for the provision of electric power, electric
unit trains, automatic signaling, telecommunications, satellite automobile parks
near some stations to attract car users, related civil works and technical
assistance.
3.06      The automatic signaling system is designed for a minimum headway
of three minutes between trains, which would permit a maximum of 20 trains
per hour in each direction. The station platform lengths, which can be
increased in the future as the situation warrants, are 176 m and can accom-
modate trains with compositions of up to eight cars. Thus, with a maximum
occupancy of 300 passengers per car (para 5.07), eight cars per train and
20 trains per hour, the system is estimated to have a practical design capac-
ity of 48,000 passengers per hour in one direction. By lengthening the
platforms to accommodate trains with 12 cars and by making a few other rela-
tively small changes in the passenger areas of the stations, the catenary
and substations, and by lengthening some of the sidings, the system's capacity
could be increased to 72,000 passengers per hour in each direction. A more
detailed description of the project is presented below.
(i) Track, Bridges and Related Works
3.07      The new line will consist of two broad gauge (1.6 m) tracks.  It will
begin in the CBD of Porto Alegre near an old, and architecturally significant,
city landmark--the central market building. From Mercado Central station,
which is the most central point in the CBD, the line will proceed north
following Avenida Maua (presently five lanes with traffic in one direction



- 19 -
which will become four lanes with the railway line) until it reaches the
second station at Km 0.9 (Rodoviaria). There the line will join BR-116, which
at this point is called Avenida Castelo Branco. At this juncture, a road
bridge will be built over the railway line, which will continue on its northerly
course on the western side of BR-116 in the existing railway right-of-way
until Km 19.5. At this point, another road bridge on BR-116 will be built
over the railway line, which will then continue on the eastern side of BR-116
until it reaches the terminal station of Sapucaia (Km 26.7). The line will be
protected along its entire length by a concrete post fence on the urban access
to the CBD and by a precast concrete and wire fence for the remainder. There
are no level crossings; along the route there are 16 pedestrian over/under
passes, ten road vehicle bridges and six railway bridges.
3.08      The old track will be removed and the new track put in place.  The
new track will have welded rails. The line will be relatively straight
(minimum radius in the curves of 200 m, which occurs in only one place) and
level (maximum §radient of 2%, which occurs in a few places on the line).
About 172,000 m of ballast, 93,000 concrete sleepers, 65,000 wooden sleepers
and 9,800 tons of rail will be used. Rail fittings, switches and crossings,
and rail welding materials are also included.
3.09      In order not to cut off the access of freight trains to the port,
which presently use the existing line (para 2.20), a 10-km meter gauge track,
parallel to the two suburban tracks, will be built between Canoas, where
RFFSA's freight line enters the Region, and Km 3.8, where the freight line
deviates to follow its own separate alignment to the port. To the extent
possible, salvageable materials from the old meter gauge tracks will be
used on the parallel freight line. Also, RFFSA's long-distance passenger
trains will originate/terminate in Diretor Pestana station (near the airport),
which is in close walking distance to the suburban line. 1/ Thus, only the
suburban trains will be run on the suburban system.
(ii) Stations
3.10      A total of 14 stations, spaced approximately every 2 km, will be
built along the line (Map IBRD 14688). Mercado Central station (Km 0) with
convenient access to bus transportation and the rest of the Porto Alegre CBD,
will be partly underground and connected to the railway platforms and to the
street above by underground tunnels. Rodoviaria station (Km 0.9), which is
also partly underground, will be conveniently located next to the city's
main bus terminal. Aeroporto station (Km 6.1) will have a 330 m underground
tunnel connecting it with the terminal at the airport. 2/  Satellite automo-
bile parks adjacent to several stations, having a combined capacity of 13,500
automobile spaces, are also included in the project.  Some of the most
important stations, from the point of view of demand for satellite automobile
1/   RFFSA's long-distance passenger service involving Porto Alegre is
insignificant, with, on average, about one train per day. This
situation is not expected to change in the foreseeable future.
2/   About one million passengers a year arrive at and leave from Porto Alegre
Airport. The visitor-to-passenger ratio is about three to one on
average. At present, more than 90% of all passengers and visitors arrive
at or leave from the airport in private automobiles or taxis, which
clearly represents a potential market for the rail mass transit system.



- 20 -
parking facilities, include: Farrapos (Km 4.8), Niteroi (Km 10.5), Canoas
(Km 14.8), Luiz Pasteur (Km 24.7) and Sapucaia (Km 26.7). Consultants,
engaged under the technical assistance program (para 3.23), would identify the
precise locations and sizes of the satellite automobile parking lots.
3.11      Four stations, including the two terminals--Mercado (Km 0) and
Sapucaia (Km 26.7)--and two intermediate stations--Ceasa (Km 8) and Matias
Velho (Km 16.2)--will be provided with railway switches and sidings to allow
for the formation and return of trains. Passengers will enter the platforms
through automatic turnstiles after inserting their tickets. These tickets
will be purchased from ticket sellers in booths in the stations.
(iii) Substations and Catenary
3.12      The line between Mercado Central and Sapucaia will be electrified
with 3 kV (kilo volt) direct current fed into the overhead catenary by two
6 MVA (Mega Volt Ampere) substations located at Km 4.5 and Km 17.9. Electric
energy (hydrogeneration) will be supplied by the State Electric Company (CEEE).
The proposed project can be accommodated within CEEE's present expansion
plans.  Under a Bank loan approved in March 1980, CEEE will expand its sub-
transmission and distribution system in the State.
(iv) Electric Unit Trains and Spare Parts
3.13      The project includes 25 electric unit trains (and related spare
parts) of the same type now being used in Rio de Janeiro. This number should
be sufficient for the first few years of operation. The requirement is worked
out in Table 3.1. Each unit train consists of four cars (two motor coaches
and two trailers). The unit trains can be coupled together, the limit essen-
tially determined by the lengths of sidings and platforms. Initially, two
unit trains will be coupled together during the peak periods (para 5.06).
The cars will be made of stainless steel and be 22 m long, 2.94 m wide and
3.91 m high. Each car will haye 108 seats. The trains will have a maximum
acceleration rate of 0.8 m/sec and a maximum speed of 90 km/hr.
(v) Train Depot and Administration Building
3.14      A train depot for the normal maintenance of trains will be built
at Km 7.3 in an area now owned by RFFSA (Diretor Pestana Yard). The depot
will have six main tracks with a capacity to provide normal periodic main-
tenance for nine unit trains. The average unit train, which is expected to
run about 95,000 km a year, should visit the maintenance depot approximately
once a week for 15 man-hours of work and every two months, four months, and
12 months for 70, 100 and 150 man-hours of work, respectively. General
overhauls should not be required for at least 0.5 million km, or during the
first five years of operation. Thus, a workshop for general overhaul is in-
cluded only in Phase II. A small administration building will be constructed
next to the train depot, which will house the train operations center and all
the administrative offices.
(vi) Track Maintenance and Maintenance Depot Equipment
3.15      The proposed project also includes equipment for track maintenance
and for the train maintenance depot (Tables 3.2 and 3.3).



- 21 -
(vii) Signaling
3.16      The signaling system will be bidirectional centralized traffic
control (CTC) which, if necessary, will permit trains on the same track to
run safely in opposite directions between stations. The CTC control room
will be located in the operations center of the administration building.
The operations center, from information recorded on its display panel, will
be able to follow all line operations, train locations and switch and signal
positions.
(viii) Telecommunications
3.17      The telecommunications system will provide for telephone units
every 500 m along the line and, through an underground cable, the capability
for communication between the control room and every station, between stations,
and between the management and stations/depot/operations center and points
outside the system. There will also be telephone communication between the
trains and the stations and operations center.
(ix) Land
3.18      The project cost estimates (para 3.28) include the expropriation
of some pr vate land which is required for the satellite automobile parks
(297,000 m ) and for the construction of some under/over passes and substations
(42,000 m ) which are partly outside RFFSA's existing right-of-way. No parti-
cular difficulties are expected in acquiring this land for the project. In
addition, the project cost estimates include provision for the expropriation
of some private land to be reserved for the construction of additional satellite
car parks in the future (for about 9,000 automobile parking spaces) and for
the continuation of the line to dovo Hamburgo under Phase II when it becomes
economically justified (63,000 m ). The public lands, which are included in
the project (but not in the cost estimates) and which have been contributed
to the project in exchange for capital shares in TRENSURB/P.A. (para 5.03),
include: RFFSA's right-of-way and the area for the train depot and administra-
tion building (500,000 m ) and State land near Aeroporto Station (12,000 m
Porto Alegre municipal land for Mercado Station and the urban access along
Avenida Maua (about 24,000 m ) has been designated for this purpose and is
expected to be transferred to TRENSURB/P.A. in the next few months in exchange
for equity shares in the company (para. 5.03).
C.   Complementary Institutions and Policies
3.19      To complement the physical work, certain institutional/organizational
changes are also included in the project: (a) the development of the newly
established NMTU so that it may become an effective transport coordinating and
regulatory agency at the metropolitan level (paras 3.23-3.26); and (b) the
setting up of TRENSURB/P.A. to own and operate the suburban rail service
(Chapter V). Also, in addition to the incentive policy of providing satellite
automobile parks in some of the outer stations to attract automobile passengers
to the suburban train system (para 3.10), experience elsewhere has shown that
it would be necessary to have a disincentive policy as well, to discourage
commuters from using their cars. The automobile parking restrictions program
recently adopted by the municipality of Porto Alegre provides a useful frame-
work within which to work. A program, including the necessary enforcement, to
reduce substantially the availability of day-term automobile parking spaces in
the CBD of Porto Alegre, in conjunction with the introduction of the suburban



- 22 -
train service, is included in the proposed project. During negotiations,
the Federal Government, through an existing agreement with the Municipality
of Porto Alegre, agreed to cause the latter to implement this program which
consists of (i) the elimination of all commuter-related day-term street and
open-lot automobile parking in the CBD of Porto Alegre, and within the first
ring road that surrounds it, within three months of the commencement of
TRENSURB's operations, and (ii) the continuation of the Municipality's prohibi-
tion on the construction of new automobile parking garages in this area. The
State, which employs the police force in MRPA, agreed, during negotiations, to
enforce the above program. Further measures to control the use of private
automobiles, such as area license and other pricing schemes, taxes, restricted
zones and car pooling would be examined by consultants during project implemen-
tation (para 3.24).
D.   Technical Assistance
3.20      The scope, timing and cost of the technical assistance provided
under the proposed project are shown in Table 3.4. There are basically three
parts to this technical assistance program which relate to (i) the setting up
and operation of TRENSURB/P.A.; (ii) other complementary transport policies
and programs which would be carried out by NMTU; and (iii) the urban impact
of the proposed project. The consultants, to provide the technical assistance,
would be retained by TRENSURB/P.A., NMTU and METROPLAN as described below
(paras 3.21-3.27). Consultants for the supervision of the physical works and
procurement of equipment are discussed in paragraph 4.03.
(i) TRENSURB/P.A.
(a) Setting Up TRENSURB/P.A.
3.21      Consultants are needed to assist with the setting up of TRENSURB/P.A.
All that exists at present is a legal structure for a company. The consultants
would be retained by TRENSURB/P.A. They-would advise on staffing, the training
of personnel before and after train service begins, organizational structure,
management, accounting, finance and operations. In addition, the consultants
would assist with the implementation of some of their recommendations during
the first year of operation.
(b) Phase II Economic and Financial Feasibility Study
3.22      Consultants are needed to carry out an economic and financial feasi-
bility study for Phase II, which involves extension of the system from Sapucaia
to Novo Hamburgo (16 km). Only if the extension of the system in the next
five years is economically justified would the consultants work out the details
regarding the required changes in operations, staffing, management, accounts,
tariffs, etc., the changes needed in bus routes and the financing plan for
this new capital investment. The consultants would be retained by TRENSURB/P.A.
(ii) Other Complementary Policies and Programs
(a) Satellite Automobile Parks, Auto Restraint Policy and Monitoring
3.23      While some preliminary analysis has been carried out with respect to
the demand, and available space, for satellite automobile parks, and provision
for a certain global capacity of 13,500 automobile spaces has been included
in the project, more details are required before a definitive construction
plan can be executed. Consultants would be engaged to identify the precise
location and sizes of the satellite automobile parking lots, to design such
facilities and to identify the land which should be expropriated now for the
future provision of an additional 9,000 automobile parking spaces at satellite
automobile parks.



- 23 -
3.24      The consultants would also study the various options, in addiLion
to parking controls (para 3.19), to restrain auto use in MRPA in general and
in the north-south corridor in particular, and to recommend a complete auto
restraint program which the Bank and the State Government would then discuss
in order that the State, through NMTU, might take appropriate action. In
addition, the consultants would, during the first two years that the railway
is operating, monitor the impact of the auto restraint program on the entire
Region, as well as the extent of car passenger diversion to the rail mass
transit system. Should certain problems arise, the consultants would propose
solutions which the Bank and the State Government through NMTU would discuss
prior to a course of action being adopted. The arrangements for these Bank-
Government discussions at the end of the study period and during the monitoring
phase, and the State Government's commitment to take appropriate action,
through NMTU, were discussed and agreed during negotiations. The consultants
to carry out all of the above work would be retained by NMTU.
(b) Bus Routes
3.25      With the train service, some existing bus routes become uneconom-
ical; others become more important as feeder links to the railway line, and
others should simply continue because they serve a population which is more
economically served by bus. In the modal split and economic analyses, these
factors have been taken into account in a general way, but it was not possi-
ble to identify the specific bus routes in each case. Before the railway
service is operational, however, this detailed information would be needed
by NMTU, which would be responsible for implementing the new bus program.
Therefore, consultants would be engaged to identify those specific bus routes
which should be discontinued and those which should serve as feeder links
to the railway line. The consultants would also make recommendations on
actions regarding those bus companies which would be adversely affected by
these changes. The consultants would be retained by NMTU.
(c) Tariff Policy
3.26      Consultants are needed to study the levels and structure of all
transport tariffs in the Region, including the charges for satellite and
other automobile parking, and to make specific recommendations on how they
should be set after considering all economic efficiency, income distribu-
tional and fiscal factors. The consultants would be retained by NMTU.
(iii) Urban Impact
(a)   Commercial Center Development and Master Plan Assistance
3.27      With the introduction of the suburban railway service, the areas
around some stations are expected to become more attractive for certain
kinds of commercial development. This type of development has been assumed
to occur under the land use alternative adopted for the analysis of the pro-
posed project. However, this analysis was undertaken with the limited objec-
tive of deriving the distribution of employment and population by zone in
order to generate person trips in the transport model. Specific questions
concerning the potential for different types of businesses and the conditions
necessary for its realization and implementation were not addressed. There-
fore, consultants are needed to assist METROPLAN, which has agreed to
participate in such an exercise, in identifying the potential for specific
types of commercial development at certain locations along the line where
such development would be beneficial from a social as well as private point



- 24 -
oL view, and to recommend how best to create the planning and organizational
conditions necessary for the achievement of such development. This would
include consideration of the issue of whether or not a public real estate
company or some other institution would be needed to manage the development.
The real estate within the stations would be managed by the new railway com-
pany. The consultants would be retained by METROPLAN. The same consultants
would also assist METROPLAN with the updating and revision of its land use
master plan (para 2.13).
E.   Cost Estimates
3.28      The cost estimates for the proposed project are based on the GEIPOT
engineering design study of 1976, adjusted for changes suggested in discussions
with the Bank. Base period unit prices are estimated as of January 1980.
The cost of the technical assistance has been estimated on the basis of some
351 man-months of consulting services at an average cost per man-month of
US$10,000 and US$6,000 for foreign and local consultants, respectively (Table 3.4).
The total cost estimates for the entire project, broken down by foreign and
local costs for each year, are shown in Table 3.5 and summarized in paragraph
4.06. The total project cost is estimated at Cr$ 10.0 billion in January 1980
prices (US$232.8 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of
US$117.2 million or 50%. To these base period estimates, price and physical
contingencies have been added. Physical contingencies include 5% for cement,
3% for steel, 5% for cables, 5% for substation spare parts and 10% for fuel.
Price contingencies were based on the following cost increases for both civil
works and equipment: 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982, and 7% in both
1983 and 1984. No differentiation was made between local and foreign price
contingencies on the assumption, which is considered reasonable, that the
cruzeiro would be devalued frequently in order to maintain a relatively
constant relationship between local and foreign prices. The physical and
price contingencies taken together represent about a 34% increase over the
base cost estimates.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND THE PROPOSED LOAN AND BORROWER
A.   Project-Implementing Office
4.01      To implement the proposed project, which is estimated to take three-
and-a-half years (para 4.04), a project-implementing office or Nucleo Executivo
de Projecto (NEP) would be established within TRENSURB/P.A. The structure and
key staffing of NEP were discussed during the preparation of the project. The
establishment of NEP within TRENSURB, with staff satisfactory to the Bank, would
be a condition for loan effectiveness. Since the first order of priority
would be the commencement of the physical works, initially TRENSURB/P.A.
would consist almost entirely of NEP with a few other personnel to handle the
administrative responsibilities of the new company until its full structure
and staffing (to be recommended by consultants, para 3.21) are in place. All
aspects of TRENSURB/P.A., in addition to its relation to NEP,. are discussed in
Chapter V.
4.02      Some steps have already been taken toward the formation of NEP.  A
highly qualified GEIPOT engineer, who has been supervising the project design
since 1976, has been chosen as the future head of NEP. In addition, some
other engineers from GEIPOT, RFFSA and EBTU are already working with him.



- 25 -
Also RFFSA, EBTU, GEIPOT and METROPLAN have been designated by the Minister
of Transport to provide NEP with the necessary technical services. It is
envisaged that RFFSA would play a key role in carrying out railway physical
works. During negotiations, agreement was obtained from RFFSA, EBTU, GEIPOT
and METROPLAN that they would provide the necessary technical services to NEP.
4.03      During project implementation, the principal functions of NEP within
TRENSURB/P.A. would be (a) to arrange for the expropriation of all land under
the project, including the land for the satellite automobile parks; (b) to
prepare contracts and to call for and evaluate bids; and (c) to award contracts
to carry out the physical work as well as the technical assistance according
to the agreed schedule. Supervision of construction and equipment procurement
would be provided by consultants. Provision for the cost of operating NEP
and the consultants is included in the project costs (Table 3.5). At the end
of project implementation, NEP within TRENSURB/P.A. would be disbanded, but
it is possible that NEP and much of its staff could be incorporated into the
technical department of TRENSURB/P.A. These matters would be studied by
consultants under the technical assistance program (para 3.21).
B.   Implementation Schedule
4.04      The project implementation schedule is shown in Table 4.1.  The
preparation and award of contracts are expected to be accomplished during
the latter part of 1980 and the early part of 1981. Actual physical work is
expected to begin on a large scale by mid-1981 and to be completed by the
early part of 1984. Trains are expected to be running by mid-1984. The first
full year of operations would be 1985. The work on various items would begin
at essentially the same time at several different points along the line. Thus,
work on track infrastructure, stations, bridges and buildings is expected to
begin by mid-1981, followed by the construction of the track. This work is
expected to be divided into many different contracts. In order not to inter-
rupt freight traffic for the port during construction, one of the existing
tracks would continue in use until the new freight line is in place on the
side of the suburban line. The supply of equipment and material for electri-
fication and signaling would begin in early 1982 and the corresponding physical
work in mid-1982. The supply of equipment and material for the telecommunica-
tions system and the first deliveries of unit trains would begin in mid-1982.
During the construction of the elevation of Avenida Castelo Branco and the
urban access to Mercado Station on Avenida Maua, certain temporary traffic
arrangements would need to be made, for which the assistance of the Muni-
cipality of Porto Alegre would be required.
C.   The Proposed Loan
4.05      A loan of US$159 million is proposed, which would cover the full
foreign exchange costs (including contingencies) of the project. The equip-
ment and services, which would be financed by the proposed loan, are shown in
Table 4.2 and include unit trains and spare parts, track materials, signaling
equipment, catenary and substation equipment, maintenance depot equipment,
track maintenance equipment and technical assistance.



- 26 -
4.06      A comparison of the total project costs and the proposed Bank
loan are shown below:
US$ thousand equivalent
(including all contingencies)
Project Costs        Proposed Bank
Local   Foreign   Total        -Loan--
Track infrastructure                     13,159    1,841   15,000           -
Track superstructure                     20,416   14,003   34,419        12,615
Pedestrian and road vehicle
under/over passes                      30,968    4,617   35,585           -
Stations                                 15,589    7,448   23,037
Administration and maintenance
depot buildings                         9,936       795   10,731          -
Maintenance depot equipment                 208    2,542    2,750         2,542
Permanent way maintenance equipment        -          474      474          474
Telecommunications                        2,094    3,341    5,435           -
Signaling                                 3,383    9,228   12,611         8,410
Electrification                           4,630   12,480   17,110        10,683
Satellite car parking                     3,560       846    4,406          -
Expropriations                           23,266       -     23,266          -
Unit trains                              22,891   91,560  114,451       114,451
Unit train spare parts                    1,915    7,665    9,580         7,665
Technical assistance                      1,752    2,160    3,912         2,160
Total                              153,768  159,000  312,768       159,000
Note:  The division between local and foreign costs is based on an analysis
of whether Brazil is a net importer of a particular item and on the
likely source of supply. Specifically, in the case of unit trains, it
was assumed that local bidders would be successful.
D.   The Borrower, Onlending and Project Agreements
4.07      The Borrower of the proposed loan would be the Federative Republic
of Brazil. EBTU, in its capacity as the financial agent for the Government,
would then onlend to TRENSURB/P.A. the total equivalent of the Bank loan in
cruzeiros. TRENSURB/P.A. would repay EBTU such principal amount over a period
of 12 years, with payments beginning after the third full year of train
operations. The value of the cruzeiros borrowed would be subject to a monetary
correction factor in accordance with changes in the national treasury bond
index. The interest rate would be 5% per annum, which is the prevailing rate of
interest charged by the National Development Bank (BNDE) for similar projects
in Brazil. This onlending arrangement is considered practicable in view of
TRENSURB's prospective financial capability (para 5.15). These matters were
agreed during negotiations. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, which
includes the above conditions, between EBTU on behalf of the borrower and
TRENSURB/P.A., would be a condition for effectiveness of the proposed Loan
Agreement. The Bank would also enter into a joint Project Agreement covering
all aspects of the project with EBTU, GEIPOT, RFFSA, the State of Rio Grande
do Sul and METROPLAN.



27 -
E.   Procurement
4.08      All items to be procured under the proposed loan would be subject to
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
In bid evaluation, Brazilian manufacturers of equipment would be allowed a
preferential margin of 15% of the CIF cost of competing imports, or the
relevant prevailing level of customs duties, whichever is lower.
F.   Disbursements
4.09      Disbursements would be made as follows:
(a)  100% of the foreign expenditures for imported equipment,
materials and unit trains; and/or
(b) 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
equipment, materials and unit trains; and
(c) 60% of the cost of the technical assistance.
An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 4.3. This schedule
is based on the assumption that the proposed loan would become effective
by November 1, 1980.
G.   Financing Plan
4.10      The sources of finance for the capital cost of the proposed project
include: (i) the Bank loan of US$159 million which would be onlent to
TRENSURB/P.A. (para 4.07); (ii) the cash contributions of shareholders of
US$153.8 million in exchange for equity shares in TRENSURB/P.A. (the share-
holding arrangements are discussed in paras 5.01 through 5.04); and (iii) the
land contributions of the shareholders (estimated at US$27.8 million), also
in exchange for equity shares in TRENSURB/P.A. The financing plan is as
follows:
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
FY 1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    Total
Loan                          -    0.10   26.60   63.40   68.50    0.40   159.00
Equity:
EBTU                    1.44    4.32   24.60   25.30   17.90    0.10    73.66
RFFSA                  23.00 a/    -   19.30    7.60   17.90    0.10    67.90
State of R.G. do S.    0.50 a/ 0.62    4.30    6.60    5.40    0.10    17.52
Municipality of P.A.   4.30 a!    -          -       -        -        -     4.30
Other(s) b/                 -    1.42    4.80    7.30    4.60    0.10    48.22
Total               29.24    6.46   79.60  110.20  114.30    0.80   340.60
a/   Land
b/   See para 5.04 for an explanation of the term "other(s)".



- 28 -
H.  Project Risk
4.11      With regard to the execution of the physical works included in the
proposed project, there are no unusual risks. NEP within TRENSURB/P.A.,
with the technical support of RFFSA, GEIPOT, EBTU and METROPLAN, should be
able to complete the project according to the agreed implementation schedule,
which is considered realistic. Significant delays in this area, therefore,
are not expected. With respect to the institutional and policy aspects of the
project, which refer essentially to the operation and financial performance
of TRENSURB/P.A. in the context of the urban structure and transport system
of MRPA, more caution is warranted. (These matters are discussed in more
detail in the next chapter, which deals entirely with TRENSURB/P.A.)
Suffice it to say that the proposed project involves several innovations
in institutions and policies in Brazil (e.g., the first metropolitan rapid
rail mass transit company, the adoption of a pricing principle that allows
tariffs to cover at least all operating expenses, a significant program
of auto restraint measures and the diversion of a large number of car
users to the railway), all of which will have to be monitored very closely.
Therefore, there is a risk inherent in new undertakings of this kind. However,
the Government shares the Bank's desire to have this project succeed in the
institutional and policy areas and thereby serve as a model for the rest of
the country. Sufficient agreements with all the agencies involved, with
clearly defined commitments, have been reached during negotiations. These
commitments, coupled with the technical assistance program, have reduced
the risks to an acceptable level to justify the Bank's participation. During
project supervision, particular attention should be given to monitoring the
development of the NMTU (para 2.29) and to ensuring that the shareholding
structure of TRENSURB/P.A. changes in accordance with the agreed schedule
(para 5.03).
V. THE NEW METROPOLITAN RAIL MASS TRANSIT COMPANY
A.  Ownership, Organization and Financial Policy
5.01      During the preparation of the proposed project, several alternative
approaches to establishing the company to own and operate the suburban railway
service were examined. After considering the various issues, it was agreed
that the most practicable approach, at the present time, would be to initially
establish the new company as a subsidiary of RFFSA (a step which does not
require federal legislation but only the approval of RFFSA's Administrative
Council), and then to increase, as quickly as possible, the shareholdings of
some other shareholders such as EBTU, the State of Rio Grande do Sul, the
municipalities of MRPA and possibly some others (e.g. BNDE), until RFFSA's
shares are equaled or exceeded by those of at least one other shareholder.
As long as no federal agency other than RFFSA would become the largest single
shareholder, federal legislation would not be required. Thus, perhaps more
gradually but with less political uncertainty, the desired result could be
achieved. The intention would be to fully accomplish the shift from the
status of a subsidiary of RFFSA to an independent company with a more diver-
sified share structure well before train operations begin.



- 29 -
5.02      Because all the other approaches involved federal legislative
action which could be lengthy with quite uncertain outcomes and because
RFFSA would play the most important role during the first few years of
physical implementation in any case, the subsidiary approach, as a temporary
arrangement, was considered acceptable provided agreement could be reached
on the time frame for achieving the desired result of an independent metro-
politan rail mass transit company. This time frame was agreed.
5.03      Thus, in mid-April 1980, RFFSA created the subsidiary company of
TRENSURB/P.A. RFFSA's initial participation is based on its contribution of
land. Other shareholders at this time include EBTU, through its contribution
of cash and the State of Rio Grande do Sul through its contributions of land.
The municipality of Porto Alegre is expected to join in the next few months in
exchange for its contribution of land. To confirm their commitment to estab-
lishing TRENSURB as a company, independent of RFFSA, the shareholders and the
Borrower agreed during negotiations to a schedule indicating the transition of
TRENSURB/P.A. from a subsidiary at the outset in which RFFSA holds 78% of the
shares to a non-subsidiary legal status in which, by June 30, 1983, RFFSA
would hold the same proportion of the total shares as EBTU, namely, 39%. The
agreed schedule is as follows:
Cumulative Percentage Shareholding in TRENSURB/P.A.
% by        % by       % by              % by
6/30/80     6/30/81    6/30/82   6/30/83 and thereafter
RFFSA                 78            65        51               39
EBTU                   5            16        31               39
The State              2             3         6                9
Municipality of PA   15             12          5                3
Other(s)               -             4          7               10
5.04      In the above schedule, the shareholder category "others" could
include some other municipalities besides Porto Alegre (although their
present difficult financial position makes it impossible for them to
commit at this time) as well as BNDE. The prospect for BNDE's participation
looks promising, but, again, no commitment can be made at this time. In
the event that the balance of the total shares is not taken up, EBTU and RFFSA
would take up the balance in equal proportion. Hopefully, this contingency
plan would not need to be implemented, and both the other municipalities and
BNDE would be able to participate in the near future. This aspect, as well
as the whole matter of transition from a subsidiary status to corporate
independence, would need to be carefully monitored during project supervision.
5.05      It is expected that TRENSURB/P.A. would be fully operational by the
time the physical works are completed in mid-1984. Most of the details re-
garding TRENSURB's organizational structure, staffing, operation, etc, would be



- 30 -
worked out under technical assistance provided in the project (para 3.21).
It is expected that because the company would be inexperienced at the outset,
although considerable training during project implementation is provided in
the technical assistance program, TRENSURB/P.A. would have to rely to some
extent on RFFSA or on some pool of railway expertise for the provision of
certain technical services. However, TRENSURB/P.A. like any other commercial
enterprise, would obtain these services by entering into normal business
contracts. TRENSURB/P.A. would be run as a commercial enterprise and be
governed by normal financial practices. The financial analysis (para 5.16)
indicates that this is a realistic principle provided that the recommended
operating plan and tariff policy (paras 5.08 and 5.15) are adopted, both of
which are considered reasonable, equitable and economically efficient.
B.   Operations
5.06      During the initial years of operation, TRENSURB/P.A. is expected to
run 11 trains per hour during the peak hours (6-8 in the morning, 12-2 in the
afternocn and 5-7 in the evening) and four trains per hour during the off-peak
period. Thus, the headway between trains would be about 5-1/2 minutes during
the peak hours and 15 minutes during the off-peak period. Train formations
are planned to consist of eight cars or two unit trains coupled together
during the peak hours and four cars or one unit train during the off-peak
period. The fleet requirement has been derived on the basis that, at any
given time, 15% of the fleet would be in the maintenance depot and therefore
unavailable. The average commercial speed of a train, which includes station
stops, is expected to be about 42 km/hr. Thus, with the new train service, it
should take about 38 minutes to go from one end of the line (Central Market,
Porto Alegre) to the other (Sapucaia, Km 26.7).
5.07      The fleet requirement has been derived on the assumption of a maxi-
mum car capaciti of 300 passengers. This implies 192 passengers standing in
an area of 32 m or five to six passengers/m . This parameter was a matter
of considerable interest since comfort will be an important determinant of
the extent to which the train can attract car passengers. It was generally
agreed that 300 passengers per car represents a fairly good, but not excessive,
level of service during the peak hours and that occupancy rates above this
level should be avoided by increasing the size or frequency of trains.
5.08      To run the entire operation during the first few years of train serv-
ice, it is estimated that almost 650 employees would be required (Table 3.1).
These are indicative estimates which, in addition to the detailed structure
and total operation of the new company, need to be studied by consultants
during project implementation (para 3.21). However, because these personnel
estimates, along with the projections of train operations (para 5.06), form
the basis for the costing analysis (para 5.11), on which the tariff policy
(para 5.15) is based, agreement was reached during negotiations on the staff-
ing and operating plans for TRENSURB/P.A., subject to the findings and recom-
mendations of the consultants. The agreed plans are presented below:



- 31 -
Staffing Plan
Levels of Daily                         Ceiling
Passenger Traffic                     No. of Staff
100,000                                 400
150,000                                 500
200,000                                 550
250,000                                 650
300,000                                 700
350,000                                 800
400,000                                 850
450,000                                 950
500,000                               1,000
Initial Operating Plan a/
Operating Day                      18 hours
Peak                       :        6 hours
Off-Peak                   :       12 hours
Headway between Trains
Peak Hours                 :        5.5 minutes
Off-Peak Hours                     15 minutes
Train Composition
Peak Hours                 :        8 cars (2 unit trains)
Off-Peak Hours            :         4 cars (1 unit train)
Average Commercial
Train Speed                     42 km/hr
Average Fleet
Availability                    85%
Maximum Staff                      650 employees
a/   Considered applicable for the first few years of operation.
C.   Accounts
5.09      TRENSURB/P.A. would maintain an accounting system based on sound
commercial practices. The accounts would be designed by consultants under the
technical assistance program (para 3.21). During negotiations, TRENSURB/P.A.
agreed that its financial statements, in addition to the project accounts,
would be audited annually by independent external auditors satisfactory to
the Bank and that these statements would be produced annually and furnished
to the Bank within four months of the end of TRENSURB's fiscal year.



- 32 -
D. Assets and Liabilities
5.10      The forecast of TRENSURB's assets and liabilities in constant
mid-1979 prices for the period 1985-1990 is shown in Table 5.1.  TRENSURB's
assets during this period are forecast to consist exclusively of the items in
the proposed project, including the right-of-way and some other small parcels
of land (para 3.18). In addition, it is estimated that TRENSURB would accumu-
late reserves, built up from its forecast net surplus, which, it is assumed,
TRENSURB would hold in the form of interest-bearing bank deposits. TRENSURB's
liabilities during this period are forecast to consist entirely of one long-
term debt based on the loan from EBTU (para 4.07). TRENSURB's equity would
consist of (a) share capital, which represents the equity contributions from
TRENSURB's shareholders (para 5.03); and (b) reserves, which represent the
accumulation of TRENSURB's yearly net surplus. It would not be financially
prudent for the new company to enter into additional new borrowings during
the firs- three years of operation.  During negotiations, TRENSURB/P.A. agreed
that that it would not enter into borrowings, other than the one mentioned
above, before the fourth year of full operations, and then only if such
borrowings would not result in a total annual debt service, including the
loan from EBTU, which is greater than the average annual net operating
income plus depreciation for either the immediately preceding two years of
operation or for a later 24-month period ended prior to the incurrence of
such debt service, whichever is greater.
E   Operating Costs
,.1i      A forecast of TRENSURB's operating costs, in constant mid-1979
prices, at different levels of traffic, is shown in Table 3.1. During the
initial period of operation when train ridership is expected to reach about
260,000 passengers daily, total working costs are estimated to be about
Cr$ 2.66 per passenger. After allowing for depreciation on all fixed assets,
total operating costs are estimated at Cr$ 4.82 per passenger. Depreciation,
personnel, material and energy costs represent about 45%, 38%, 9% and 8% of
the total operating costs, respectively. At the level of traffic forecast
for 1990 (around 386,000 passengers daily), unit operating costs fall to
about Cr$ 4.06 per passenger, indicating some modest economies of scale.
5.12      These estimates are based on various operating assumptions which
were analyzed in considerable detail in joint discussions between the Bank
and the technical experts from RFFSA and GEIPOT. In particular, staffing,
which represents about 38% of the total operating costs, is a critical factor.
After examining each category of work, it was mutually agreed that some
634 employees constitute a reasonably efficient but practical number of staff
-or the initial operation.  However, if this number were to increase by 30,
60 and 100%, the cost per passenger would increase from Cr$ 4.82 to Cr$ 5.50,
Cr$ 6.17 and Cr$ 7.07, respectively. A cost per passenger of Cr$ 7.07
could jeopardize the financial feasibility of the new enterprise (para 5.14).
For this reason, it is imperative that the operating plan for TRENSURB
(para 5.08) be carried out generally in accordance with what has been assumed.
F.   Tariffs
5.13      The question arises of whether TRENSURB would be able to charge a
competi-tive tariff and still cover its operating costs. Determining a compe-
titive tariff for the train service is somewhat problematic since TRENSURB,



- 33 -
with its higher speed and greater comfort during the peak periods, would be
offering a better quality of service than the bus companies and, therefore,
would be competing on more than price grounds alone. Furthermore, the train
would be competing with the private automobile as well, and, for these pas-
sengers, the demand for the train is fairly price inelastic; convenience in
terms of station connections (e.g., satellite station parking and feeder buses),
waiting time, service frequency and comfort tend to be more important. The
proposed project is designed to provide present automobile users with an
acceptable substitute. Nevertheless, if the train is to replace buses on
many routes on which the former provide a more economical solution, the train
tariff should be somewhere in line with the bus tariff even if the train
provides a higher quality of service, in order that the rail tariff does not
impose an additional financial burden on those who would otherwise be bus
users (i.e., the lower income part of the population), which would be poli-
tically unacceptable. The task of identifying and implementing a new system
of bus routes would be carried out by NMTU with technical assistance included
in the project (para 3.25).
5.14      An analysis of bus tariffs in the influence area of the train indi-
cates that, indeed, TRENSURB ought to be able to charge a tariff that covers
its total operating costs (estimated at Cr$ 4.82 per passenger in constant
mid-1979 prices, para 5.11) and yet is below the average bus tariff, which,
in mid-1979, in the area to be served by the train, was Cr$ 7.0 per passenger.
For the longest route (Porto Alegre-Esteio-Sapucaia), the fare was about Cr$ 9.0
per passenger.  The minimum fare for some of the shorter routes was Cr$ 5.0
per passenger.  Thus, not only could TRENSURB cover its operating costs, but
it seems likely that it could also earn a return on invested capital as well
and still not exceed the average bus tariff. This result can be expected to
be reinforced in the future as petroleum prices rise and, other things being
equal, bus costs increase more rapidly than rail costs, given the simple fact
that the electric (hydrogeneration) rail service does not use this input.
The question of the levels and structure of tariffs for all modes of transport
in MRPA would be studied by consultants under the technical assistance program
(para 3.26). Among other things, these consultants would examine the
practicability of introducing distance-related and peak/off-peak rail pricing.
5.15      The administration of tariff policy should be the responsibility of
TRENSURB's management. During negotiations, the Bank obtained agreement from
TRENSURB that it would promptly, as necessary, seek the authorization of CIP
to charge tariffs which shall provide it with revenues sufficient to cover at
least all operating expenses including overhead costs, adequate maintenance
expenses, taxes, depreciation and interest. During negotiations, agreement
was also reached that, on the basis of a review to be undertaken not less than
once every six months or whenever tariffs of passenger services competitive
with those of TRENSURB are adjusted, if adjusted more frequently, the Borrower
would authorize such adjustments in tariffs to permit TRENSURB to cover at
least all of the above operating expenses. If economic circumstances, in
the judgment of the Government, do not permit TRENSURB to charge tariffs
which would cover operating expenses, the Government and TRENSURB have agreed
to promptly inform the Bank of such circumstances and the tariff levels
proposed.



34 -
G.   iinancial Results
5.16      In the indicative analysis that has been carried out, the rail
tariff has been assumed to be Cr$ 6.0 per passenger, a level consistent with
TRENSURB's agreed tariff policy (para 5.15), and generally constrained by
average bus tariffs in the influence area. The forecasts of TRENSURB's income
accounts and balance sheets in constant mid-1979 prices for the period 1985-1990
are shown in Table 5.1. TRENSURB's net surplus in 1985 expressed in mid-1979
prices is estimated at Cr$ 99.0 million or US$3.8 million. This figure is
expected to increase gradually, reaching US$7.2 million in 1987. In 1988,
TRENSURB's net surplus is estimated to fall to US$0.3 million because of debt
service payments on the loan from EBTU (para '4.07). Thereafter, the net
surplus is forecast to increase in the succeeding years. Thus, based on a
tariff that is approximately equal to the average bus tariff, TRENSURB is
expected to have sufficient resources to cover its operating costs, repay its
debt and still have a small surplus during the period analyzed. The working
and operating ratios in 1985 are estimated to be 44 and 80 respectively,
improving further to 38 and 68 by 1990. TRENSURB's estimated operating profit
per passenger in mid-1979 prices is forecast to increase from Cr$ 1.18 in 1985
to Cr$ 1.94 in 1990. This profit corresponds to a return on revalued net
fixed assets of 1.5% and 4.3% in 1985 and 1990 respectively. By 1995, this
return is forecast to reach 8%.
5.17      Of course, if the costs of operation are higher, as indicated in the
sensitivity tests (para 5.11), the financial results deteriorate significantly.
With a cost per passenger of Cr$ 7.07 corresponding to a 100% increase in staff,
TRENSURB's working and operating ratios in 1985 increase from 44 and 80, respec-
tively, to 75 and 111. If, in addition, the tariff is set at Cr$ 3 instead
of Cr$ 6, the working and operating ratios increase further to 149 and 221.
(More details of this sensitivity analysis are presented in Table 5.2.) There
is no doubt that the attainment of the goals set forth in the operating plan
(para 5.08) and the adoption of an economic tariff policy are essential to the
financial success of the new company.
5.18      In addition, TRENSURB's estimated operating revenues refer only
to the proceeds of passenger fares. TRENSURB may also generate additional
revenues from other sources such as satellite car parking fees and from the
leasing of commercial space inside the stations. Projections of these
revenues have not been made. The matter of parking fees would be part of
the overall tariff study included in the technical assistance (para 3.26).
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Alternatives
6.01      For the economic analysis, five mutually exclusive project alterna-
tives were analyzed: six, if one considers the base case, i.e., without project
situation. The five project alternatives include: (i) the removal of the
existing tracks and the construction of an express busway in the present
railway right-of-way; (ii) the improvement of the existing antiquated diesel
railway service; (iii) a rail mass transit system (i.e., the proposed project);
(iv) a light rail system; and (v) a new road with a bus expressway.



- 35 -
6.02      For each of the five project alternatives, a net present value
(NPV) was calculated. 1/ The alternative with the highest NPV represents the
preferred solution. The rate of return for this solution was then calculated.
This analysis established the superiority of the proposed project or alter-
native (iii). A summary of the analysis follows.
6.03      All prices used in the analysis, both on the benefit and cost sides,
exclude taxes and are held constant at mid-1979 levels. The economic costs
for each proposed project alternative consist of the capital investment costs
plus the incremental road and/or rail maintenance costs. Physical contingen-
cies are included in the capital cost estimates. Summaries of the capital
investment costs distributed over the implementation period of each project
alternative and the right-of-way maintenance costs are presented in Tables 6.1
through 6.5.
6.04      The benefits associated with each project alternative were calcula-
ted as follows: first, each project alternative implies a different transport
system, the characteristics of which were specified (for all practical purposes,
the transport system in each case is limited to the north-south corridor, which
fairly well defines the total area of influence for all the alternatives);
second, the travel demand in the corridor associated with each project alter-
native was estimated (as explained in paragraph 2.30, one land use scenario
was adopted as the base to forecast trips for the without project situation
and project alternatives (i), (ii), and (v), and another land use scenario was
adopted as the base to forecast trips for alternatives (iii) and (iv)) 2/; third,
all the transport costs associated with meeting the forecast travel demand in
the corridor under each alternative transport system (i.e., project alternative)
were calculated; fourth, the transport costs associated with meeting the fore-
cast travel demand in the corridor without any of the project alternatives
(i.e., the base case transport system) were calculated; and last, for each
project alternative, the costs under step three were subtracted from the costs
under step four to obtain the cost savings or benefits associated with each
project alternative. The types of transport costs which were compared for
the benefit calculation include vehicle operating and passenger travel time
(including transfer or walk/wait time) costs. Summaries of these costs over the
life of each project alternative and in the base case are given in Tables 6.2
through 6.6. The unit cost basis for the road and rail operating cost calcula-
tions are derived and presented in Tables 6.7 and 6.8. The derivation of the
value of passenger travel time is given in Table 6.9. The highlights of the
base case, project alternatives, and results are presented below.
1/   When comparing mutually exclusive alternatives, the rate of return
criterion may give ambiguous results. Thus, net present value was used.
2/   Since the two alternative land use scenarios do not involve different
overall rates of economic growth for the region, and, thus, the total
number of trips is the same for both alternatives, it was not necessary
to deal with the question of generated traffic. The differences in the
distribution of trips, trip lengths and modal composition arising from
the different spatial distributions of growth under each land use alter-
native are accounted for in the calculation of transport costs.



- 36 -
6.05      The base case or without project situation, which is compared with
each alternative, essentially refers to the existing transport system with
committed operational and physical improvements. The most important committed
improvements for the north-south corridor include pavement repair, the instal-
lation of lights and signals and the erection of barriers for the creation of
an express bus lane on Avenida Farropas which connects BR-116 with downtown
Porto Alegre. These improvements are being made under the Bank's First Urban
Transport Project (Annex 1).
(i) Bus Expressway in the Railway Right-of-Way
6.06      This alternative involves the removal of the existing tracks and
the construction of an exclusive bus expressway (25 km) in the existing
railway right-of-way plus the relocation of the existing freight line to the
side of the new expressway. An elevated road access to the CBD of Porto
Alegre is also included. In considering the present solution, two alternative
designs were examined: three and four lanes. Since some sections of the rail-
way right-of-way are quite narrow, some expropriation of land and demolition
of buildings would be required for both designs but more for the four-lane
solution. These costs have been taken into account. The three-lane alter-
native was found to have a higher NPV than the four-lane alternative. Thus,
the three-lane design was adopted for comparison with the other alternatives.
For this alternative, one can begin to see an appreciable reduction in the
level of operating and passenger travel time costs when compared with the
base case. However, because of the large number of buses circulating in the
densely developed CBD of Porto Alegre during the peak periods, congestion
costs, as reflected in vehicle operation (as well as environmental costs, such
as air and noise pollution, which have not been quantified), in this central
area begin to rise quite steeply.
(ii) An Improved Diesel Train Service
6.07      Under this alternative, the existing track system, which is over
100 years old, would have to be totally replaced and all new installations
provided. Because of the existing state of the railway, this alternative
is almost equivalent to starting from nothing. The present alternative also
includes an urban access line to Mercado Station on Avenida Maua as in
alternative (iii) following. The use of diesel locomotives in a densely
developed urban area would involve some additional environmental costs in
terms of noise pollution that should be kept in mind but which have not been
formally taken into account in this analysis. From the outset, under this
alternative, the diesel rail system would have to operate at full capacity
during the peak hours (estimated at 12 trains per hour in one direction).
Despite this consideration, the road system in the corridor (basically BR-116)
would still have to absorb the major share of passenger trips because of the
large total demand. Furthermore, the diesel system is not expected to be
competitive with the private automobile. Its ridership would be drawn essen-
tially from bus users. Under these conditions, road transport costs in the
corridor are expected to increase quite rapidly, especially after 1990.
(iii) Rail Mass Transit System (Proposed Project)
6.08      The proposed project is described in detail in Chapter IV.  The
economic capital investment costs are shown in Table 6.3. Rail passenger-
km costs under the present alternative are estimated to be about 25% higher



- 37 -
than under the diesel alternative. However, road transport costs in the
corridor under this alternative are substantially lower than under the diesel
rail alternative because of the rail mass transit system's higher capacity
and ability to divert car passengers from the road system. This alternative
also has considerably less congestion cost in the CBD than any of the other
alternatives, essentially because of the high capacity, non-stop, and fixed
right-of-way characteristics of the urban rail connection.
(iv)   Light Rail
6.09      Light rail systems are sometimes considered prior to introducing a
full rapid rail mass transit system. They sometimes involve a fixed right-
of-way, but not always. Monorails, most often seen in airports, are illustra-
tive of the former type, whereas the trolley-bus controlled by overhead cables
is an example of the latter. In the Porto Alegre Metropolitan Region, it is
quite clear that the long distances involved and the large population to be
served make the monorail solution, with its very limited capacity, impractical.
Also, the population density in a fairly narrow band along the existing
railway right-of-way is quite high, suggesting that there is probably no
advantage to deviating from this route.  Thus, the system chosen to be tested
has essentially the same overall design as alternative (iii) but a lower
capacity (approximately one-third, or 17,000 passengers per hour in one
direction), resulting mostly from the use of smaller and lighter unit trains
and from the substitution of automatic level crossing guards for many of the
vehicle under/over passes.  The type of unit train considered is the one now
in use on a branch line in the Rio de Janeiro suburbs. Under the present
alternative, car passengers are expected to divert to the train in approxi-
mately the same proportion to the total train passengers as in alternative (iii).
Rail passenger-km costs are only slightly higher than for the full rail mass
transit system, alternative (iii). However, given the limited capacity of
the light rail system, road vehicle operating costs are forecast to rise quite
substantially.
(v) lNew Road with Exclusive Bus Expressway
6.10      Because of soil, flood and present land use conditions, it is
impossible to construct a new road close to the centers which would be served
by all the other project alternatives without considering a totally elevated
highway, which would be prohibitively expensive, esthetically unattractive and
generally unacceptable to local authorities. The alignment chosen, therefore,
was the one once proposed for a new road in this corridor, i.e., the Porto
Alegre-Scharlau highway (para 2.21). This highway would run from Porto Alegre
(starting on Avenida Assis Brasil at the intersection with BR-290) to Scharlau
following a route, which, on average, is about 6 km to the east of BR-116 and
which crosses BR-116 just north of Sapacaia. To compensate for the lack of
access to the same urban centers served by the other alternatives, four lateral
road connections with lengths of 5, 4, 3 and 2 km each were included in this
alternative. The road would have six lanes and be 24 km long. Under this
alternative, road transport costs in the north-south corridor (excluding
intramunicipal trips) are forecast to rise from Cr$ 2,410 million in 1985
to Cr$ 5,645 million in 2000. These relatively large numbers reflect the
large growth in private automobile traffic on the road system and in the
central area of Porto Alegre that is expected to occur with the provision
of more road capacity, a phenomenon that is experienced worldwide.



- 38 -
(vi) Results
6.11      The NPV associated with each of the five project alternatives is
presented below:
Project Alternative       (i)       (ii)      (iii)       (iv)       (v)
NPV                     5,269      4,409      7,070      2,362      3,388
(Cr$ million) at 11%
It is interesting to note that all of the mutually exclusive project alter-
natives have a positive NPV. This result is' not surprising in view of
the fact that, without any of the project alternatives (para 6.05), the
Region's only north-south trunk road, BR-116, an already congested arterial
(para 2.26), would become completely saturated, and, as speeds diminished
further, road transport costs would rise very steeply. A major increase in
transport capacity in the corridor is clearly justified. The analysis shows
that, among the five alternatives, the full rail mass transit system, alter-
native (iii), is the preferred solution with an NPV of Cr$ 7,070 million,
which is about 34% higher than the second best solution, alternative (i), the
construction of a new bus expressway in the present railway right-of-way.
6.12      The rate of return for alternative (iii) is 24%, and the first year
rate of return is 11%, indicating that the proposed project is well justified
and that the starting date is optimal. The considerable spread between the
first year rate of return and the rate of return over the project's economic
life is basically explained by the fact that the benefits are quite substantial
in the later years as road transport costs in the base case relative to the
project situation build up quite rapidly.
6.13      Petroleum savings, which are accounted for in the benefits as part
of the road vehicle operating cost savings, are worth mentioning separately.
In 1985 (the first full year of train operations), the proposed project, when
compared with the base case, would result in petroleum (diesel fuel and
gasoline) savings of some 20.7 million liters, increasing to about 47.8
million liters in 1990 and to about 63.4 million liters by the year 2000.
In terms of constant mid-1979 prices, these savings amount to US$5.5 million
for 1985, US$13.8 million in 1990 and US$20.5 million in 2000. Such savings
arise from the substitution of passenger trips made in electric powered
(hydrogeneration) unit trains for trips which would otherwise be made in cars
and buses and from less congested (more fuel-efficient) traffic conditions for
the vehicle fleet on the existing road system. The above savings in 1985, 1990
and 2000 represent about 2.5, 6.0 and 7.7%, respectively, of the total annual
gasoline and diesel oil consumption in MRPA at'the present time. These percen-
tages would be even smaller if the savings were compared with estimates of
total consumption in MRPA in the same future years. Thus, while these savings
are substantial and are a part of the justification for the proposed project,
when compared with total gasoline and diesel oil consumption in MRPA, let
alone in the State and entire country, the impact is relatively small. The
facts simply do not permit one to argue that the proposed project makes a
significant contribution to reducing the country's dependence on imported
oil--a claim often made to justify projects like the one proposed. The
proposed project should be, and has been, justified on the basis of a total
benefit-cost analysis.



- 39 -
B.   Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
6.14       The following sensitivity tests were performed:
(a)  a 15% increase in the capital investment costs of each project
alternative;
(b)  the elimination of all passenger travel time benefits from all
the alternatives;
(c)  a shortfall in the forecast of car passenger diversion to the
suburban railway in alternatives (iii) and (iv); specifically,
in alternative (iii), 10% of total intermunicipal corridor car
passengers are assumed to divert to the railway over the entire
life of the project instead of, as originally forecast, 10% in
1985, increasing to 25% in 1990 and remaining at that rate until
2000 (the same relative decrease for alternative (iv)); and
(d)  a 15% decrease in the total benefits associated with each project
alternative.
6.15       These changes tend to cover the most likely types and magnitudes
of risk associated with the various project alternatives as well as the
concern sometimes expressed that transport projects in developing countries
should be justified on resource grounds without consideration of time savings
(sensitivity test (b)). The results are summarized below:
Net Present Value
(Cr$ million, mid-1979)
Project Alternative   (i)           (ii)      (iii)       (iv)       (v)
Sensitivity Test
(a)           5,000      4,135       6,641      1,960      2,975
(b)             855         778      2,681       -649       -419
(c)           5,269      4,409       5,903      2,175      3,388
(d)           4,214      3,458       5,564      1,597      2,469
Note: at 11% rate of discount
6.16       Under all the sensitivity tests, the ranking of project alternatives
remains the same as in the base case with the proposed project, alternative
(iii), clearly emerging as the most economical solution. It is interesting
to note that, under sensitivity test (b) (without passenger travel time savings),
project alternatives (iv) and (v) (the light rail and new road solutions)
become uneconomical. Also, with a shortfall in the diversion of automobile users
to the suburban railway (sensitivity test (c)), the rail mass transit alter-
native maintains its superiority but is only marginally better (12% higher NPV)
than alternative (i). Clearly, automobile diversion is an essential component
of the proposed project. The rates of return for alternative (iii) under
sensitivity tests (a),(b),(c) and (d).are 22%, 17%, 19% and 22%, respectively.
C.   Distributional Impact
6.17       In order to assess the equity or distributional impact of the project,
it is necessary to identify how the benefits are distributed among the dif-
ferent income groups that are affected by the project. First, it should be



- 40 -
noted that passenger travel time savings for all modes and automobile vehicle
operating cost savings accrue directly to the users, whereas public vehicle
operating cost savings accrue directly to the bus companies. However, to the
extent that there is effective competition among the bus companies in MRPA
(and evidence suggests that there is), one can reasonably assume that bus
tariffs would be lower under a regime of lower operating costs than what
they would otherwise be without the project. Further, fare regulation relates
tariff increases to operating costs. Thus, users of buses also benefit from
reductions in bus vehicle operating costs, although somewhat indirectly.
6.18      While it was not possible to obtain a detailed income profile of the
entire beneficiary population, average income by general user group has been
estimated and is considered indicative. It is estimated that the average
bus passenger has an average monthly income which is approximately two times
the minimum wage, or Cr$ 4,200 and that the average car user has a monthly
income which is about seven times the minimum wage, or Cr$ 14,700. Train
passengers consist of persons who would otherwise travel by car or bus. (Over
the life of the project, potential car and bus users are, on average, expected
to comprise 19% and 81% of the total train ridership.) Therefore, the benefits
that have been measured (passenger travel time savings, car operating cost
savings and bus operating cost savings), can be related to two beneficiary
groups with incomes corresponding to the average automobile and bus user. The
distribution of benefits among these two income groups is as follows:
% of Total Project Benefits
Average       Time        Car Operating       Bus Operating
Income      Savings      Cost Savings         Cost Savings        Total
Cr$
4,200         34              0                  39.5              73.5
14,700          8            18.5                   0               26.5
42            18.5                 39.5             100.0
6.19      As can be seen from this analysis, almost three-fourths of the
total project benefits are expected to accrue directly or indirectly to the
lowest income group. At least 34% is expected to accrue directly to this
group in the form of less travel time. Thus, the project may be said to
have quite desirable distributional effects.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the concerned parties
on the following:
I.   With the Federative Republic of Brazil (Loan Agreement)
(a) to, not less than once per year, through EBTU, inform the Bank
of its National Urban Transport Investment Plan (para 1.19);



- 41 -
(b) to not implement the Porto Alegre-Scharlau Highway Project until
a proper feasibility study, satisfactory to the Bank, is completed
and shows that this project is economically justified (para 2.21);
(c) to, on the basis of an existing agreement with the Municipality
of Porto Alegre, cause the latter to implement the agreed park-
ing restrictions program for the CBD of Porto Alegre (para 3.19);
(d) to onlend the Bank loan to TRENSURB/P.A. on the agreed terms
(para 7.02(b) following) (para 4.07);
(e) to, on the basis of a review to be undertaken not less than once
every six months or whenever tariffs of passenger services compet-
itive with those of TRENSURB are adjusted, if adjusted more
frequently, authorize such adjustments in tariffs that would
permit TRENSURB to cover at least all of its operating expenses as
set out in the agreement under V(e) following (para 5.15); and
(f) to take all action as necessary to assist in ensuring that all
other agreements under V following are fully complied with.
II.  With EBTU (Joint Project Agreement)
(a) to employ consultants, by December 31, 1980, to improve its
internal accounting, budgeting and control procedures and to
discuss with the Bank the consultants' recommendations (para 1.15);
(b) to review and discuss with the Bank any proposals to substantially
change its investment policy statement which was discussed
during negotiations and recently approved by EBTU's Administrative
Council (para 1.19); and
(c) to inform the Bank through 1988 of any proposed passenger trans-
port-related investments exceeding US$10 million to be undertaken
in the influence area of the Bank project, provide the Bank with
information regarding the expected impact on the Bank project and
consult with the Bank prior to making a commitment (para 2.21).
III. With the State of Rio Grande do Sul (Joint Project Agreement)
(a) to cause the newly created NMTU to carry out its agreed
functions (para 2.28);
(b) to provide the necessary personnel to enforce the parking
restrictions program for the CBD of Port Alegre, set out in
the agreement under I(c) above (para 3.19); and
(c) to discuss with the Bank the recommendations of the consultants
on auto restraint measures for MRPA when they become available and,
through NMTU, proceed to implement an appropriate plan of action as
a result (para 3.24).



- 42 -
IV. With EBTU, RFFSA, GEIPOT and METROPLAN (Joint Project Agreement)
(a) to provide the necessary technical services to NEP within
TRENSURB/P.A. (para. 4.02).
V. With TRENSURB/P.A. (Joint Project Agreement)
(a) to accomplish the shift in TRENSURB's status from a subsidiary
of RFFSA to a more diversified share structure according to
the agreed schedule (para 5.03);
(b) to carry out the agreed operating and staffing plans (para 5.08);
(c) to have its accounts, including those with respect to the
proposed project, audited annually by independent external
auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and to have these accounts
produced annually, and furnished to the Bank within four months
of the end of TRENSURB's fiscal year (para 5.09);
(d) to not enter into borrowings, other than the loan with EBTU,
before the fourth year of full operations, and then only if
such borrowings would not result in a debt service which is
greater than the average annual net operating income
plus depreciation for either the immediately preceding two years
of operation or for a later 24-month period ended prior to the
incurrence of such debt service, whichever is greater (para 5.10);
and
(e) to promptly, as necessary, seek the authorization of CIP
to charge tariffs which shall provide it with revenues
sufficient to cover at least all operating expenses,
including overhead costs, adequate maintenance expenses,
taxes, depreciation and interest (para 5.15).
7.02      As conditions for loan effectiveness of the proposed loan agreement,
the following should be accomplished:
(a) the establishment of NEP within TRENSURB with staff satisfactory
to the Bank (para 4.01); and
(b) the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, on the agreed terms,
between EBTU and TRENSURB/P.A. (para 4.07).
7.03      With the agreements and understandings obtained, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$159.0 million. The loan would be
amortized in 15 years, including a three-year grace period.
April 17, 1980



BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Urban and Regional Population Size :in Brazil
(1872-1970)
Urban Population
(Percent of Total)
Municipa-
Total                    lities of           Regional Population              Regional Urban Population b/
Population   Official a/  20,000 or             (Percent of Total)                 (Percent of Region)
Year     (000)      Definition        more     Northeast   Southeast   Frontier   Northeast   Southeast   Frontier
1872      9,931        N.A.-          7.9          46.7        47.7        5.6         N.A.          N.A.        N.A.
1900     17,434        N.A.          10.0          38.7        55.2        6.1         N.A.          N.A.        N.A.
.1940     41,236        31.2          16.0         35.0         58.4        6.6        N.A.           N.A.       N.A.
1950     51,944        36.2          21.1          34.6        58.5        6.9         26.4          42.9        28.0
1960     70,119        45.6          28.1          31.6        60.5        7.9         34.0          52.9        37.1
1970     93,140        55.9          38.8          30.2        60.5        9.3         41.8          64.4        46.8
a/  Officially, urban places are defined according to political administrative criteria.  This administrative
definition leads to a larger urban share than would be the case with a specific size limit, as the data in
the third column, based on 20,000 or more inhabitants, indicates.
b/  Official definition.
Source:  Bank Report, Brazil Division, Human Resources Special Report
January 1980



- 44 -                              TABLE 1.2
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Motorization Rates in Selected Urban Areas
(Automobiles/i,OOO inhabitants)
Urban Areas                                            1970       1975          1977
Metropolitan Areas of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo  61.4         103.1         111.1
Metropolitan Areas of Recife, Porto Alegre, Belo
Horizonte and Salvador                              43.9        68.5          75.8
Metropolitan Areas of Curitiba, Fortaleza and
Belem                                               39.5        69.4          N.A.
Capital Cities outside the Metropolitan Areas          33.6       74.1          85.5
Medium Sized Cities                                    45.3       90.1         102.0
Brazil                                                 25.0       52.1          59.9
Source: Ministerio Dos Transportes, GEIPOT, Plano Nacional de Tranportes,
Diagnostico, VIII.
Januarv 1980



- 45 _                 TABLE 2.1
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Population by Municipality in the MRPA (1970, 1974, 1979)
1970                 1974                 1979
Municipalities      Number      %        Number      %        Number
Alvorada            40,376     2.64       66,340    3.56     101,000    4.24
Cachoeirinha        31,020     2.03       46,370    2.49      78,000    3.28
Campo Bom           16,621     1.09       23,320    1.25      34,ooo    1.43
Canoas             153,823    10.04      188,o80   10.09     241,ooo   10.13
Estancia Velha       8,896     0.58       11,890    o.64      15,000    0.63
Esteio              34,587     2.26       40,390    2.17      53,000    2.23
Gravatai            52,454     3.42       71,570    3.84     118,000    4.96
Guaiba              33,692     2.20       43,740    2.35      69,ooo    2.90
Novo Hamburgo       85,353     5.57      104,960    5.63     139,000    5.84
Porto Alegre       885,944    57.84    1,015,710   54.51   1,217,000   51.12
Sao Leopoldo        64,309     4.20       72,910    3.91      94,0oo    3.95
Sapiranga           16,403     1.07       23,380    1.25      30,000    1.26
Sapucaia do Sul     41,750     2.73       58,690    3.15      89,ooo    3.74
Viamao              66,375     4.33       96,150    5.16     102.ooo    4.29
MRPA TOTAL       1,531,603   100.00 .  1,863,-500- 100.00   2,380,000  100.00
Source, METROPLAN 1979
Janrary 1980



- 46 -                         TABLE 2.2
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
The Location of Population Within the MRPA
(1970, 1974, 1979)
1970              1974                 1979
Location                 Number      %       Number   _ _%        Number      %
North-South Corridor     421,742  27.54      523,620   28.10      695,000   29.2
East-West Corridor       157,542  10.29      228,020   12.24      366,ooo   15.4
Porto Alegre             885,944  57.84   1,015,710   54.51   1,217,000   51.1
Viamao                    66,375   4.33       96,150    5.16      102,000    4.3
MRPA                   1,531,603    100   1,863,500      100   2,380,000    100
Source: METROPLAN, 1979
November 1979



- 47 -
TABLE 2.3
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Sectoral Distribution of Employment in the MRPA
(1971-1976)
1971                 1973                  1976  -
Sector              % of total            % of total      I      of total
Primary                  7                     5                    4.5
Secondary              39.3                  34.5                  33.5
1Tertiary               53.7                 60.5                  62
| Total       ~439,262                      503,851               608,764
Source: METROPLAN
November 1979



- 48 -                       TABLE 2.4
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Spatial and Sectoral Distribution of Employment in the MRPA
(1973)
Secondary Sector  Tertiary Sector            Total
Location                  Number             Number     %        Number      %
North-South Corridor       73,113  43.17      35,591  11.68      108,704   22.93
East-West Corridor         10,266   6.o6       8,180   2.69       18,446    3.89
Porto Alegre               85,813  50.66    258,193  84.75       344,oo6   72.57
Viamao                        185   0.11       2,687   0.88        2,872    o.61
Total MRPA                169,377 100.00    304,651 100.00       474,028  100.00
Source: METROPLAN, 1979
November 1979



- 49 -                      TABLE 2.5
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Distribution of Household Income By Municipality in the MRPA
(In Percent)
Income Classes                            .-
Municipalities  Cr$ 0-1;810  Cr$ 1.811-5,410 lCr$ 5,411-21,050  Above Cr$ 21,050
Alvorda               8                63                28                  1
Cachoeirinha          3                50                43                  4
Campo Bom             3                47                43                  7
Canoas                4                46       1        42                  8
Estancia Velha        6                50                37                  7
Esteio                6                43                43                  8
Gravatai              7                55                34                  4
Guaiba                7                53                33                  7
Novo Hamburgo         4                41                43                 12
Porto Alegre          3                30                43                 24
Sao Leopoldo          5                42                38                 15
Sapiranga             3                38                51                  8
Sapucaia do Sul       8                57                32                  3
Viamao               10                60                28                  2
Total MRPA            4                38                41                 17
Note: 1974 distribution in terms of 1979 prices
Source: METROPLAfl, 1979
November 1979



- 50 -
BRAZIL
SZCOND L'BAN T?P.AISFORT PROJECT
Road Transnort Infrastructure in the MRRA
BR-290                                          Km                 Number of L&res
S.Antonio da Patrulka/Gravatai
-Intersecao RS-118(Gravatai)                    32                     4
Intersegao 118-Porta Alegre                     21                     4
Co=omr section with BR-116                      '16                    2
BR-116 - Guaiba/Arroio dos Ratos                36                     2
BR-116
Intersegao BR-290 - Guaiba/Bar-
re. do Ribeiro                                  22                     2
Porto Alegre - Canoas                           14                     4 + 2 service lanes
Canoas - Esteic                                  7                     4 + 2 service lanes
Esteio - Sao Leopoldo                            9                     4 + 2 service lanes
Sao Leopoldo - Acesso Novo Ham-
burgo                                            8                     4
Novo Famburgo - Estancia Velha/
Ivoti                                            4                     2
BR-386
Canoas/Montenegro - BR-116(Canoas)              19                     2
BR-122
Intersegao BR-li6(Scharlau)-Sao Leo-
poldo/Portao                                     6                     2
RS-239
BR-116(Novo Hamburgo) - Sapi-
ranga/Taquara                                   31                     2
RS-llc^
BR-116(Esteio/Sarucaia do Sul)
-BR-290(Gravatai)                               22                     2
BR-290(Gravataf) - ES-040                       17                     2
!w,-/'rn _    '**o) _-_.,.<_          
RS-020
RS-030(Cachoeirinha) - Gravatal'!
/Taquara                                        ?.
PS-C
Av. Antonio de Carvalho(P.A.)
-Rs-118 (viamao,                                17f
RS-l18(Vianao) - Viarao/Osorio                                         2
Source: DNER, Porto Alegre
January 1icU



BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Number, Type and Fleet Size of Municipal and Intermunicipal Bus Companies in the MRPA
(1979)
___.                   Type of Company   =                    _ _ ______
LOCAL              jtmber of    Private         Public/                   I              Fleet      Average
_________ __  ___   "on,nies _Ccrporation  Private Corp.  Partnership  Individual   Size  Fleet/Company
Inter-municipal - total        10           3                               7           _         1,168       117
Municipal
Portc Alegrc                   22           _              1              21            _         1,500        68
Alvorada                        1                                          1           _            11        11
Campo Bomn                      1                                          1           _             7         7
Canoas                          1           _                               1           -            68        68
Gravatai                        1           -                               1           _             8      8
Novo llamburgo                  2           -                               2           _            85        42
Sao Leopoldo                   _4 __                       _               4                         37         9
Total                   I                   3              1              38 .                   2,90o4        69
Source: Cadastro das Empresas de Transporte Coletivo.
January 1980



BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Vehicle Occupancy, Trip Distance, Speeds and Fares by Mode in the MRPA
(1979)
Passenger Vehicle Occupancy
(pass/veh)                Average Pass
Principal      Other        Daily    Trip Distance    Average Speed           Fares
VEHIlCLE            Direction    Direction    Average         (km)             (km/hr)        (Cr$/pass-km)
Automobiles                                     1.33           9
Peak                  1.66         1.27                                          30
Off-peak              1.27         1.27                                          45
Urban bus                                        45           13                                 0.2048
I'eak                  85           30                                           15
Off'-peak              40           40                                           20
Interurbarn bus                                  42           21                                 0.3058
Peak                   81           15                                           20
Off-peak               40           I40                                          50
Taxi                                                                                           Cr$ 10 + Cr$ 4.0/km
Peak                  2.32 (includes driver)                   9                 30
Off-peak                                                                         50
Train                178/train                               12                 29              o.1666
(at present)
Soltrep!  (WTPOT, Pnrto Al.egre
January 1.980



45*1      *lS'%# 411M(   S*i *5445        s.       5 --              m u      S                                                                        IN           |               |*a
L         in'   "Is'  gm                  O'        K W     K            '1                      I"W ,T    1 U  T                            37        1    1 s                              wr           t |- SW
a5        54       9*s       nU                    c i         s      s         "I                                                                                                            OS £,  U  n  |  se    S' I *5  -    g  s s 4  4  me. .me
We         W,¢eisss  400   uslt    n      v*e.8 ssit  *    s       s                                          &.I $2                                            oil                                    1"    s     W  _,_
'mS 'S et S<S-S  I'S""    I  *'s  '@    K%t's   &@s'l   '414_'              1 St'I     a's *'              -           5.5       44       £    S      I |     ss        4545     55        s
SI        4~      44       45             u         u      'IS      1.9      SW         US'*  I  U           45 Ago46 Alt                   *6        '"'u   *I,"                                                                I II IlE
:*        :W:  n:                   It   i         *              "                                 "         :1: "       ' v  4  m  M                          61      * *4*      9                                . I5
ut't           e' u              v                   s  gm  it  9                            s _ ss .4  I  nS '  1          W I                                             a",* 
95        U5       UerS ^  v@ss *(w  69   64       SW    '3         49        5*         *U      .      l      nI4 | 1 l S *'8   ('5  5"1,  
5945  644  us                                                                            I                                                                         .41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s,    e.
44  *SI  5198    U                                               *44        555   s5             9*5       56   n* s5 e @ z st t          .s       St      SI                    to4 USI            MS'  
''L*                    mu       I,                                                                        I s                                                                               I at't    S
:,43      fi'"    on .     as .1                   0",      "",I   to@l   s    l         on      ga I_                  - t     it          S'         gi g    .11      ML                     g       ss         s      I      __
.S       "W         ms   so       *      9'9i     do   |            m         9 A    s s   |                     tt                         w e ,      la                                              . s*n@|@s ntswsu* " 0 xs| 
r-a - z 2 | E s _ t * f - I stst   t   n-Bl   Etl  '  US4  |  T _ |_ w w *_ttr -nr | St w | _~~~~~~~I                         oi                  9111VWI                       O
U-N  am                                                              U.                  it"~  S    U                               *4T       I9         ml5    Wal        *5         SV        V                         .9
- Z1 5 . . I              _           "           '1T  t      'R-"""X....l| .                                                                                              I          _                     I  
' *JUSUS    -     --   _-
M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ w   s}^t _*  g   X!  



54                                 TABLE 2.10
BRAZIL
SECOID URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
The Availability and Cost of Parking in the Porto Alegre Central Business District (CBD)S'
(1979)
Type of Parking           Street           Parking Lot           Gar e
Number of Spaces          3,240              1,587               10,000
Tariff                                       Cr$ 10/4 hrs.       Cr$ 25/4 hrs.
Includes first ring road circling the CBD
Source: GEIPOT, Porto Alegre
January 19An



- 55 -
TABLE 2.11
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Private Automobile Owner/User Charges in the MRPA
1979
Sales Tax
State of Rio Grande do Sul ..........................  14%
(Consumer's Tax)
Federal .......................... 27%
(Manufacture's Tax)
Property Tax
50-60 horsepower . ................................ Cr$ 3,450
69-100 horsepower ................................. Cr$ 5,000
User Tax (Gasoline) .      ................................ 22%
Compulsory Insurance . ................................ Cr$ 435.10
(Average Vehicle)
Source: GEIPOT, Porto Alegre
Januarv 1980



- 56 -                                          TABLE 2..2
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Modal PurMose and Time Distribution of Passenger Trips in the MRPA
(1979)
a/            / | Number of                      S s C  of Tocal Dailv Trips)
Mode of Transaort       Purpose_ _ L Daily Trips       6-7       7-8      12-13    13-14  | 17-18    18-19    0-24
Total         1,951,600       13.59    11.43    18.03        6.47    11.75    11.22    100
b/   Residence  1   950,039    0.47      0.35      9.62      0.70    10.12      8.14    48.68
rotal-                 Work             662,763       10.7       7.36      5.61     4.10      0.54      0.41    33.96
Study           267,955        2.19      3.28      2.40      1.09     0.83      2.52    13.73
Others           70.843        0.21      0.45      0.40      0.58      0.26     0.16      3.63
Total         1,338,798       10.67      6.96    11.48       3.89      8.64      7.92    68.60
Residence       656,713        0.40      0.20      5.97      0.51      7.51     5.82    33.65
Public                 Work             446,331        8.33      4.43      3.43      2.19     0.39      0.26    22.87
(Bus and Taxi)         Study            192,818        1.80      2.08      1.87     0.75      0.63      1.77      9.88
I Others          43.130         0.14     0.2.5     0.20      0.45      0.11      0.07      2.21
Total           586,456        2.86      4.40      6.29      2.53      2.83     3.05    30.05
Residence       280,445        0.07      0.15      3.49      0.18     2.43      2.26    14.37
Private-               Work             211,358        2.35      2.89      2.12      1.89     0.13      0.13    10.83
(Cars and others)      Study             67,915        0.38      1.17     0.50      0.33      0.13   i 0.56       3.48
Others           26.737        0.07      0.20      0.18      0.13     0.14      0.09      1.37
a/  Train trips at present, under the practically non-existent service of two,trains daily in each
direction, are negligible; approximately 700 passengers daily.
b/  Includes trips on foot which account for about 1.47. of total daily trips.
c/  Of which about 1.6% of total daily trips'or about 2.4% of total trips in public vehicles are made in
taxis.
d/  Of which 27.57. of total daily trips or 92% of all trips in private vehicles are made in cars.
e/ Defined with respect to destination.
Source: Based on unpublished computer printout from the Plano Diretor de Transportes Urbanos de Regiao
Metropolitana de Porto Alegre-1976, and adjusted for a larger estimated absolute number of
trips in 1979.
Januarv 1980



BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Municipal Shares in Trip Generation in the MRPA
(1979)
Population 1979                       Daily Trips by Origin                           Trips/inhabitants/day
MUNICIPALITIES          __    ___       _      _
Nunmber      2        Intra       7.      Inter        X        Total      _ %        Intra    Inter    Total
Porto Alegre - CBD           62,692    2.63      15,046     0.77    251,395    12.88        266,441    13.65      0.24     4.01      4.25
Rest of Porto Alegre      1,154,308   48.49    727,214    37.26    323,206    16.56    1,050,420    53.82         0.63      0.28     0.91
Alvorada                    101,000    4.24       7,070     0.36      29,290     1.50        36,360      1.86     0.07     0.29      0.36
Cachoeirinha                 78,000    3.28      11,700     0.60      21,840     1.12        33,540      1.72     0.15     0.28      0.43
Campo Bom                    34,000    1.43      12,580     0.64       3,740     0.19        16,320     0.84      0.37     0.11      0.48
Canoas                      241,000   10.13      79,530     4.08  i 62,660       3.21       142,190      7.29     0.33     0.26      0.59
Estancia Velba               15,000    0.63       3,750     0.19       2,400     0.12         6,150     0.32      0.25      0.16     0.41
E4teto                       53,000    2.23      11,660     0.60      15,900     0.81        27,560      1.41     0.22      0.30     0.52
Cravatal                    118,000    4.96      27,140     1.39      17,700     0.91        44,840     2.30      0.23     0.15      0.38
Gualba                       69,000 i 2.90       20,700     1.06       5,520     0.28        26,220      1.34     0.30     0.08  1 0.38
Novo Ilamburgo               39,000    5.84      77,840     3.99      13,900     0.71        91,740     4.70      0.56      0.10     0.66
Sao Leopoldo                 94,000    3.95      47,000     2.41      23,500     1.20        70,500     3.61      0.50     0.25      0.75
Sapiranga                    30,000 ! 1.26        9,300     0.48   i  9,000      0.46        18,300     0.94      0.31      0.03     0.34
Sapucaia do Sul              89,000    3.74      12,460     0.64      22,250     1.14        34,710     1.78      0.14     0.25      0.39
Viamao                      102,000    4.29      11,220     0.57      20.400     1.05        31,620      1.62     0.11      0.20     0.31
TOTAI.                    2,380,000  100.00  1,118,600    55.04    833,000    42.14    1,951,600    97.20         0.47      0.35     0.82
Source:  CEIPtO'c, Porto Alegre
.Jaiuarv 1980



BRAZI1L
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Daily and Peak-llour Vebicle Traffic Levels and Growth Rates on BR-116 in the MRPA
(1975 and 1979)
Daily Vehicle Traffic(both directions)       Peak-Hour (6:00-7:00) Vehicle Traffic(One direction/
I                                           Offroute direction)
YEAR             SECTIONS                                                   Total                                                         Total 
Car    Bus     Truck    Vehicles   Pcu'             Car         Bus         Truck    Vehicles       Pcu_s
Porto Alegre-Canoea            42041   4214    9789       56044      74261       1919/1387    145/152    230/269    229/1808    2814/2381
Canoas-EsLtao                  23999   2569    7691       34259   i 47088        1080/1008    109/106    182/253   1371/1367    1771/1832
1975       Esteio-Sao Leopoldo             18181   1028    5084       24293   1 31433         706/696      36/35      103/205    845/936       1020/1211
Sao l.eopoldo-Novo ilainburgo  _ 14067    907    2372     17346     21532         691/475       99/35      57/122    847/632       1102/824
Porto Alegre-Canoas            50201   4898   12716       67815     90327        2291/1656    168/177    299/349   2758/2188    3393/2885
Canoas-Esteio                  26964   3745   11305       42014     60812        1213/1133    159/154    267/372   1639/1676    2224/2339        @
1979                                                                                                                                                          0
Esteio-Sao Leopoldo            20427 _1498    7473        29398     39867         793/782       52/51     151/301    996/1134    1251/1537
Sao Leopoldo-Novo lantburgo    15805   1322    3486       20613     26743         776/534      144/51      84/179 _1004/764        1376/1045
Compound    Porto Alegre-Canoas              4.5     3.8  i  7.0        4.9       5.0          4.5/4.5     3.7/3.9    6.8/6.8    14.7/h4.9         8/49
Annual
Growth      Canoas-Esteio                    3.0     9.9    10.1        5.2       6.6          3.0/3.0     9.9/9.8   10.1/10.1  h4.6/5.2        5.9/5.6
Rates
1975-1979  ESteio-Sao Leopoldo               3.0     9.9    10.1        4.9       6.1          3.0/3.0     9.6/9.9   10.1/10.1  14.2/4.9        5 3/6.1
____   Sao Leopoldo-Novo lHamburgo  3.Q  9.9   10.1        4.4                    3.0/3.0     9.8/9.9   jo.g/jo.j  14.4/4.9         5.7/6.1
a/
Passenger Car Equivalent (pCU); I bus - 3 cars and 1 truck - 2 cars
Source:  1975 data are from the Plano Diretor de Transportes Urbanos da Regiao Hetropolitana de Porto Alegre - 1976; 1979 daily figures are based
on a one day su-vey by local DNER personnel.  Peak-hour figures are derived on the asaumption of a constant peak to daily ratio.
January 1980           -



BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Station-to-Station Daily Passenger Traffic
Year: 1985
Destination                     /                                         /
Origin          \                 o             o/  
-~~~~~~ /                                     -&                                              -(rz</..s.f
Mercado Central    0               - -io    92    _ In Q912 2         6421  £sn   .5301  2380   1475  a1u. 1 257546447
Rodoviaria             51            30  6_17    617  204    r)5  ihA'5   1217   1099    513   320    67   1464E 1463]
Farrapos               30.   206    0      411  102C  5969  io4  inOil 3000   2266  1039   817   1116 11676 325911
Aeroporto             102    617 _412    0         10    411 1 °7   14n   147        42     2              5
Ceasa                  201    61' _ 1029J~         0 en    o  _1!Ef   28 3    31414   107    '    103       90    596  4903
Niteroi              1060   2409f  6!l69   1193 ]~Q3       0      0    2ph    0        0      0 O          266  1764 23630
--      1---'.__------   -'"-                                           -.  __                        -   _
Fatima                348(   7891 1887   162 _  14q    O          0    vv       0     0             14    116 _ 1 3
Canoas         *   .1       2323i  4361   215    58_     333            0  jK       1485    149   593    695  5470 26184
Mathias Velho      - 516   1150  2626   169   41           O           19R    0        0      0 °    71    oRn         11624
cc_   _         -183    406   771   _   81     O      O      74    O       O      O    oo(            AAi  4769
_           _trbra
Petrobras            2362   526   9613            1110 8    0                         0R    O     17      1S7  1009  5596 1
Estelo                                  I.                                           _ _           _ _ _ -   -  -  -     _ _
2481j   551  1177    51    167   in    82   577          .    505             O    611    558  7646
_ .  ._ -_ cceccc _, ,_ 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                          611 _     _.6_46
Luiz Pasteur 
Luiz Pasteur __   5161  1139  1920  1I            232 21        127   6143 4n    808 2             618 ___    _        .1245.
Sapucaia            2006   3895  7173J  401   1039   InlX    518  2355  J28'  16141   573   541             6      0 p    7n
TOTAL:        -     6361  15245129404, 3725r  6247 Pn4s  6556 16563  1P   _12253  5918  5o   .338 .i55221j11L
Source: Mission estimates
January 1980



BRAZIL
SECOND IJRBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Station-to-Station Daily Passenger Traffic
Year:19
Destination         /     /                  //
Origin                                           \ 
Mercado Central        n   1046   524lSl        524  059   _ 7   10264 7691  7149 -)2I;   222   496i   n753 q5shs
Rodoviaria           87.    0    524           1047  234  21666    1469   896   4621 1006  8130 224Wz4
Farrapos              521   349    0    69   17t   6859  2049  4631  3758  294]1  1792  1204  1883 20753 49188
Aeroporto            174t 1046   698    0    175   439   142  _1__ 1                             384          344  5087
Ceasa                 344  1046  17)4   17'          110    306   362   355    112       1   113   100   713  69590
Niteroi            1233   2761  7903   7,2,  1405    0        0    408         __          0 C  C IL   374  2034 2816o
Fatima              426    951  2459   26,   42'        0     0°  ° I,(    0        0      0    Q]   164   887-
Canoas             1465   _ °    7969    1   100    498   208             623 L6o  22           811  1073   659 4NY
Mathias Velho       660   1438  3736   38    564    0         0    338    o         0      0   325   390  2120 15891
Sao Luis            2      -24           11- 14   7    0      0    133      0      0       0   272   520   909   6298
Petrobras      -    331    722 _1711   176    207    0        0                    0       0          423  1740    
Esteio              319    695  1732  146    236   240   105.  751  3!3            R ?    1     n         _8n1
Luiz Pasteur        7201  1542  3571   397    43    417   ]Ah f    nnO   564    047   702   rlo         0   561 18260 i          w
Sapucaia           2975   6585 16429 1450   1568  1536 fA(l  4,4   10S1 2516  1833   6               l9   hPi978O                H
T_QTAL:            R725  2190  4984C 7951   9475 °4345  RfRQO  qi51   1710(16141- 10107  7302 11208( 9229  38618
Source: Mission estimates
January 1980



BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Station-to-Station Daily Train Passengers
Year: 2000
' ' 
M:ercao Central        O   61            242 242    809 133        21188 11929i          92106   3 *4  710( ,An A
Pceovs-arja    .  | 1345       (   809  161f  1616   291C0. 1128  4360. 2451   25071 1970    68   142
Farrazos              80..  538       0  1078  2694   8083  2       9533  5667   5260  4-o°9  1786  284  42261 87336
Ae .rc.rtc           2694  1616  1078 _69    470   155   ohl.  182                  68     55      44     7     t q7
5f 16    2644   269      n  1159  3-4   401   379    126    86    120    O             58648
_________, _  1417   3113  9916            1626      0      O   685       0      0                  48   3394
F'a*zir,.a *         ton_   1070  3144   119  41Q7        0      0           O            _ a 0          snf0  1648      i
Ca.nDa~s   s  s          19534  4082 13516  1266  1573    915   490 _     1415   16s2   648   1154   1Eic  23082 70891 .
Nathi_-_s ___ _h _  8357   1755   5798    536             0 o        6?       °       o      O           519   43oo0 23085
; Tj5        | 329   679  2275  ]18    4Ji5         0o      Q                                             j4 O  O  1.7 ]   9742
Pc truibra:-;   _1  471   983  3494   311   378           0      0 °   r5      0     0       0o  234 _a    3836 1IL7P7
_______________ -.1 379           2440   196. 301           _         9RQ1065   483  692   464.    0    7yh     681 12093
1.uiz iPaAteur      8938  1754  4902   495   r1                     14j  2   _, 7
___________36930             3156  2368  2802   23A1   1149  9762  3524   4122  4o67   653    44'             0 7 i64 r3
Sapucala             306~~)t6  269                      118 514                                     6 q1
I!22!.:   llO9461l 27695 s4nz i194h 14121k   30047 1168] S0124  6  271972 1291  9883  16i  Sl4441 8606
Source:  Mission estimates
January 1980



- 62 -
96*    of 2
BRAZIL
SZC01 D  Ll TRASISPOR? PROJECT
Train 0,oratinoc  And ,oprTaias Costs
I Trdin Op rttcior
A. Canatal toforouaioo
Ooig4o~                                             )Marcado Stacioo (Central Bnein .a oitcrion, CSD)
D.tlnatia                                           S6pOOa=if
Root. LO.Snch                                       26. 7 k
AVATA.S train speed4                                42 6i4/h?
A.nt.9a train trip:
P.4k:                                22 km
Off. pe:                                 16 la
Oparatiol day                                       la boun
Pe.k                                       4 hmooT  (2 heT:o in the aarmi, 2 hor. ir tbR  srain;)
Yid-p01ki                                       2 hos (aid-day)
Off-peak:                                      12 hoors
A-..5  operating day  par ynr:                     300 days *qtimlmt
Urit train:                                          4 oar: (2 aatorlsd na,, 2 cars vith-.m  matr)
Unit triu 94. ta  capacityl                      1,200 MO pm,-n8 ' 300  a.osagtrs par car)
Drnt erdr. might:                                  204 eftric tons (58 nric i eon. sucb noariasd car .0d
44 _arti  ta.  *Aah car richaat -0tor)
A40r4:* p.s.4.g9r eaignh:                           70 kilogrm
Onit trin  maery oonsamplon:                        62.4  atc/botw  per Sros ton lon (CtR)
toracast Initial
Ooar.iion
Daily P?aaang r                             At Different LavI. of Tr.ffic
Traffic Dfily Paenaar Traffic
260.000            IOD100.000        200.000          3000              4,00v            50DOO
B.  Di.cribtcio0 of Tr.ff!i
(i)  Daily litribolion of Traffic
Paak-nid-paak   (6 hour) 727 of daily ps.aog.r craffic                           187,200              72,000          144,000           216,000          288.000           360.000
Off-p.4k       (12 h.o.s) 261 of diily pansa-r traffio                            72a800              28,000            56,000           84,000           112.000          140.000
(tI) Llitnntiocal. Splic of Traffi pe or hoot
P.ck - boah direti on3 1,200                                                                          12.000           000 00            36 000           4 .000            60 000
one vay (800)                                                              24,960              9,600            19.200           283800            388400           4d.000
- oppoett  diirctioo (207)                                                    6,240               2,400            4, 800           7,20D             9,600           12,000
Mid-pak - both dir_aion-                                                         31,Z00              12,000            24.000           36,000            43,000           60,000
noa ray (651)                                                         20,280               7.a00            15,600           23,400            31,200           39,000
oppoeit  di1rceton (351)                                              10,920               4,200             6,400           12,600            16.500           21.000
Off-p.Ak   bath directioni                                                          6,066              2,334             4,666            7000             9,334           :1,666
= on  ray (50L)                                                          3,033               1,167             2,333            3,500            4,667             5,833
oppoolt. dirVctio  (2502)                                              3.033               1,167             2,333            3,500             4.667            5,033
C.  9oer of Train.
704k hoot
00  of DraIn.                                                                             11                   8                3                12               16                20
No  of aint torin                                                                         22                   0               16                24               32                40
4id-poak ho..
N. of train                                                                                9                   7                7                10               13                16
"o  of -ait crat                                                                          1S                   7               14                20               26                32
Off-paak hour
No. of crainS                                                                                                  4 4              4                 4                S                 4
Mo. of rai t ca.in                                                                         4                  4                 4                 4                4                 6
2. Rda.oa 3BrVo-n Tr-inS (oinona.1
pank hot                                                                                     0.5                 7.               7.5               5 2              3 73              3.0
Mid-.pak hr                                                                                  6.6 6.35                               . 5             6 0               4 6              3.75
Offp-Ak hou                                                                                 15.0                 -0              13.0              15.0 15.0                          15.0
E.  71.at Uji-omnan  (Iaiitrtifn)
A-ragr   pa.k hour                                                                          22                   a                16               24                32               A0
tn  3npaieia.    ca                                                                          2                   2                3                 4                 6                7
Tonal (baead on -n S57 -ail.bility)                                                         25                  10               19                28               38                47
?.  ?-r-onn.I Ranirant  (staff  -ahlt?)
Top   nas t                                                                                  9                   9                9                 9                 9                9
114ddl. o-Ao   ant                                                                           10                 10                LO               10                10               10
S.p"r o.or.                                                                                 12                  10               12                12               12                14
Dri- rr                                                                                     33                  25               2S                35               411               SO
Ciarka                                                                                      60                  50               60                60                60               7
Stations                                                                                   366                 IS0              294               409              523               63e
Work.hop.                                                                                   Ss                  40               47                62                79       ,       §4
rnnrana n ay                                                                               036                  65               75                90              :05               120
Tot.a                                                                                 634                369               532              667               639             1.005
C. Oraracica Otaclilcos
tahb- of daily  =oli  tilp.                                                                220                 166              ISO               232               276              320
0arba  of daily rati  trwim  zrip.                                                         344                1I6               230               366              456               S40
D.ily  V. it-a:                                                                          4,264               3.560            3.560            4,528             5,496             6,4S4
Daily raiC trai-ko.                                                                      6,992               3.560           5S,S4              7,520            9 456            12.928
Daily posA  ton-wA                                                                   2,165,996          1.010,738         1.703,073        2,367,520         3.D66.962         2.163.996



- 63-
BRAZIL
Tr-in Oortlna- and Oo.ioCosts
Torunsut Initial
Oserution
Daily Puo-oa;o                                At Diff-ret L-IuS of TjoLf to
TraffIc                            3o,lr~~5-1  possapt Craf Is
!U~~~~~        100.000                     zoo.ow                     40C.Am200  000
crtmoCss(it n,d-1979 Cr0)
W-k-t Cost
Monthly sultry plus b-sits pat dtrust   Cr0$ 20,300
Total oost put day (Cr0)                                                               27,0600              20,0              20.300 0          20,7000           33,620             41.D00
Toa   ot par your (to thousand of Cr0)                                             8,1506100                              6100               ,1.               0M0             1.0
Total rou t P.. pausa$ur  (Cr)                                                               0.1040              3.2050            0 1023             0.0957            0.0641            0.0820
ros dptono  ooro   ar day8 of opertio (C   lowtth$)Ir                          135,108              63.070           106,384            164,981           191.370           233.325
Total onut Pr day1 (i Cr0  .7p.r  uf (Cr0)                                            105,423               49,105            83.136           116,2205           149.275           197.593
Total 0000 I0t y.... (eto thoon  ofC431,626.9                                                               14,708.4          24,940.5          34,861.6          44,702.5           59,278.0
ToL.rtl totpa.        auu.t.C0                                                                  0.4-054              0.4919            0.4137            0.3874             3.3732            0.39)2
5utlestud at 1.5% of u-ogy -tou
Toalcot par to  (Cr0 t..dfCr                                                         1.570                  735             1,24z             1,756             2,230             2.931
Total ca  Par P.or p (i (toCa,    o  C0                                                472.5                220.5             372.6             520.8             669.0              905 3
Tota  rout pot pasos C9                                                                       0.0060              0 0074            0.0062             0.0058            0.0056            0 2059
Aretoga ortl aayPlo  bhoeflto par   _ktar   Cr0 16.080
7.- -ons  rou  pu  dy(r)37,505                                                                              25,728            50,230            39,879            50.013            60.461
ysroos      d ou   pa   2or (i  tho,,on  of . Cr0) $                           11,191.7              7,718.4           9,069.1          11,963.5           25,243.6          10,120.2
aora -ro  par day . 257..of peso Cltout (r)9,326                                                     6,432             7,058             9,970            12. 703            17,115
Mora.. rost p   y. (Ist, osn o)C0                                                    27,798.             1,929.6           2.267 3            2,990.9           5,010.9           '.5.
Toa   otpar dan.. (Cr0)                                                         46,651.             952.160            57784,6                               3.516            75.576
Total rse put  oat (intltrruad of Cr)                           12,      79.7         ,660             11,356.4          14,954.4          195054.7,         52.6728
To?.   ta roa  pe  p            _ooo    (C0)0173 .216                                                                                  0.1869            0.1662            0.1509            0 1312
Persnto  rout t   da  (Cr0)         -di  .$                                           55M1                41,008            48,260             57.888            67.536            77,164
Pursonoel root par year (it thotoand of Cr0)                    ~~16,594.6           :.2.542.4          14420             17,366.4          20,260.8           22155.2
"fatansI rot P-r dY*  ). 20h-o feso nltou  (od                                         13,029               10,452            12.060            14.472             16.084            19.296
-otariol tou  pr  (cat (i   hsaio   r)4,148.6                                                                5,35.6            2,618.0           4,361.6            5,056.2           5,794.6
Totlrs-      a   a   C5                                                                59,144               52.2,60"          60.:300           72.3608440                           96,400
To Plon t Per  y .a Set (CrSas ofC9                                              20,743.2            15,670.0           10,0900           2,.0   0               23260        2,4.
Totl  rotptpssgr(r)0.2629                                                                                         05.226            0.           2130152 21.242021201
t.  Stit .cdrnmststavoCost                                                                                                           .cI,
Top tonaanan           Cr0 96,4800
Middle    m ug_,o   Cr  87,100
Co   tlos              Cr0 20.440
Cloths and utoouCo$ 16,080
Pr-osn      .. rot Put day (Cr0)             't                                       353,355             225,688           507.281            281.046           454,273           536,609
Pursosul rou  p.r yst Itothuosd of Cr0)                          tS)       106,006.5             67,706.4          92,124.3         114.314,4          136.31i.9         16,2
Ofir  sply and sqipeet oo.t" pun day   t0% ofpronl s   C0                               8.339               56.422            76,770            95.262           113.593           136.102
T.ffi1ou opply ady (Cue.$)      otpr  sr(nIhn do  Cr0)                                 26,501.6             16,926.6          23,03111          28,578.8          34,070.0          40.230a
7oos  ootprda   C541,684                                                                                  282,110           382.851            476,310           567.966           670.511
Total cost p.r cast (in thoosad of Cr0)                        132.308,~ ~~1 66,65                   113,155.4         143.895,0          170,289.9         505,155.5
Totni M-'coot  pa   auuu   C0                                                                      .882.8211                             1.9193            1.3477             1.4199            1.2410
)arlv (Cr0)                                                          691,55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27:4  436, 9 80    586,817         743,129            901,027         1,084.111
Toarly  (It thttauatd of Cr0)                                       207,4~~~~~~~~~~~~.50.4  13 .08796    176,3402.931        223,347.          270,304.1         325,233.6
Per pauuuoour (Cr0)                                         2.6094              4.3696             2.9541            2~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~.4940  2.2327  2.1683
G.  TnitTat
uti',ntad prits of     mi   Urio S83.200,000 orCr08320.
Tota  irraont roo t (it thsuacdd of -Cr0)                                           2.20.0000             032.000         1.500,800          2.329,600         3,16l.600         2,910.6100
57  eidulclY Petine   b-o thusn  of5 Cr0)         f    i.(C                  1.976,000              790.400         1.001,760         2,212,130         3,0035.20          2,714,886
TotoL d ilydeprt%iation. hand          .. on 23ya    f  sf    ie  C0                  263,467             105,387            200.233           293,083           400.467           490,317
TtL omma  deri- cl    (to- ruado   r)79,040.0                                                            31.616.0          60,570.0          88,525.0          120,140.1         16.90
Total doonutmation oar passangur                                     ~~~~~~~             ~~~~1.0133  1.05338  1.0011.         0.9836             1.0011           0 9906
4.  I -eaot war
lnfrouttturet
Toolco.    t rot  o  201.927,5GO
Tnlci,detn-ction  .-hnd on 40 ro.oraotlift (Cr))                              23,492              22.495             Z3.493            23492             02.491            ='.93.
TotalUp _onua  d p-atto    I    oan   fC0                                             7,040.0             '.048.0            7,048.5           7,048.0           70002,4 
Tota  5up35ato0pa                  24seno   (r6                                           5  94                   349            0.1174            0.0783            0 3587             3 0469
Tesurdual -1- f ofrilo Cr0 508,019,000
Toaldocly dupr-i-tlo. baud on 25 y" fo ofo-ful life (Cr0)                           67, 733             67,753            67,733            67.733             67. 733           67.733
Totalaaot.l dorstttloo(in thotuad of Cr0)                                    00,320.0             30,320.0          20.320,0          20,320.2a          20,320.0          20,230.0
Ttlduprurttios per p fssege  (Cr0)                                                      . 2605              0.6773            0.3386            0 2257            5.1695            0.1354



- 64 -
?9.. 3 of 3
SECON0D UR3SJI TPANSPO&. P7ROJSCT
Trrit  0Onrtllol  *nd OvotCtiu Colts
yo.41.0lt Intial
Or rs..tios
Daily 9.0-5st                             At Di001-14t "ovI    of rr-ffl
60100..         2D0.000          300.000         400.000          5CO. 00
I   StOs0lir. uLd T.looolioI
0C0.1 i-1av0   c .o.t Cr0 336,650.000
,0t1l daily 4.psc-tion. be.e .. 2 Y.=s of  .ef,.  11if  (CrS)                   4,8U3             44,S53          44,583           44,063          1.4.63           44.8S3
7T.t *Innul d4pO ltoO (L. tho s.sd of Crt)                                     23.465.0           13,465.0        13,465.0         13,465.0         13,465.0        13,465.0
0.1 depr. i.tion par  1. 1Sr4 t (Cr9)                                               5.1726             0.443a          0.2244           0.14g6           0 1122          0 097
J.  Elotsrtfiltloo - C-.r0/Sohltlc1olj
20001 100101110 01St CrS 310.432,2000
T.011 daily depo1tLaioo, basd oo  5 y2 e rz  of uo a.l life (Cr5)              42.456             42.456          42.456           42,436          42.456           42.456
70t0I c.0.L d4p.l-I.Cton (LL. thou.cd of Cr6)                                  12,737.0           12,737.0        12,737.0         12,737.0         12.737.0        12,737.0
TOM. 4d c9i.tiot   "T r   .-Ms" (Cr0)                                              0.1633             0.4245          02Z122           021415           0.106t          0.0S49
201.1 1l'l     t 00Y.0nc   CtS 661,325,D00
0...1 d.4. d.praotitieo. 0e.  eo 40 y-, t  o f 0Sa6   lif. (CTS)               55,110             55,110          55.110           550,10          55,120           55.110
Tt0.1 . 1 dl,o001tion (io thou.e4 of Cr$)                                      16,533 0           16,533.0        16,533.0         156,33.0        16,333.0         15,333.0
0.1'. 4Iept. Ii6t3 9p*  possons6r (CtS)                                             0.2119             0.5511          0.1735           0.1837          0.1377           0.1102
LStations
Total  t-c1n0  0011 Cr$ 430. 7290D0
T.1, Soil, d4pr.t.1ti.o. b.o.d 0o 40 y-oa  of  ...61 lif. (Cr9)                35,893             35,893          35,193           35,193          35,d93           35,393
01.1 L.-01 d4pr.istion (in  0ho0.506 of Cr0)                                   10,768.0           10,766.0        10.76800         10,768.0        10,768.0         10,768.0
Tota1  4apr?i.clioo p? p0s.mnsar (Cli)                                              0. 1380            0.3589          0.1794           0. 1196         0.0697           0.0717
h. oorklhol.
Total io1so.t Cr0 73,300.000
T7t11 doily d-oacitoi. . b..d " 40 y.or. of 101f.1 lif. (Cr0)                 6,110              6,110           6,110            S,110           6,110            6.110
Torto  1_0*  d-,r .ition (in th- d of C.00                                    1,033.0           1,033.0          1,633.0          1.603,0         I.SS330    1, .33,0
Tot1l d.pt,ol .1 91 pr p5-    so  (Cr6)                                           0.0235             0.0611          0.0305           0.0203          030152           0.0122
701-1 i-l-Ic   ..st CrS 71.212,000
T7011 itto*t .o.. to b. d1p410 ed, aft. r 011.111 for 
rliJidu   01104 of r-L. Cr0 64,091,000
Tota1 doily 4.pr cLteieo, b*d 00 25 yo c. of v 1£vl ItS (CrS)                 S,545                 5            S,545            0.545           S.545            8.545
Total  o*1 84prbcalon (1. c1-houod of C0.)                                    2,564.0            2,504.0         2.564,0          2,64,0         2,564.0          2,564.0
70c.1 dprboi lioa p9r peJC os1t (Cr0)                                             0.0329             0.0854          0.0427           0.0234          0.0213           0.0171
TgIll 1Ovl.c0t 00.1o Cr0 37.703,L000
Total i-  54tr 0o00c  to 10 4.preied,  e s110.44$ for e
n% t4sidl I L0* Cr0 54,820,000
701.1 d61l1 rdvt cietion, bc*d OD 10 y7         of u..u1 ILf. (C.$)          10,150             10,150          10,150           10,150          10,150           10,150
7011 1 41104  819o.leotl.  (L. thv0s od of CrS)                               3,045.0            3,045.0         3,045.0          3,045.0         3,345.0          3,045.0
201.1 dapseoioLeo par pamooga  (CrS)                                              0.0390             0.1015          0.0507           0.0338          0.0253           0.0203
y.  Astdintlr.on 1od Other 3ui1100
701.  imot,nt ..C c         071,700
Tom..  daily daprsi.ti.oo., be. 0D 40 yell, of o ful lif. (Cr0)                 4,7                4,79            4,790            4 790           4 790            1,479
.01. l   o-l d4prloialtt, (io cho.u.   of Cr$)                                  1437 .0           1,437 .0         1,457 .0         1,437.0         14370            1,437.0
otacl SIprIoiOoLo  pa s1 441gor (Cr9)                                               0.01h4             0.0479          0.0239          0.0159           0.0119           0.0095
70oc1 D prloi*lloo
Oally (Cri)                                                                         562.630            404,550         499,396          594 246         699,630          794.480
Yoorly (iI 1100.5.  of Cr0)                                                         160,790.0          121,386.0       149,620.0        170,273.0       209,090.0        230,345.0
Pa pooobn;s  (Cr6)                                                                        2.1635             6.0452          2.4964           1.9804           1. 7455         1.56Y5
I.11y (Cr0)                                                                       1,254.157            841.510       1,086,213        1,339,405        1,600,657       1187.,591
Yoorly (1i  thouo..    of Cr0)                                                      376,243.4          252,453.9       325,865.1        401,822.0       400,198.1        563,576.6
?.r pa..eo    (Cr0)                                                                       4.8229             3.4148           5.4305          4 4644          4.00i2           3.7568
lot.-  24.  -..taan1 0001       h4011  irIO 1id6  lhs phy.60-Looolao             ri 96.01010n0 -.   001 :001400
hl.6 .o.ts shol in ch t bl.   . in sid-1979 CrS.
0b-6 1979



- 65 -                            TABLE 3.2
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Permanent Way Maintenance Equipment
Items                                    Quantity      Estimated Cost (US$)
1. Transportation Equipment
Road truck                                1               31,000
Road/rail truck                           2              122,000
Motor trolley with 4 trolleys             1                 9,000
Trolley with collapsible platform         2                4,000
Subtotal                                 166,000
2.  Light Equipment
Portable tampers                          5               58,000
Rail drill                                3                 2,000
Rail saw                                  3                 2,000
Rail grinder                              1                 1,000
Sleeper adzing machine                    1                8,000
Sleeper drilling machine                  2                3,000
Sleeper banding machine                   1                1,000
Screwing machine                          5                8,000
Joint rectifier machine                   1                2,000
Rail switch grinder                       1                1,000
Subtotal                                  86,000
3.  Tools and Other Equipment
Track jacks 15 tons                       4                1,000
Track jacks 10 tons                       8                1,000
Track gauges                              4                   500
Portable telephone UHF                    4                 8,000
VHF (FM) equipment                        2                5,000
Portable motor generator set              4               26,000
Aluminothermic welding equipment          2                5,500
Normal maintenance tools set and
miscellaneous                         1               29,000
Subtotal                                  76,000
Total                                    328,000
Source: GEIPOT, Porto Alegre
January 1980



- 66 -
BRAZIL                                   TABLE 3.3
Page 1 of
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Depot Maintenance Equipment
Estimated Cost
Item                                              Quantity              (US$)
1.  Depot Equipment
Overhead traveling crane 5/15 ton                 1                 234,000
(14 meter span)
Overhead traveling cranes 5 ton                   2                 327,000
(11.6 and 18.6 meter span)
Washing machine for train set                     1                 116,000
Pit wheel lathe                                   1                 536,000
High pressure cold water cleaning
machine for unit train parts                    1                    4,700
Hydraulic hoisting machine for
unit train trucks                                1                 233,000
Jacks 15 ton                                      4                  58,300
1,509,000
Sub-total
2. Electric and Mechanical Equipment
Lathe 1,500 mm                                    1                  21,000
Horizontal shaping machine 500 mm                 1                   7,000
Column drilling machine up to 50 mm  diam.        1                   9,000
Bench drilling machine up to 25 mm  diam.         1                   1,500
Column grinding machine                           1                   1,800
Hydraulic saw                                     1                   2,500
Electric welding TIG machine                      1                   1,500
Oxy-acetilene welding and cutting
equipment                                        1                     800
Electric cutting machine with graphite
electrodes                                       1                   1,900



- 67 -
TABLE 3.?
Estimated Cost
Item                                                   Quantity             (US$)
Fork lift                                              1                26,000
Various instrument and tool sets                       -                53 000
Sub-total                                          126,000
3. Workshop equipment to be installed in the
depot to be transferred to the workshop
in Phase II
Hydraulic press 100 ton                                1                  7,000
Armature lathe and commuter bar                                          33,000
undercutting machine
Stoving oven (to dry traction motor                    1                  4,600
windings)
Shot blasting machine with glass
microsphere (to clean electric sets)                  1                  3,700
Rectifier to recharge batteries                        1                  1,800
Rectifier for welding machine                          1                  1,300
Deionizer set for battery water treatment              1                  1,200
Hydraulic pump (to remove bearings and
pinions)                                              1                  7,000
Gas tempering furnace                                  1                  2,300
Dynamic rotor balancing machine                        1                 70,000
Universal tool sharpening machine                      1                 29,000
Miscellaneous (shelves, tool cabinets,
lockers, etc.)                                                         __3__10
Sub-total                                          194,000
TOTAL                                            1,829,000
Source: GEIPOT, Porto Alegre
January 1980



BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Teclnical Assistance Program
tlaz^-Months                Cost (CrS Million)
1981       1982 1   1983  1   1984 1  1985           1986                 Local   Foreign   Total         Local a/   Foreign b/   Total
Technical Assistance
A.  TRENSURN/P.A.
i.  Setting lip 'IRENSURh/P.A.                                                                                           66        66       132       17.03         28.38         45.41
(a) Orgarization and Management                                                                                                                                                        z
(b) Training and Staffing
(c) Accounts
(d) Financial Maniagement
(e) Operations
(f) Impleancntation
2.  Phase 11 Economic and Financial t                                                                                    24         _         24        6.19           _           6.19
Feastbility Study
B.  Other'Complementary PoliLies ald
Programs
t. Satellite Automobile Parks,
Auto Restraint Pol icy and
Monitoring                                                                                                           44        40        84        11.35        17.20         28.55
2.  Bus Kuutes                                                                                                           36         9        45         9.29          3.87        13.16
1.  Tariff Policy                                                                                                         -        24        24          -           1(1.32       10.32
C.  UPrban Impact
1.  Commercial CeLter Developnment
and Master Plaii Assistance                                                                                          18        24        42        4.64         10.32         14.96
188       163       351       48.50         70.09        118.59
a/ lS$tb,00(0/man ceonth.
b/ IIS$10,000(i/mai H111 .d1.
Soulce:  G;IP(I'I, 1'1, Co Al.-5-;  lil'll .mu'd Missloi
March PL8tiO



1981 _______        8982                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1983               19814                                     14-1  E.-.di,db.  !jjI   1-9114
I  7,-a  I.f ... I-,...              1.,011        19. 261      917.012      172. 39S       28.822       201,211      134.1 31       I1I.1a39      142.290      39.547           1. 390      41.145       1.33.884        60.84o        604.124      9,038         1.419       1I1. 201
a  T-I S,0888...      ,oo           62.986         41.94.9      104.935       216,314       1 56.695      373.009      259,685        181.280      440.965    106.331            66.3S34      172.891      64 S.31.2      416.458      i.091.600    1S,0O08        II0,033       03.381
I3.4 .6.8.1. i-   4 8,-4 V.W.1o.,,
139.3 1         21.881       160.442      349.3S63        52.682      4082.245      354.027         54.042      408.06       143,828.         Z2.401      t6b6.221      986.111        030.204      1.136.983   22.948           3.494       26.442
4. 0888.08                ~~~~~~           ~~~79 2110  71.880  81,23 I s  I8.691    29.300       207.991      173,930        109.202       283.130      14.308          87.1782      162.290       106.398       234.164        740.363    II.717          3.446        11.213
SoIldInol           61.124           2~~~~~~~~~~~~.64 7  64.973  142.273      9:931       III23         99.337          I.1          0,61        1.0              2.19         21,407       221.766         25,s.31      341.7 1. V   7483             593        8.016
6. 88., 0800888* 08p.8 6q..~~~~~~~~~~~~o,.,s,  -           1.~~~6 1      19,314        21.]83        3.23?         39.328       42.334        26'23          89.174        2 .319        6,473         78.636         Ss82          131         8.81          1.90
7. 1..-8    887 gq08p8001                                          -                                                       -01.84                     1.03         -1. 042                      7. 042                      14.0#5         It.083A     -               228          3&28
8.  ..080808                                         9.266        9.266        27.460        413.68        712.4         32.7          44,930        87.90 7       S.357                         S .3551     65.914        109.900        I7.1 15K     I. 323       2.3356       46.089
9. 018n01l108            -             36.~~~~~~~~~~~)b429  38.429  4S:312     126.395       71.0?         41,241        131,793       119.042      13.776                        1 8.716      106.333       296.619        402.934      2.473         6. n8         9.322
IC. 61.,,i  O808-                                    40.337       40.291       43,12 Is       31.3 74      196. 499      6329117       718.801       2717 78      32.192             -32,792                 143.894       403 .532       141.462      3.341         8.383        12.132
II: 8.8.1111   .  POrkino                                                                                                 SI.   -    8123  19,263    180.921      27.089           6.482        33.Sl1       1088.4           319          1409         .3              9           .
12.   8.8o2o8ol                      24 12                        2.I2       ------ _                                                                                                                        82  --  ____     . ,122  _ ____,824 2    19_166                      19-6
30bl.1.1         1.244.Oln         161.870   1.426,146   1.118.656           620.483   1,799.169   8,252,006          828.973   2.080.919    462.605            214.392       678.071   4.139.252    1.845.718          S.984,978   96.261         42.927       139 .108
13. 6,18Is.108.336                                 433.430       341.788       IBO.396       72230.4       902.960       232,034     1,81:1.338    1.24A.1172    180.S96         722.384       902.980O      122.384     1.889.533      3,611.920   16.800          61.9          8.9
14. Uob   Sp...  '.8                                                                             -            -           28.0953       11,81        144 476      26.895         113.082       144.477        51.190       211.163        288.933      1.344         3.376         6,120
13. T-k,oic18  A8..i        /  3- 5484                7.337   _12_821    _ 16.113             23 091      _  1_330   __  9060           18.137        291         1009            22.461        32.6          30.931       7)   93        114 9 24     k.184         1 711         2 893
3,,18   1.338,110         622.631   1.981,355   1,235.555    1.361.924   2.133,479   1. 341.615    1,974,629   3.517,444    683.210                   1.014.820   1.758,090   4.970.3571         .040,010   10.010.367  143.5mg    111.212              232.hOl
16. pI,y.bc.I,C0nI,.Is.
':',. lo    o...n1             1.4               .b1b       14,266        11.101         4.203        11.992        12.520         0.289        20,809       4.634           1.45          6.181       41.392          18.438        39.830         962         429          1.392
87. P".. Co.u1108,88
11   4..88.  78,  91
07  -, 1982. 17 8. 1901 -4.
3 37 A .,o £8.tolb-  ..,8
08 19841                      ..L1l            IL -%4       41I-724       486 911        40~"         11A20 61      684 380      -163.338t   1. 348.131~    30,5            4M0           11_4.238    1,0,8          I. .          3_318 696?i                41 3893is
12A68   8A01     _KtAb,9            762.399   1.4911349   18!4.313    I.M1.?1    ).  011Ab3   J,jj,97 9_               ,4,6    4.90b. 384    99_6              1.SS0.2b626 3912              6 _.. 037,3  6f13674    13.448 _911  83.7.             $90          3 I .fr
j711..~~oi.l.6o.n~. l   8984 8-884.88  P-0,1,-  8.8 868 -08t-0888  .84 0P81tl-8i 8... .8t-   P-8- 88 to  198S  8  1986 828. 1.6. 2.4).
WM)T    0308 00   6 3 C8....    1l.,,,   9803
08.8.    31POf, ro.-, 08888. -04 m88.8
8.-b 8986



II 4 A II.
Sf:,l  IIANrANIi,   "IILO]VTI:
'a..  914(4                                19141                                                          9142                                                         1991                                                            9144                                    Ia.<,         914~~~~~~~~~~~~~til,  2    ~dtl
Tre~~~k I~~h*a14tt9.
2  IrTIk 1aa*r.
vlddiag faa or
siddl.9
Lspt   eai.
Idd ..
SaI.Pay at
§ft s'. C. la.6  o
EfTtttf cat&o-
-mi-t. 1.-
Pf.utII
Liddlat ftar a-
L  S!E!   pIF at.  .,    lg..
Fa9 rh0



- 71 -                          ABLE  .-
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan
Category I                                                        Cost
(US$ Million)
Track Superstructure
(i)    8,202 tons of 57 kg rails for 26.7 km of double
track main line                                           3,300
(ii)   1,596 tons of 45 kg rails for sidings and yards              650
(iii)  93,000 concrete sleepers and rail fittings for
7'26.7 km of double track main line                         2,870
14
(iv)   9 16 switches for sidings and yards                        2,520
Total Category I            9,340
Catesgo*! II
Unit trains and related spare parts
(i)    25 electric unit trains of two motor coaches and
two trailers                                             83,998
(ii)   spare parts for the 25 electric unit trains                5,372
Total Category II          89,370
Category III
Signalling and Electrification
(i)    Centralized traffic control system (CTC) and opera-
tional center for signalization                           6,200
(ii)   Electrical equipment such as transformers,
rectifiers, switches and catenary                         7,990
Total Category III         14,190



- 72 -                      TABLE 4.2
Page 2 of 2
Category IV                                                     Cost
(US$ Million)
Maintenance equipment (Tables 3.2, 3.3)
(i)    Machine tools and other equipment for
maintenance depot                                        1,890
(ii)   Track maintenance equipment                                330
Total Category IV          2,220
Category V
Technical assistance (Table 3.4)
(i)    The establishment of TRENSURB/P.A. (66 man-months)
(ii)   Satellite automobile parks, auto restraint policy
and monitoring (40 man-months)
(iii)  Bus routes (9 man-months)
(iv)   Commercial center development and master plan
assistance (24 man-months)
(v)    Tariff policy in MRPA (24 man-months)
Total Category V           1,710
GRAND TOTAL             116,830
Physical Contingencies (3.67%)             4,290
Price Contingencies (Table 3.5)           37,880
Amount of Loan         159,000
March 1980



- 73 -                            TABLE 4.3
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANISPORT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
US$ Million
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                          Quarter           Cumulative
1981
To September 30, 1980
To December 31, 1980
To March 31, 1981
To June 30, 1981                                         0.1                 0.1
1982
To September 30, 1981                                   19.4                19.5
To December 31, 1981                                     0.6                20.1
To March 31, 1982                                        3.2                23.3
To June 30, 1982                                         3.4                26.7
1983
To September 30, 1982                                   17.7                44.4
To December 31, 1982                                    17.7                62.1
To March 31, 1983                                       14.0                76.1
To June 30, 1983                                        14.0                90.1
1984
To September 30, 1983                                   14.2               104.3
To December 31, 1983                                    16.7               121.0
To March 31, 1984                                       19.4               140.4
To June 30, 1984                                        18.2               158.6
1985
To September 30, 1984                                    0.1               158.7
To December 31, 1984                                     0.3               159.0
Principal Assumptions
1. Effective date of loan not later than iNovember 1, 1980
2. Bid invitation for Track Materials and Rolling Stock not later than
November 1, 1980.
Source: Mission estimates
March 1980



BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Forecast of TRENSURB/P.A.'s Financial Statements (1985-1990)
Income Accounts and Balance Sheet
(In millions of mid-1979 Cr$)
1985     1986      1987      1988     1989      1990                        A)   NOTES
1)   The income statement is based on the following
I   INCOME ACCOUNTS                                                                                                                      passenger traffic forecast:
Revenues                                                                                                                                       Daily       Yearly (in thousands)
Passenger Fares                         471.6    516.6    561.6    608.4    653.4    698.4                                       1985       262,000            78,600
Expenses                                                                                                                           1986       287,000             86,100
Personnel                               142.9    149.4    156.4    164.8    172.2    178.9                                       1987       312,000            93,600
Energy/Lubricants                        32.1     34.7      36.6      39.3      41.8      44.3                                   1988       338,000           101,400
Materials/Other                          33.7      35.3     36.9      38.9      40.6      42.3                                   1989       363.000            108,900
Total Working Expenses                  208.7    219.4    229.9    243.0    254.6    265.5                                       1990       388,000            116,400
Depreciation                            170.0    175.8    182.7    191.9    199.8    206.8
Total Operating Expenses                378.7    395.2    412.6    434.9    454.4    472.3                                 2)   Estimated project cost excluding price contingencies
Operating Profit                           92.9    121.4    149.0    173.5    199.0    226.1                                       in mid-1979 Cr$ is Cr$ 5,808.8 million.
Financial Revenues                        6.1     20.9      37.6      41.5      36.7      32.6                        B)   ASSUMPTIONS
Financial Expenses                        --        --       --      206.7    189.5    172.1                                    Income Accounts:
Net Surplus                                99.0    142.3    186.6        8.3      46.2      86.5                                  - Revenues:  Based on a tariff of Cr$ 6.00
_____                                                per passenger through the period 1985-1990.
Working ratio                           44        42       41        40        39        38                                    Operating Expenses
Operating ratio                         80       77        73        71        70        68                                    - Labor, energy, material and depreciation costs are based
Return on Estimated Project Costs (Z) 1.6          2.1       2.5      3.0       3.4       3.9                                    on mid-1979 Cr$ prices and were derived from the unit
Return on Net Fixed Assets (%)           1.5       2.0      2.5       3.1       3.7       4.3                                    operating cost analysis given in Table 3.1.
Financial Revenues:
Represent interest earned on investments.
II   CASN ON hAND                                                                                                                        Financial Expenses:
Beginning of Year                            --    269.0    587.1    956.4    812.1    713.6                                        Represent interest paid on long-term borrowings.                             a
plus                                                                                                                              Balance Sheets
Operating Surplus                          92.9    121.4    149.0    173.5    199.0    226.1                                      -  Current assets represent 1/12 of the yearly cash
Depreciation of fixed assets              170.0    175.8    182.7    191.9    199.8    206.8                                         generation which is maintained in Bank Accounts.
Financial Revenues                          6.1      20.9     37.6      41.5      36.7      32.6                                     It also includes other cash available to pay for
Less                                                                                                                                 current liabilities.
Repayment of EBTU Loan-principal            --       --        --      344.5    344.5    344.5                                    -  Investments represent 11/12 of the surplus cash
-interest           --      --        --       206.7    189.5    172.1                                       generation which is maintained in interest bearing
End of Year                               269.0    587.1       956.4   812.1    713.6    662.5                                       bank accounts.
-  Inventories represent a minimum stock of spare parts
III.  BALANCE SHEET                                                                                                                           and other materials equivalent to 8% of the unit train
Assets                                                                                                                               costs,
Current Assets                          43.4     47.4        51.3    55.5      59.5      63.5                                  -  Fixed assets represent the original project costs, in mid-
Investments                            247.1    562.3      928.8   781.6    680.4    626.3                                        1979 Cr$, (excluding price contingencies) after considering
Inventories                            166.4    166.4      166.4   166.4    166.4    166.4                                        the depreciation charges.  ?t also includes  Cr$ 730
Fixed Assets (net)                  6,202.4  6,026.6   5,843.9 5,652.0  5,452.2  5245.4                                           million which represents the estimated value of land
holdings presently owned by the Federal Railway, the
Total Assets                            6,659.3  6,802.7   6,990.4 6,655.5  6,358,5  6,101.6                                         State of Rio Grande do Sul and Porto Alegre Municipality
-  -                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and which would be transferred to TRENSURB/P.A. in exchange
Liabilities and Equity                                                                                                               of share capital ownership.
Current Liabilities                     21.5      22.6      23.7    25.0       26.3      27.4                                  -  Current liabilities represent accounts payable and refer
Long Term Borrowings                                                                                                              to about 9. and 13% of the yearly personnel (Social Security)
Loan from EBTU                   4,134.0  4,134.0   4,134.0 3,789.5  3,445.0  3,100.5                                          and energy/material costs.
Equity                                                                                                                         -  Long-Term borrowings represent the loan obtained from EBlt;
Share Capital                    2,404.8  2,404.8   2,404.8 2,404.8  2,404.8  2,404.8                                          i.e.US$ 159 million or Cr$ 4,134 million.
Reserves                            99.,0    241.3      427.9   436.2    482.4    568.9                                     -  Share Capital represents land and/or cash contributions from
2,0.8......~  2,4.1...  2.832.7 2.841.0  2      2,973.7                                       TRENSURB/P.A.'s shareholders.
Total Liabilities and E6uity           6,659.3  6,802.7   6,990.4 6,655.5  6.358.5  6,101,6                                        - Reserves represent the accumulation of TRENSURB/P.A. 's
yearly net surplus.
Source: Mission estimate
January 1980



BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Financial Sensitivity Analysis *
Tariff per Passenger
Cr$ 6       Cr$ 5       Cr$ 4       Cr$ 3       Cr$ 2
Total Revenues                                               471.6       393.0       314.4       235.8       157.2
Base Case Operating Costs
Working expenses                                       208.7       208.7       208.7        208.7       208.7
Operating expenses                                     378.7       378.7       378.7        378.7       378.7
Working ratio                                           44          53          66           88         133
Operating ratio                                         80          96         120         161          241
Operating Costs (30% Higher Personnel Costs)
Working expenses                                       251.5       251.5       251.5        251.5       251.5
Operating expenses                                     421.5       421.5       421.5       421.5        421.5
Working ratio                                           53          64          80          107         160
Operating ratio                                         89         107         134          179         268
Operating Costs (60% Higher Personnel Costs)
Working expenses                                       294.4       294.4       294.4        294.4       294.4
Operating expenses                                     464.4       464.4       464.4        464.4       464.4
Working ratio                                           62          75           94         125         187
Operating ratio                                         98         118         148          197         295
Operating Costs (100% Higher Personnel Costs)
Working expenses                                       351.6       351.6       351.6        351.6       351.6
Operating expenses                                     521.6       521.6       521.6        521.6       521.6
Working ratio                                           75          89         112          149         224
Operating ratio                                        111         133         166          221         332
Note:  Revenues and expenses are shown in millions of mid-1979 Cr$.
Operating expenses is the sum of working expenses and depreciation.
* Pertains to first year of operation.
Source: Mission estimates



- 76 -                               TABLE 6.1
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Alternative I
(Cr$ million, mid-1979)
Road Vehicle
Road            Operating Costs      Road Passenger
Capital       Maintenance                            Travel Tme Costs
Year        Costs            Costs A'       Car         Bus__ _/    Car      Bus c_/  Total
1981        479.71
1982        664.21
1983        885.62
1984                         1.15            846        618       225        514      2,204
1985                         1.15            906        657      241         546      2,351
1986                         1.15            966        696       257        578      2,498
1987                         1.15          1,030        737      274         612      2,654
1988                        49.15          1,098        780      292         648      2,867
1989                         1.15          1,170        826       311        686      2,994
1990                         1.15          1,239        873       330        725      3,168
1991                         1.15          1,296        917       351        768      3,333
1992                         1.15          1,356        963      373         813      3,506
1993                        49.15          1,418      1,011       397        861      3,736
1994                         1.15          1,483      1,062      422         912      3,880
1995                         1.15          1,551      1,115      449         966      4,082
1996                         1.15          1,622      1,171      477       1,023      4,294
1997                         1.15          1,697      1,230      507       1,083      4,518
1998                        49.15          1,775      1,292      539       1,147      4,802
1999                         1.15          1,857      1,357      573       1,215      5,003
2000                         1.15          1,947      1,411      606       1,280      5,245
2001                         1.15          2,037      1,482      644       1,356      5,520
2002                         1.15          2,131      1,556      685       1,436      5,809
2003                        49.15          2,229      1,634       728      1,521      6,161
a Road maintenance costs on the new bus expressway. Road maintenance costs on the
existing road system are assumed to be the same under all the project alternatives in-
cluding the base case and, therefore, it was not taken into account in the economic
analysis, which explains their omission from Tables 6-1 through 6-6. Of course, theo-
retically, this assumption is a simplification since the traffic assigned to BR-116 is
different under the various alternatives, and to the extent that road maintenance costs
vary with traffic, the former would be different under each alternative. However, since
the variable road maintenance component is relatively small for all the alternatives and
the difference in variable maintenance between each of the alternatives and the base
case is even smaller, the error from its omission is insignificant and surely would not
change any of the conclusions.
-/ Buses on the bus expressway during peak hours are expected to have an average occupancy
rate of 60 passengers/bus compared with 81 for intermunicipal buses at present.
-/ Includes estimated walk/wait time.
Source: Mission estimates
January 1980



- 77 -
TABLE 6.2
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Alternative II
(Cr$ million, mid-1979)
Rail            .           .             Passenger Travel
Right-of-Way    Vehicle Operating Costs         Time Costs  /
Capital   Maintenance           Road                         Road
Year      Costs        Costs         Car       Bus      Rail       Car     Bus   Rail   Total
1981     532.74
1982     737.65
1983     778.63
1984                  30.39          840       383       118       217     341    192   2,121
1985                  30.39          906       428       118       241     387    192   2,302
1986                  30.39          972       473       118       265     433    192   2,483
1987                  30.39        1,043       523       118       291     484    192   2,681
1988                  30.39        1,119       578       118       320     541    192   2,898
1989                  30.39        1,201       639       118       351     605    192   3,136
1990                  30.39        1,289       705       118       384     673    192   3,391
1991                  30.39        1,361       743       118       409     709    192   3,'62
1992                  30.39        1,437       783       118      436      747    192   3,743
1993                  30.39        1,517       825       118       465     787    192   3,934
1994                  30.39        1,602       870       118       496     830    192   4,138
1995                  30.39        1,692       917       118      529      875    192   4,353
1996                  30.39        1,787       967       118      564      922    192   4,580
1997                  30.39        1,887    1,019        118       601     972    192   4,819
1998                  30.39        1,993    1,074        118      641   1,024    192   5,072
1999                  30.39        2,105    1,132        118      683   1,079    192   5,339
2000                  30.39        2,214    1,188        118       725   1,138    192   5,605
2001                  30.39        2,338    1,252        118       773   1,199    192   5,902
2002                  30.39        2,469    1,320        118      824   1,264    192   6,217
2003                  30.39        2,607    1,391        118      878   1,332    192   6,548
a/ Includes estimated walk/wait time.
Source: Mission estimates
January 1980



- 78 -                            TABLE 6.3
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Alternative III
...____ __________(Cr$ million, mid-1979)
Rail          Vehicle Operating         Passenger Travql
Right-of-Way             Costs                 Time Costs _
Capital    Maintenance          Road                        Road
Year       Cost          Costs        Car       Bus   Rail        Car       Bus      Rail     Total
1981     831.98
1982   1,151.97
1983   1,215.97
1984                    25.33         784      319    203         209     277       242      2,059
1985                    25.33         797      337    214         212     304       271      2,160
1986                    25.33         810      355    225         215     331       300      2,261
1987                    25.33         823      374    237         218     360       332      2,369
1988   a   77.16        25.33         836      394    250         221     392       368      2,486
1989   al 725.72        25.33         849      415    263        225      427       407      2,611
1990                    25.33         863      439    277         229     466       449      2,748
1991                    25.33         904      462    289         240     485       468      2,873
1992                    25.33         947      486    301         252     505       488      3,004
1993                    25.33         992      511    314         264     526       509      3,141
1994                    25.33       1,040      538    328         277     548       531-    3,287
1995                    25.33       1,090      566    342         291     570       554      3,438
1996                    25.33       1,142      595    357         305     593       578      3,595
1997                    25.33       1,197      626    372         320     617       603      3,760
1998                    25.33       1,254      659    388         336     642       629      3,933
1999                    25.33       1,314      693    405         352     668       656      4,113
2000                    25.33       1,374      730    422         365     695       683      4,294
2001                    25.33       1,440      768    440         383     724       712      4,492
2002                    25.33       1,509      808    459        402      754       743      4,700
2003                    25.33       1,581      850    479        422      785       775      4,917
a/ Workshop facilities for general overhauls required after the first five years of operation.
b/ Includes estimated walk/wait time.
Source: Mission estimates
January 1980



- 79 -
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Alternative IV
(CrS million, mid-1979)
Rail          Vehicle Operating    I  Passenger Trav 1
Right-of4ltay            Costs                 Time Costsa
Capital    Maintenance          Road                        Road
Year       Cost          Costs        Car       Bus   Rail       s Rail             Rail      Total.
1981  l   780.35
1982    1,080.49
1983    1,140.51
1984                  23.76           790      421    116       210       379      146       2,086
1985                  23.76           849      492    116       226       446      146       2,298
1986                  23.76           908      563    116       242       513      146       2,511
1987                  23.76           972      645    116       259       590      146       2,751
1988                  23.76         1,040      739    116       277       679      146       3,020
1989                  23.76         1,113      846    116       296       781      146       3,321
1990                  23.76         1,187      961    116       316       921      146       3,670
1991                  23.76         1,262      998    116       343       963      146       3,851
1992                  23.76         1,342   1,037    116        372    1,007       146       4,043
1993                  23.76         1,427   1,077    116        404    1,053       146       4,246
1994                  23.76         1,517   1,119    116        438    1,101       146       4,460
1995                  23.76         1,613   1,163    116        475   11,152       146   1  4,688
1996                  23.76         1,615   1,208    116        515    1,205       146       4,928
1997                  23.76         1,823   1,255    116        559    1,260       146       5,182
1998                  23.76         1,938   1,304    116        607    1,318       146      5,452
1999                  23.76         2,060   1,355    116        659    1,379       146      5,738
2000                  23.76         2,180   1,405    116        714    1,439       146      6,023
2001                  23.76         2,317   1,460    116        775    1,505       146      6,342
2002                  23.76         2,463   1,517    116        841    1,574       146      6,680
2003                  23.76         2,618   1,576    116        912    1,646       146       7,037
a/ Includes estimated walk/wait time.
Source: Mission estimates
Janiiarv 1QRO



- 80 -
TABLE 6.5
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Alternative V
(Cr$ million, mid-1979)
Rail Right-of-NW   Vehicle Ope ating Costs Passenger Travel Time Costs c,
Capital   Mainte ance Cost        Road                      Road                   |
Year      Costs      Roaw        Rail   Car    Bus2.   Rail       Car    Bus       Rail        Tctal
1981      801.94
1982    1,110.38
1983    1,172.07
1984                 1.53        14.3   842    609    2.79       227    571      0.64          2,268
1985                 1.53        14.3   921    640    2.79       250    599      0.64          2,429
1986                 1.53        14.3 1,CG0    671    2.79       273    627      0.64          2,590
1987                 1.53        14.3 1,086    703    2.79       298    656      0.64          2,762
1988                65.37        14.3 1,179    737    2.79       326    687      0.64          3,012
1989                 1.53        14.3 1,280    772    2.79       356    719      0.64          3,146
1990                 1.53        14.3 1,395    809    2.79       389    754      0.64          3,366
1991                 1.53        14.3 1,477    835    2.79       417    795      0.64          3,543
1992                 1.53        14.3 1,564    862    2.79       447    838      0.64          3,730
1993                65.37        14.3 1,656    890    2.79       479    883      0.64          3,991
1994                 1.53        14.3 1,754    918    2.79       513    931      0.64         4,135
1995                 1.53        14.3 1,857    947    2.79       549    981      0.64         4,353
1996                 1.53        14.3 1,967    977    2.79       588  1,034      0.64         4,585
1997                 1.53        14.3 2,083  1,008    2.79       630  1,090      0.64         4,830
1998                65.37        14.3 2,206  1,040    2.79       675  1,149      0.64         5,153
1999                 1.53        14.3 2,336  1,073    2.79       723  1,211      0.64         5,362
2000                 1.53        14.3 2,486  1,110    2.79       772  1,277      0.64         5,664
2001                 1.53        14.3 2,630  1,145    2.79       827  1,346      0.64         5,967
2002              I 1.53         14.3 2,783  1,181    2.79       886  1,419      0.64         6,288
2003                65.37        14.3 2,944  1,219    2.79      949  1,496       0.64         6,691
a/  Specifically associated with the new highway under the Present alternative.
b/  Buses in the express bus lanes of th- ne-w highway are expected to have an average occlia:'cx
rate of 60 passengcrs/bus during the peak hours compared with 81 for intermunicipal buses
at present.
c/  Includes estimated walk/wait time.
Source: Mission estimates
January lggn



- 81 -
TABLE 6.6
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Base Case
(Cr$ million, mid-1979)
Rail                                        Passenger Trayel
Right-of-Way    Vehicle Operating Costs           Time Costsa-L
C bapital    Maintenance          Road                           Road
Year    I  Costs          Costs          Car       Bus      Rail        Car      Bus   Rail    TOTAL
1981          -
1982          -
1983          _
1984                      14.3           840       688      2.79        2i7      651   0.64    2,41L
1985                      14.3           906       746      2.79        241      716   0.64    2,627
1986                      14.3           972       804      2.79        265      781   0.64    2.840
1987                      14.3         1,043       867      2.79        291      852   0.64    3,071
1988                      14.3         1,119       935      2.79        320      930   0.64    3,322
1989                       14.3        1,201    1,008       2.79        352   1,014   0.64    3,593
1990                      14.3         1,289    1,079       2.79        385   1,106   0.64    3,877
1991                      14.3         1,372    1,162       2.79       420   1,228   0.64    *,200
1992                      14.3         1,460    1,251       2.79       458   1,363   0.64    4,550
1993                      14.3         1,553    1,347       2.79        499   1,513   0.64    4,930
1994                      14.3         1,652    1,451       2.79        54-   i r-79   0.64    5,3LY
1995                      14.3         1,758    1,563       2.79        593   1 .564   0.64    5,796
1996                      14.3         1,871    1,683       2.79        646  I 2,069   0.64    6,287
1997                      14.3         1,991    1,813       2.79        704   2,297   0.64    2,823
1998                      14.3         2,118    1,953       2.79        767   2,550   0.64    7,406
1999                      14.3         2,254    2,103       2.79        836   2,831   0.64    8,042
2000                      14.3         2,400    2,259       2.79       906   3,227   0.64    8,810
2001                      14.3         2,554    2,433       2.79       988   3,582   0.64    9,575
2002                      14.3         2,717    2,620       2.79    1,077   3,976   0.64   10,408
2003                      14.3         2,891    2,822       2.79    1,174   4,413   0.64   11,318
-   :nc'udes cstimated vak "'Tait t-ne
Source:  Mission estimE  s
jarliarv 1980



- 82 -
TABLE 6.7
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Road Vehicle Operating Costs
(Cr$/vehicle-km) (mid-1979)                             Speed Adjustment Factors
Vehicle           a/                b/                           Speed
Item                Car __      %     Bus         %                    km/hr      Car      Bus
Fuel               0.552       23    0.992       12                     60        1.0       -
Lubricants and                                                          50        1.01   1.024
Washing          0.222        9    0.792        9                     40        1.05   1.05
Maintenance        0.516       22    2.234        27                    30        1.14   1.15
Tires              0.054        2    0.562        7                     20        1.35   1.41
Salaries             -          -    0.556        7                     10        1.98   2.26
Depreciation       0.542       23    1.602       19
Interest           0.246       10    0.688        8
Administration    0.264        11    0.960       11
Total            2.396      100    8.386      100
a/  VW-1300 at 60 km/hr.
b/  MB-OM-362 Diesel at 55 km/hr.
Source: Dados Basicos: Manual de Custos de Opera;ao de Vehiculos do DNER - 1976, vol. 1.
Road Vehicle Speed and Traffic Relationship (2 lanes in one direction)
(PCU's in one direction/hr)
.Speed (km/hr)
Vehicl-e-----,    13    15    18    19    22    24    28    30    33    36    38
Car                                                         2,109 1,513 1,500 1,397 1,088
Bus                  2,914 2,819 2,773 2,231 2,450 1,515
Source: Project Implementation Office, First Urban Transport Project, Porto Alegre.
J,qniiarv 1.4An



TABLEt2,
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Rail Operating Costs
Cost a!       Improved Diesel         Rail Mass Transit System
Service       b/      (Proposed Project)   c/           Light Rail.
Item   \     (Cr$/train (7 cars)-km)   (Cr$/unit(4 car)train-km)    (Cr$/unit(4 car)train-iK,
Crew                  20.17                       2.86                           2.86
Energy        (diesel) 7.53                        7.78                          7.15
Lubrication            0.35                       0.18                           0.18
Train Maintenance      9.81                       5.10                           4.59
Depreciacion          16.77                      31.61                          26.87
Interest              25.48                      45.76                          38.89
Stations              57.32                      34.18                          30.76
Administration        25.74                      13.03                          13.03
Total              163.17                     140.50                         124.33
Average daily
train occupancy
(passengers)     1,166                         800                            693
Cr$/pass-km            0.14                      0.175                           0.18
a/  Concept of long-run marginal costs.
b/  Assumed to operate at the outset at full capacity during peak hours (12 trains/hr;locomo-
tive plus 7 cars/train;250 pass/car or 21,000 passengers in one direction per hour).
c/  Average applicable over project's life where traffic ranges from about 300,000
to 500,000 passengers daily.
d/  Assumed to operate at the outset at full capacity during the peak hours (17 trains/hr;
4 cars/train; 250 pass/car or 17,000 passengers in one direction).
Source: Mission estimates
January 1980



- 8-                                  TABLE 6.y
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Passenger Travel Time Costs
Monthly .nocome:                                      Cr$ (mid-1979)
Average bus and existing train passenger:           4,200
Average car passsenger:                            14,700
Average train passenger (new service):              6,193 a/
Working hours: 200 hrs/month
a/ Based on average diversion of 19% from cars and 81% from buses.
Source: METROPLAhN and GEIPOT, Porto Alegre
November 1979
Most of the empirical studies of the value of non-working travel
time savings indicate that commuters value time savings somewhere between
one-fourth and one-half of their hourly earnings. IBRD, Bank Staff Working
Paper No. 199, February, 1975. A Survey of the Theories and Empirical
Investigations of the Value of Travel Time Savings.
A figure of 25% of hourly earnings was used. Therefore:
Bus and existing train (Cr$ 4,200 : 200).25 = Cr$ 5.25/hr or Cr$ 0.087/min.
Car                    (Cr$ 14,700 : 200).25 = Cr$18.37/hr or Cr$ 0.306/min.
Train                   (Cr$ 6,193 : 200).25 = Cr$ 7.74/hr or Cr$ 0.129/min.
January 1980



- 85 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Description and Status of First Urban Transport Project
A.   Project Description
1.        The principal objectives of the project are: (a) to finance invest-
ments for improving urban transport services, with emphasis on public transport;
(b) to promote the application of appropriate urban transport policies; and,
(c) to strengthen municipal, state, and federal capacity to prepare and execute
urban transport projects.
2.        The project's components are being implemented in five cities:  Belo
Horizonte, Curitiba, Porto Alegre, Recife, and Salvador. Municipal and metro-
politan-level agencies are responsible for project execution. EBTU (Empresa
Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos) is coordinating the project at the federal
level and is channeling the Brazilian Federal Government's share of project
funds. The total project cost is US$248.9 million, of which the World Bank's
contribution is US$88 million (35%). The Brazilian federal share is US$87
million, with the balance coming from states and municipalities.
3.        Components being carried out in the five cities are as follows:
(a) Belo Horizonte: traffic engineering works to improve circulation
in the central area; a central area signal system; construction of
exclusive bus lanes in two major corridors; Traffic Operations
Programs to Increase Capacity and Safety (TOPICS) for critical
congestion points; construction of a portion of a major link in
the city transport network (Avenida Cristiano Machado); paving of
bus access roads in poor areas.
(b) Curitiba: construction of a new structural axis (Estructural/
Conectora 5); construction of eight bus terminals; paving for
bus access in poor areas.
(c) Porto Alegre: construction of exclusive bus lanes in five "pre-
corridors"; construction of an overpass to complete a major portion
of the first perimeter road; improvements to speed traffic flow on
two other major arteries; paving in poor areas.
(d) Recife: Central Area Improvements consisting of exclusive bus
facilities, bus terminals, and traffic engineering measures; TOPICS
improvements on three major radial routes; construction of missing
links in the second perimeter road; paving in poor areas; and
technical assistance and equipment to create a bus maintenance
facility.



- 86 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(e) Salvador: construction of bus lanes in six central area corridors;
construction of, or major improvements to, four large bus terminals;
TOPICS improvements at critical points; provision of traffic enforce-
ment equipment; paving and small terminals in poor areas.
4.        In addition, EBTU and the cities will receive technical assistance to
carry out the following: a project monitoring and evaluation program; studies
of bus operations and transport regulation in Recife; a study of the development
of metropolitan urban transport companies; a study of the relationships between
employment, urban poverty, and transport; and a study on the potential for
introducing urban road pricing in Brazil.
B.   Project Status
5.        Works are under way in all cities.  Construction projects are being
carried out in all cities. Recife and Salvador were slow to start executing
physical works. Recife has recently made considerable progress and Salvador
is expected to begin executing its components more efficiently in 1980.
Paving in low-income areas is well advanced in all cities, and final designs
for most other works are finished or nearing completion. Curitiba is the most
advanced of the five cities.
6.        The principal problems, so far, have been execution delays caused
by the Government change in early 1979 and by weaknesses in managerial
capacity in some cities. The situation is improving. World Bank disburse-
ments, up to the end of March 1980, totaled US$12.0 million, about 34% of
the amount programed to that date.
March 1980



- 87 -
Page i
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
EBTU's Organization, Resources and Finances
A.   Organization
1.        The Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos (EBTU) was established
by Law No. 6261 of November 14, 1975 and organized as shown on Chart 1. It
is a fully Federal Government-owned company under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Transport, but with administrative and financial autonomy,
independent juridical status, and its own assets and liabilities. The
governing body of EBTU is the Administrative Council, which is chaired by
the Minister of Transport, and includes, in addition to EBTU's President,
five members designated by the Minister of Transport. The financial execu-
tion of its policies is overseen by a Fiscal Council, and day-to-day management
is the responsibility of the Board of Managing Directors. The Administrative
Council's main responsibility is to define the steps required to formulate,
implement and execute national urban transport policies in accordance with
national transport and urban development plans. EBTU's assets, liabilities
and accounts are monitored by the Fiscal Council, whose three members are
also appointed by the Minister of Transport.
2.        The Board of Managing Directors is chaired by EBTU's President,
who is appointed to a four-year term by the President of the Republic from
a list of nominees suggested by the Minister of Transport. The Board also
includes four Directors who are appointed to a four-year term by the Minister
of Transport from a list of nominees suggested by EBTU's President. Each
director is in charge of one area, i.e., administration, finance, operations
and technical. The main activity of the Board of Directors is to promote,
at the national level, the implementation of national urban transport policies
in accordance with the general policy guidelines elaborated by its administra-
tive council in coordination with the National Urban Development Council (CNDU).
3.        EBTU's staff presently numbers about 315, evenly distributed among
the President's office and the other four Directorates; all staff are located
in Brasilia. Salaries are at the level of any other Federal Government organiza-
tion and compare well with those of the private sector.
B.   Resources
4.        Until 1980, EBTU's resources were principally derived from the Urban
Transport Development Fund (FDTU), which accounted for over 90% of EBTU's
resources. Other federal budget funds made up the balance. The FDTU funds
came from: (a) 14% of the proceeds of the vehicle registration tax, (b) a 0.5%
surtax on leisure vehicle registration and (c) 45% of the proceeds of the 12%
surtax on lubricants and liquid and gaseous fuels.



- 88 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        As of January 1, 1980, EBTU will have an additional source of
funds from the Energy Mobilization Program (PME) which was created by
Law 1691 of August 2, 1979. EBTU is expected to receive about 65% of the PME.
The PME funds will come from (a) a new surtax of 12.5% on the CIF value of
crude oil imports and from (b) 26% of the proceeds of the vehicle registration
tax. The sources of FDTU funds will also change: (a) 12% of the proceeds of
the vehicle registration tax and (b) 45% of the proceeds of the 12% surtax on
lubricants and liquid and gaseous fuel. The resources available to EBTU in the
past and in the future as forecast by the Ministry of Transport, based on these
new percentages and their forecast of total tax revenues, are shown below:
(Constant mid-1979 Cr$ billion)
Actual              Estimated
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980/1982
FDTU
Vehicle Registration Tax                1.4    2.2    2.0    1.9        11.2
Surtax on Vehicle Registration         1.1    1.6    1.5    1.5           -
Surtax on Lubricants and Liquid        2.2    3.1    3.2    4.2         12.6
and Gaseous Fuels
Other Federal Budget Funds                 -     1.2    2.2    2.1         2.5
PME                                        -      -       -      -        18.5
.7    8.1    8.9    9.7         44.8
C.   Financial Position
6.        Comparative balance sheets and income statements for the period
1976-1978 are shown in Tables 1 and 2 of this annex. For its services, EBTU
receives a 3% administrative commission. In 1978, EBTU generated surplus
administrative receipts of CR$ 37.4 million, which were distributed in the
form of financial grants to support subsidiary companies.
7.        EBTU's financial structure is generally sound.  The company does
not borrow on its own, and the administrative commission it receives is
sufficient to enable it to perform its responsibilities efficiently.
D.   Budgets
8.        EBTU prepares annual administrative and operational budgets which
must be approved by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Planning.
The operating/investment budget shows only general categories of items (e.g.,
suburban trains, metro (underground), trolly-bus, road paving, and passenger-
bus terminals). Although the present system allows EBTU to be flexible in



- 89 -
ANNEX- 2
Page 3
the allocation or reallocation of funds, the budget does not indicate in-
dividual projects. EBTU agreed during negotiations that it would employ, by
December 31, 1980, consultants, whose terms of reference would be satisfactory
to the Bank, to help "projectize" the budget.
E.   Accounts
9.        The accounting system of EBTU is very cumbersome, and the financial
statements, as well as other financial management information, are produced
after considerable delay. Consequently, the management of EBTU relies mainly
on budget data, which are updated in accordance with available cash flow
data. EBTU agreed during negotiations that it would hire, by December 31,
1980, consultants, whose terms of reference would be satisfactory to the Bank,
to streamline its accounting system.
F.   Audit
10.       EBTU's auditing arrangements are generally satisfactory.  According
to Article 42 of Decree-Law 199 of February 25, 1967, all Federal Government-
owned companies under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport are subject
to the external audit of the Financial Directorate of the Ministry of Transport.
Upon completion of this audit, the financial statements of EBTU and the audit
report of the Ministry of Transport are sent to the Federal Accounting Office
(Comptroller General of the Federal Union) for ratification. This audit is
essentially an accounts verification function which determines if the funds
disbursed and other financial transactions undertaken by EBTU are executed
in accordance with its charter.
11.       In addition, the Inspector General of Finance of the Ministry of
Finance conducts the external audit for those projects being financed with
foreign funds, which includes the Bank-financed First Urban Transport Project.
Generally, the audits performed by the Inspector General of Finance are of
high caliber. The Inspector General's audit report contains information on
the existing internal control system of the federal and local agencies in-
volved in project execution and provides, when applicable, comments for
improving the accounting system and controls.
February 1980



- 90-
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
EBTU:  Comparative Balance Sheets. December 31. 1976-1978
(Millions of current cr'zeiros)
Assets                                     1976        1977       1978       Liabilicies and Equity                    1976       1977       1978
Current Assets                                                             Current Liabilities                        7.1       14.1       32.7
Cash Bank Balances - Administrative                                        Long-Term Borrowings 1/
account                                  4.8          1.3       35.9
Cash Bank Balances - Operational                                             First Urban Transport Project
account                                197.3        336.9     180.5         IBRD Loan 1563-BR (US$88.0 million)   -               -    1,527.5
Interest Earning Funds (Bank                                                 Exchange rate adjustment on
Deposits)                              105.0         84.9         -          disbursod portion                                              1.1
307.1       423.1      216.4                                                  -1828.6
Accounts Receivable                        -          0.3        0.9       Other Liabilities
Deferred Debits                            -          1.3        1.2         Funds to be allocated for
project work in progress              197.3       336.9      270.6
Investments
Equitv
Share ownership in ocher companies
(Subsidiaries)                          21.1    1,643.5   5.519.2           Share capital                          100.0   1,630.0   1,630.0
Reserves                               39.9      180.2   4,134.8
Fixed Assets (Net)
139.9   1,810.2   5,764.8
Buildings and dwellings for staff    16.1            93.1     240.3
Other Assets 1/
Undisbursed balance - First Urban
Transport Project (Loan 1563-BR) -
(US$86.7 million)                         -           -    1,801.3
Disbursed portion - First Urban
Transport Project (Loan 1563-BR) -
(USS1.3 million)                          -           -        26.2
Exchange rate adjustment on
disbursed portion                         _            -        1.1
-           -    1,828.6
Advances-for Project Work in Progress
On account of First Urban Transport
Project - Loan 1563-BR                     -           -       90.1
Total Assets                             344.3    2,161.3   7,896.7          Total Liabilities and Equity             344.3   2,161.2   7,896.7
1/ Other assets and long-term borrowing accounts refer to in and out transactions whereby EBTU serves as a financial intermediary
for the Federal Government. The ameunt shown in the liability coluv is a Federal Government debt which is matched by funds
available to the Federal Government (IBRD Loan 1563-BR).
Source: EBTU
November 1979



- 91 -
Table 2
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
EBTUtJ   Comparative Income Statements. Years Ended December 31. 1976-1978
(Millions of current cruzeiros)
Expenses                               1976         1977        1978             Incoma                                      1976        1977        i,4'
Administrative expenses                15.4         86.3      133.9              Administrative receipts                     41.6       108.5       158.9
Financial and other general                                                      Interest on bank deposits                      -        38.4        22.5
expenses                                0.3          5.2       11.1
Monetary correction on
Grants - Financial support to                                                    investments                                    -          -       535.1
subsidiary companies           -         32.7        37.4
15.7       124.2       181.4                                                          41.6      146.9       716.5
Other Expenses:                                                                  Other Income:
Project work "Fond Perdu"    1,385.9    1,973.7   2,836.4                        Operational funds - FDTU               1,399.1   i,996.5   2,909.8
Interest and comissions
on borrowings - First Urban
Transport Project Loan
1563-BR                                -            -         5.4
Interest and commissions on
operational funds collection -
Banco do Brasil and DNER             13.2        22.8        68.0
1,399.1    1,996.5   2,909.8
Provision Fund for Income
Taxes                                   6.0          6.4         8.1
Total Expenses                      1,420.8    2,127.1   3,099.3
Net Profit                             19.9         16.3      527.0
1,440.7    2,143.4   3,626.3                                                          1,440.7   2,143.4   3,626.3
Source: EBTU
November 1979



- 92 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Assessment of the Development Master Plan for the MRPA
1.        The essential objective of the Region's Development Master Plan,
published in 1973, was to bring about a more efficient and equitable spatial
distribution of urban activities and a more efficient utilization of available
land, to be achieved primarily through the dispersal of population and employ-
ment growth to the north-south and east-west corridors. In order to serve
the existing development more effectively and provide for the projected growth
in the north-south corridor, a major increase in transport capacity was proposed.
A specific recommendation for a suburban railway was subsequently proposed in a
transport master plan for the region.
2.        In assessing the Development Master plan, several points are relevant.
First, actual metropolitan area growth has been much higher than assumed under
the Plan, largely as a result of the high level of migration, which also
implies a poorer, less skilled population structure. Second, while the Plan
assumed a significant increase in the activity rate (registered jobs/person)
from 28.38 in 1973 to 34.36 in 1985, the evidence to date suggests that this
figure is unrealistic since population continues to increase more rapidly
than employment. Moreover, the response of METROPLAN to this possibility
has been to assume the realization of the desired activity rate by advancing
the 1991 target employment projection to 1985. Third, the predicted shift in
the structure of employment from the tertiary to the secondary sector is not
being achieved. Thus, while the secondary sector is growing, it is growing
less rapidly than the tertiary sector (Table 2.3 of the report). Fourth, this
difference in the structure of employment has been accompanied by changes in
its spatial distribution, with Porto Alegre retaining a far more dominant
position than assumed by the Plan. Moreover, while population in the east-west
corridor has grown rapidly, the Plan's objective of relocating industry there
has been far less successful than anticipated. To date, only five planned
industrial districts have been established (at Gravatai, Alvarado/Viomao
Cochoerinha, Porto Alegre and Campo Bom) compared with the Plan's objective
of creating 32 industrial districts providing over 200,000 jobs.
3.        In examining the possible reasons for the differences between the
projections of the Plan and subsequent events, the following comments can be
made. The Porto Alegre Plan was primarily based on physical design principles
and had a limited economic content. Thus, while a number of alternative spatial
patterns were developed and evaluated, very little attention appears to have
been given to the implications of, for example, migration on the region's
future demographic and economic base and the consequences with regard to the
distribution of land uses.



- 93 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        These technical weaknesses in the planning process would make it
extremely difficult, if not impossible, for the adopted Master Plan to
adjust to the types of structural and spatial variances described above.
Furthermore, METROPLAN'S powers of implementation are limited. In the
current situation, the main policy instruments (e.g., zoning) are in the
hands of the individual municipalities.
5.        In the light of the foregoing, it is important to consider the
consistency of the suburban railway proposal, the original Master Plan and
subsequent events. Although the suburban railway proposal is compatible
with the primary objective of the Plan, notably the dispersal of population
and employment growth from Porto Alegre and the consolidation of growth in a
few large employment centers in the north-south corridor, it would not serve
the secondary objective of increasing the relative growth of the east-west
corridor. Of course, whether these two objectives could be achieved at the
same time is doubtful in the first place, regardless of what is done. In any
case, events subsequent to the Master Plan, particularly the increasing con-
centration of activities in the north-south corridor, have made the secondary
objective even much less likely to be achieved and have brought planners to the
realization that their attention should be focused on the north-south corridor,
thus strengthening the case for providing additional transport capacity in
that area.
November 1979



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Land Use Alternatives and Travel Demand Forecasts
A.   Land Use Alternatives
1.   Land Use 1:
(a) continuation of the present rate of migration through 1990,
resulting in an annual population growth rate of 5%;
(b) 1990-2000, annual average population growth of 4%;
(c) continuation of a constant activity rate of 27%; and
(d) the distribution of metropolitan area-wide population and
employment forecasts to 46 traffic zones on the basis of each
zone's existing share of metropolitan population and employment
growth, making no allowance for any density constraints.
2.   Land Use 2:
(a) continuation of present migration rates through 1990, resulting
in an annual population growth of 5%;
(b) 1990-2000, annual average population growth of 4%;
(c) an increase in the activity rate as assumed under the Master
Plan; and
(d) the distribution of population and employment to 46 traffic
zones, assuming the achievement of the Master Plan's objectives
in the east-west corridor and those of the individual municipal
master plans in all other municipalities.
3.   Land Use 3:
(a) continuation of present migration rates only through 1985,
resulting in an annual population growth of 5%,
(b) 1985-1990, annual average population growth of 4%;
(c) 1990-2000, annual average population growth of 3%;
(d) the continuation of a constant activity rate of 27%; and



- 95 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(e) the distribution of the metropolitan area-wide population and
employment forecasts to 46 traffic zones on the basis of each
zone's axisting share of metropolitan area population and
employment growth, subject to that growth being capable of
accommodation under maximum density assumptions. Growth that
cannot be accommodated is reallocated to the next most rapidly
growing zone.
4.   Land Use 4:
this alternative is identical to land use 3, subject to the intro-
duction of commercial centers along the suburban railway line at
Canoas and Sao Leopoldo. These centers were introduced by assuming
the redistribution of an equivalent amount of tertiary employment
from Porto Alegre's CBD to each center.
5.        On the basis of recent trends in the growth and spatial distribution
of population and employment, it was concluded that land uses 3 and 4 were
most representative of the future evolution of the metropolitan area. Con-
sequently, land use 3 was adopted as the population and employment base for
travel demand forecasts to be applied to all the project alternatives
examined (Chapter IV) other than for the suburban railway (proposed project)
and the light rail alternative. In these two latter cases, land use 4, in-
corporating the development of commercial centers along the line, was adopted.
Tables 1 and 2 of this annex illustrate the distribution of population and
employment associated with land use 3 for the forecast years of 1985, 1990 and
2000. Table 3 of this annex summarizes the amount of tertiary employment
redistributed from the Porto Alegre CBD to each of the three commercial centers
in each of the forecast years under land use 4.
B.   Trip Generation
6.        Total daily person trip rates for bus and car were projected forward
from the 1974 survey base to 1985, 1990 and 2000 respectively. This was done
for each of the 46 metropolitan area traffic zones. A series of regressions
was run for person trip generation rates against socio-economic variables
which included population density, employment and income changes. This
analysis produced statistically insignificant and high autocorrelated results.
Therefore, instead, total daily bus and car person trips were forecast forward
by applying the 1974 trip rates to the 1985, 1990 and 2000 zonal population
projections. The implication of this is two-fold: first, total demand is
probably understated by failing to take account of increased trip-making as
a result of increasing income levels, particularly with respect to automobile
trips; and second, while the proportion of car to bus trips is held constant
over time, the evidence suggests that car trips are increasing more rapidly.
Both assumptions are consistent with the cautious approach adopted in estimating
the demand for the train.
C.   Trip Distribution
7.        The resulting trip generation forecasts under the two alternative land
uses were then distributed to destination zones on the following basis. For each



- 96 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
origin zone, the growth in total, bus and car person trip made over each
forecast period was distributed to each of the 46 destination zones as a
function of the proportion of the total metropolitan area employment growth
experienced by that zone over the same period. The resulting 46 x 46 trip
growth matrix was then added to the base year trip matrix to produce a
total daily person, bus and car trip matrix for each forecast year and for
land uses 3 and 4.
D.   Modal Distribution
8.        The demand for the suburban railway project was assessed under
land use 4. First, all zonal pairs in the 46 x 46 matrix outside the area
of influence of the suburban railway were eliminated. This included all
intramunicipal zonal pairs (those relatively short trips were assumed to
continue to be made by bus and car) and all those zonal pairs which do not
involve essentially north-south trips. The remaining zonal pairs were
considered to constitute a physically possible area of influence for the
suburban train without yet taking account of probable modal choice behavior.
From this physical area of influence were substracted all those zonal pairs
for which it would be physically impossible to go by train without phase II
(Sapacuia-Novo Hamburgo) of the railway project. The result is two matrices
representing the physically possible area of influence of the suburban rail-
way under phase I and phase II, respectively.
9.        The phase I matrix was analyzed in detail regarding the question
of modal choice. To do this, the travel time characteristics by different
modes between zones were analyzed. The model used in this analysis related
train trips as the dependent variable to the ratio of travel time in the
north-south corridor (the railway or BR-116) to total travel time as the
independent variable. This model was calibrated based on the experience
of Bank consultants in other countries. The result of this zonal analysis
is that, by 1985, approximately 10% of all intermunicipal car users in the
corridor area of influence are forecast to divert to the railway, increasing
to about 25% by 1990 and remaining constant at that percentage until 2000.
The corresponding figure for intermunicipal bus diversion for the three
forecast years was forecast to be about 50%.
10.       The 46 x 46 train trip matrix was then collapsed into a 14 x 14
station matrix in phase I. Finally, the trips diverted to the train were
deducted from the original 46 x 46 bus and car trip matrix to provide the
bus and car travel demand forecast at 1985, 1990 and 2000, assuming the
implementation of the suburban rail project.
November 1979



- 97 -
3BJZIL
ANNEX 4
SECOND IUAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                                   Table I
Land Use 3
Population by Zone
Municipalities         Zeona/Year          1974               1980               1985               1990                 2000
Guarba                       1              43.740              64.246              88.011            110.000              172.000
2               81.950             102.860            123.652            140.000              178.000
3             S85.920             72Z.586            852.668            953.000             1.186.000
4               72.270              80.791            87.318              88.000               89.000
S             153.290              189.267           223.667             251.000              312.000
6              24.000              35.568             47.663             60.000               90.000
7               S.160               6.110              7.032              8.000                9.000
8               88.360             98.525            106.070            107.000               108.000
9               4.760               5.714               6.642              7.000                8.000
Porto Alegre                              1.015.710           1.241.421          1.454.322          1.614.000            1.980.000
Vianio                      10              96.150              160.320            238.066            330.000              466.000
Alvorada                    11          -   66.340              123.748            195.162            282.000              410.000
Cachoeirinha                12              46.370               79.633           120.321            169.000              287.000
Gravawai                   13                71.570             111.685           159.392            214.000               342.000
14              68.480              84.069             99.124            110.000               124.000
1S               4.830               7.350             10.253             13.000               20.000
16              24.500              31.209             38.096             44.000               52.000
17                 990               1.308              1.600              1.900                2.000
18              30.180              42.787             57.286             73.000              104.000
19               7.200              14.396             23.422             35.000               62.000
20              35.900              48.022             61.236             74.000               99.000
21               5.960                7.900             10.000            13.000               18.000
22               9.900               13.993            18.530             23.000               34.000
23                 140               3.271               7.431            13.100               28.000
Caincos                                    188.080             254.305            326.978            400.000              543.000
24                  20                  28                 40                 so                  100
25              26.380              33.474             40.709             46.400               54.100
26              13.070              16;301             19.SdO             21.450                24.6d0
27                 920                 997              1.034              1.100                1.200
Esteio                                      40.390              50.800             61.283             69.000               80.000
28               4.100               4.198              5.594              6.700                 7.000
29              28.790              46.660             68.243             94.000              108.000
so              20.300              31.139             43.382             56.000               60.000
31               S.SOO              12.690             20.759             31.300               45.000
Sapucaia do Sul                             58.690              94.687            137.978            188.000              220.000
32               3.090               3.168              3.328              3.400                3.500
33               2.320               2.376              2.435              2.500                2.600
34              44.810              53.142             60.313             64.100               72.900
35               4.660               7.303             10.066             13.000               17.000
36              10.960              11.834             12.339             12.000               13.000
37               7.070               9.282             11.364             13.000               16.000
Sio lcspoldo                                 72.910             87.105             99.845            108.000              125.000
38               4.980               6.737               7.000              8.000               11.000
39              14.840              20.932             28.480             37.000               53.500
40                 130                  172               214                300                  400
41               9.320              13.144             17.291             22.500               31.000
42              73.260              99.310            128.743             156.000             212.000
43               2.430               2.823              3.560              4.200                5.100
Novo Hanburgo                              104.960             143.118            185.288            228.000              313.000
8st.7cia Velha             44               11.890              18.108             25.434             34.000               52.000
Mnpo 30m                   45               23.320              37.544             54.640             74.000              1'0.000
Sapiranga                  46               23.380              38.280             56.280             73.000              128.000
MRPA                                     1.863.SOO           2.505.000          3.203.000          3.S98.000            5.23S.000
Source: METROPLAN
Januarv 1980



*                              - 98 -                                                          AggX-98
tRAZfl
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Land Us* 3
Emloyment by zone
1985                                   1990                                  2000
SECONDARY     TERTIARY      T=tAL      SECONDARY    TERTIARY       TOTAL      SECONDARY   TERTIARY       TOTAL
Oal!ba                            1          19 900        8 000       27 900       28 100       10 800       38 900       S1 900      18 000       69 900
2          2 300        7 900       10 200        3 soo       11 200       14 700         4 100      19 200       23 300
3         36 300      173 100      209 400       35 600      210 S00      246 100        38 700    276 000       314 700
4         30 soo      229 800      260 300       21 000      262 000      283 000        12 500    304 300       316 SOO
5         22 700       37 200       s9 900        23 900      52 700        76 600       26 200      81 500      107 700
6           1 soo       3 400         4 900       2 300         S 200        7 soo        4 700       9Soo        14 200
7               -         soo          soo             -          600          600            -         800          S00
8         28 700       47 700       76 400       32 300       61 7o0        94 000       34 900      90 700      125 600
9          5 soo        2 Soo        8 000       14 800         2 700       17 500       21 200       3000        24 200
Porto Alegse                                127 500      502 100      629 600      133 400      606 600      740 000      142 300    785 000       927 300
Viamio                           10             300        9 700       10 000          400       14 600       1S000            800     22 000       22 So
Alvorada                         11           1 200        6 000        7 200        1 900        9 400       11 300        3 900      1S 000       18 900
Cachoeirinha                     12           7 700        6 100       13 800       10 soo        9 400       19 900       is soo      17 000       32 soo
Gravatai                         13           8 900        7 700       16 600       12 700       11 300       24 000       2s 600      20 000       45 600
14          s800         3 300        9 100        6 800        4 soo        11 300        8 200       6700        14 900
1s          1 900        1 700        3 600        2 Soo        1 800        4 300         3 700       2000         5700
16          2 soo        1 300        3 800        3 200        2000         5 200         4 800       3400         8200
17               -          200          200            -          200          200            -         200          200
is          1 300        6 200        7 500        1 400         8 800      10 200         1 700      13 600       15 300
19          1 400           Soo       1 900        2 000           800        2 800        2 300       2000         4300
20          1 00         3 100        4 900        1 800        5000         6 800         1 700       7700         9400
21         11 300        s 800       17 100       14 300        6 200       20 500        27 800      6800         34 600
22         10 600         1 200      11 80O       13 000        1 700       14 700        22 300       3 000       ZS 300
---=                             23.-  - -.: l oaU  7-  : . :1000     "I 200       :4               300:  - - .-.3...- . 4 '&00  I1-7fa  -6066      12 300
37 600       23 soo       61 100       ;5 300       31 :0^       0^6^0        ^: '00      46 000      13C 20C
24               -            -            -                                      I            -           -
25          Z 300         4 300        6 600        2 8O         5s200        8 000        3 900       6600        10 soo
26          3 700        2  o00       6 soo        4 300        3 400        7 700        s 600       4200         9Soo
27            400             -          400       1000              -       1 000         1 300         200        1SOO
Esteio                                        6 400        7100        13 soo        8100         8 600       16 700       10 800      11 000       21 8oo
28         11 300           400      11 700       12 200           soo      12 700       1S 800          600       16 400
29          1 200        3 600        4 800        1 600        5 400        7 000        2 300        7000         9300
30             200       1 900        2 100           300       2 800        3 100           400       3400         3800
31               -          500          500          100          700          800          100      1 000         1 100
Sapucaa do Sul                               1Z 700        6 400       19 100       14 200        9 400       23 600       18 600      12 000       30 600
32             600          100          700          600          100          700          700         200          900
33             600          200          Soo          600          200          8o0          700         300        1 000
34           8S500      12 soo       21 000        8 800       13 900       22 700         8 800     17 200       26 000
35          1 S00           400       2 200        2 300           soo        2 800        3 500      1000         4500
36             900          900       1 800        1 100         1 000       2 100         1 soo       1100        2600
37           1 900       3100         SOO a        2 200         3 300        5 soo       2 500       4200         6700
SSo Leopoldo                                 14 300       17 200       31 soo       1S 600       19 0OO       34 600       17 700      24 000       41 700
38             200       3 000        3 200           300       4 100        4 400           soo      6100         6C6AO
39          5 800        1 600        7 400        6 800        2 300        9 100        9 700       4400         14 100
40             800          100          900       1 200           100        1 300       4 000          200       4200
41          3 300          900        4 100        3 800        1 400        s200           0soo      2400          7900
42         28 509       16 400       44 900       30 000       21 soo       Si 5oo       32 000      30 600       62 600
43             300          100          400          400          200          600          900         300       1 200
Novo Hariourgo                               38  0OO      22 100       60 900       42 500       29 600       72 100       52 600      44 000       96 600
Sstancia Vclha                   44           6 200        2 100        8 300        8 400        3 000       11 400       14 500       5 000       19 soo
Canpo Ban                        4S          13 700        3 200       16 900       1s 300        4 800       20100        19 100       9000        28100
Sapiranga                        46          12 600        4 300       16 900       1S 300        6 500       21 800       22 soo      12 000       34 500
MRIA                                        307 8O       625 soo      933 300      355 700      774 300   1 130 000       480 000  1 040 000   15S20000
Source:  ETROPLAN
January 1980



99 -
ANMF X 
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Land Use 4
Tertiary Employment Distributed from Porto Alegre, CBD to
the Commercial Centers
Commercial Year
Center                    1985         1990         2000
Canoas                     5,000       10,000       30,000
Sao Leopoldo                 -          5,000       15,000
Novo Hamburgo a!              -         8,000       30,000
Total by Year              5,000       23,000       75,000
a/ Based on the assumption that line is extended to Novo Hamburgo
in Phase II.
Source:  METROPLAN
November 1979



-100 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Urban Transport Sector
Al.       Plano Nacional de Transportes:  Diagnostico and Prognostico,
GEIPOT, 1978.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to MRPA and the Project
Bl.       Regiao Metropolitana de Porto Alegre, Plano de Desenvolvimento
Metropolitana, 1973.
B2.       Estudo de Transporte Coletivo da Regiao Metropolitana de Porto
Alegre, GEIPOT, 1976.
B3.       Plano Diretor de Transportes Urbanos da Regiao Metropolitana de
Porto Alegre, GEIPOT, 1976.
B4.       Estudo de Tren Suburbano da Regiao Metropolitana de Porto Alegre.
TRENSURB-P.A., GEIPOT, 1976.
B5.       Transportes Urbanos, projeto EBTU-BIRD, Porto Alegre-1978.
B6.       Porto Alegre Suburban Rail Project, Nathaniel Lichfield and
Partners, September 1979.
B7.       Computer Printout File on Passenger Trip Matrices.
B8.       Human Resources Special Report, Annex I - Population, Brazil Country
Programs Division, November, 1978.
C.   Working Papers
Cl.       Detailed Staffing Analysis of PAMRAIL.
C2.       Capital Cost Estimates for Project Alternatives in Economic Analysis.
January 1980



_ 101 -
CUAAT i
BRAZIL                    _
SECOND URBMA TSRANSYORT PROJECT
Emprosa Brasileira dos Transportes (EBTU)
Organization Chart
Secretariat   I nis trativ            unci
Public
Relations 
G1      3                                                                         1  L Office
President and Board              General
of Maniaging Directors          Coordination               Processing
3                                       | Adainis~~~~~~~~~       ~~trative ||Assistants|
Sertary    |        _Control and
Evaluation
Directorates
sta                        Finac  and Budget                  Operaton                 |       s ctLia
IOrgarLizati°L a    Asitan                                                                           t          A"  ASstants|>Ats t 
Iand Noh 
Departments
] Peronne  t  |AdhLinistration ||innc         || ibreet |oWrkiL  nstuo      [ndPr o:amL 
I i | t t and Butget 1 0 | f P RelJLtions | | ~~~~~~~Evalualtionl Yi 
Sourcee EBTU
November 1979






fh,o map nas lenPrep,ar b, tntT   oPea,axa  oS,                     -                                   SANTA
the nce ,eflC    fthe-red-a   f
Th, d__f,t,e,n  odadte       .                                                       
,t the-er sd the                                                                   AV                            OUTH
heodoreoSOec c ths cap   '~ '"NOVO HAMBADRGO-km42 A7
Ware -ekad .fcafntSaNOVO                                                       .F ~ -~AMERICA
accefat,'fecfnfff hondesas  /FENAC - km 40.7*-.                                                                            B Ai
7o55.13c, Ca!                                          :'      ~~~~~~~~~~RIO GRANDE  '                      -            Brcsilid
INDUSTRIAL -km 39.7                        DO SUL
LIBERDADE -km~                              '~ 38 .4oD. 5-                                                    N
/  ..~~~              (1K'-a-t.'-~~~~~ ~~      URU~G              .        N                                        6000 1255
~~0  ff0  200 ~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
Rl1,00 SINOS - km 35.8
~S40LEOPOLDO                 SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
kml 315
s1A_O
LEOPOLDO                     ~~~~Porto Alegre Metropolitan Area
t~UNISINOS - km 31.6                      -~--- Passenger Railway Line - Phase One
-~.   Passenger Railway Line -Phase Two
'------Freight Railway Line
-   . -  -  . -.   . -  .            -+--- -'i- ~Freight Railway Line -Estimated Completion June 1980
-"    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~  ~~            Railwaiy Station - Phase One
Railway Station - Phase Two
I,                                     I    /              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Train Depot and Admrinistration Building
SAPUCAIA - km 26.7                                 Port
/ ~~~~~~~ADOSLRivers
APUCAIA  DO  ~~~~~~LJL            -       ~~National Roadls                Built-up Areas
/   ZPASTEA)t-ksm24.7                                          State Roads         -'          Municipal Boundaries
tIi<c~         ETEIO/                      -'       
BR- 386         ~~~MATNtAsVELHO -km 16.2                                                                                    AOao'  (
N             ~~~~~CANOA.S                                                                        Si,o PD-oio       SAPIFIANGA
M1ar,o                                        CANOAS -km 14.8
FATIMA -km 12.1
N fTF:ROf ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    EmOOO 
~~$DOV1ARIA CEkm 0.m9                                                             A(AIG  VT
~~~  .'>  MERCADOkmO~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .
____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___  ___  ____   ___      ~     [0 T~~~                             -l   .~   kmOM6EF1



