- .    LOAN NUMBER 1839 BR
Loan Agreement
(Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre - Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1839 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            -                , 1980, between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF B#ZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in t4e financing the cost of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out, as hereinafter and in
the Project Agreement (as this term is defined in Section 1.02 of
this Agreement) provided, by the State of Rio Grande do Sul
(hereinafter called the State), Empresa de Trens Urbanos de Porto
Alegre (hereinafter called TRENSURB), Fundaao Metropolitana
de Planejamento - METROPLAN (hereinafter called METROPLAN), Rede
Ferroviaria Federal S.Ao - RFFSA (hereinafter called RFFSA),
Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes (hereinafter
called GEIPOT), and Emeresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
(hereinafter called EBTU) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower, through EBTU, will
make the proceeds of the Loan available to TRENSURB as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the State,
TRENSURB, METROPLAN, RFFSA, GEIPOT and EBTU;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the State, TRENSURB, METROPLAN, RFFSA, GEIPOT and EBTU of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "EBTU" means Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
- EBTU, an empresa p6blica under the supervision of the Borrower's
Ministry of Transport, authorized by Lei No. 6.261 of November 14,
1975 and established by Decreto No. 77.406 of April 12, 1976, both
of the Borrower;
(c) "GEIPOT" means Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de
Transportes, an empresa p6blica under the supervision of the
Borrower's Ministry of Transport, established by Lei No. 5.908
of August 20, 1973, of the Borrower;
(d) "METROPLAN" means Fundago Metropolitana de Plane-
jamento - METROPLAN, a foundation under the supervision of the
Secretariat of the Interior, Development and Public Works of the
State of Rio Grande do Sul, established by Lei No. 6.748 of
October 29, 1974, of the State of Rio Grande do Sul;
(e) "RFFSA" means Rede Ferrovidria Federal S.A., a corpora-
tion, established by Lei No. 3115 of March 16, 1957, of the
Borrower;
(f) "TRENSURB" means Empresa de Trens Urbanos de Porto
Alegre authorized by Decreto No. 84.640 of April 17, 1980 of
the Borrower and established by resolution of the general meeting
of its shareholders on April 25, 1980;
(g)  "NEP" means Nucleo Executivo de Projecto, the office
within TRENSURB to be established pursuant to Section 3.01 of the
Project Agreement for the purpose of carrying out the initial
execution of the Project;
(h) "Convenio" means the agreement to be entered into
between EBTU (on behalf of the Borrower) and TRENSURB pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Convenio;


﻿- 3 -
(i) "Metropolitan Region of Porto Alegre" means that area
consisting of about 5,718 km2 and comprising the following
fourteen municipalities: Alvorada; Cachoeirinha; Campo Bom;
Canoas;  Estancia Velha; Esteio; Gravatai; Guaiba; Novo Hamburgo;
Porto Alegre; Sgo Leopoldo; Sapiranga; Sapucaia do Sul; and
Viam9o; and
(j) "commencement of TRENSURB's operations" means the date
on which TRENSURB's passenger train service begins.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred and fifty-nine million dollars ($159,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank may establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower sliall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.


﻿Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The President of EBTU and any other person
authorized in writing by him is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01i (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall enable all parties to the Project Agreement,
with the exception of the Bank, to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all their obligations therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable such parties to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) make the proceeds of the Loan
available to EBTU as agent for the Borrower for purposes of the
Project; and (ii) cause EBTU to relend the equivalent of such
proceeds in the currency of the Borrower to TRENSURB under a
Convenio to be entered into between EBTU (on behalf of the
Borrower) and TRENSURB under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank; the Convenio shall provide,
inter alia, that the amount so relent pursuant to clause (ii) of
this paragraph shall be repaid over a period of twelve years after
the expiry of three years from the commencement of TRENSURB' s
operations and shall bear interest at the rate of 5.0% per annum
on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time and that, for purposes of repayment, the value of the cur-
rency borrowed shall be subject to monetary correction in accor-
dance with changes in the Borrower's National Treasury Bond
Index.


﻿- 5 -
(c) The Borrower shall cause EBTU to exercise its rights
under the Convenio in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause EBTU not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Convenio or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the Municipality
of Porto Alegre to carry out Part D (1) of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and effi-
ciency and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special secuv ty from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such aember. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Baick shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in,creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply: (i) to any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) to any lien arising in the ordinary course


﻿- 6 -
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that no construction
of any new highway between Porto Alegre and Scharlau is begun
before a feasibility study, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding
such construction is completed and reviewed by the Borrower and
the Bank.
Section 4.03. On the basis of a review to be undertaken not
less than once every six months, as and from the commencement of
TRENSURB's operations or whenever tariffs of passenger services
competitive with those of TRENSURB are adjusted, if adjusted more
frequently, the Borrower shall authorize such adjustments in
TRENSURB's tariffs so as to permit TRENSURB to cover at least all
of its operating expenses as defined in Section 3.09 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. Not less than once per year, the Borrower,
through EBTU, shall inform the Bank of its National Urban
Transport Investment Plan.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) EBTU or TRENSURB shall have failed to perform any of its
covenants, agreements or obligations under the Project Agreement
or Convenio; or
(b) an event shall have occurred or any action shall have
been taken which will materially and adversely affect the ability


﻿-7-
of EBTU or of TRENSURB to carry out its covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement or Convenio;
or
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EBTU, TRENSURB, METROPLAN, RFFSA or GEIPOT or for the
suspension of its operations without having made adequate alter-
native arrangements for the carrying out of the Project; or
(d) any party to the Project Agreement, with the exception
of the Bank, EBTU and TRENSURB, shall have failed to perform any
covenant, agreement or obligation of such party under the Project
Agreement, unless any of the other parties concerned shall have
remedied the default; or
(e) an event shall have occurred or any action shall have
been taken which will materially and adversely affect the ability
of any of the parties to the Project Agreement, with the exception
of the Bank, EBTU and TRENSURB to carry out its covenants, agree-
ments and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty -days aftIr notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower, the State, METROPLAN, RFFSA,
GEIPOT and EBTU; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and
(e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of
each of the parties thereto;


﻿-8-
(b) the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the
Banco Central do Brasil;
(c) NEP has been established and staffed in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.01 of the Project Agreement;
and
(d')  the Convenio has been executed on behalf of the parties
thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as .dditional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil;
(b) that, with the exception of the Bank, the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the
parties thereto, and is legally binding upon such parties in
accordance with its terms;
(c) that the Convenio has been duly authorized or ratified
by the parties thereto, and is legally binding upon such parties
in accordance with its terms; and
(d) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or
agencies, any agency of any such volitical subdivision, or other-
wise to be performed cr given in order to authorize the carrying
out of the Project and to enable the Borrower, the State, TREN-
SURB, METROPLAN, RFFSA, GEIPOT and EBTU to perform all of their
respective obligations in this Agreement and the Project Agreement
and the Convenio contained (including the obligations thereof
relating to procurement of goods and civil works for the Project)
together with all necessary powers and rights in connection
therewith, have been duly rnd validly performed or given and that
no other such acts, consents or approvals are required in order to
authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the
Borrower, the State, TRENSURB, METROPLAN, RFFSA, GEIPOT and EBTU
to perform all of their respective obligations in this Agreement
and the Project Agreement and the Convenio contained.
Section 6.03. The date       gV4    /9fv, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco 5
70000 Brasilia D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                            0611142 MFAZ BR
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 10 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)  to be financed
(1) Track superstructure           9,340,000   )   100% of for-
)   eign expendi-
)   tures for
(2) Unit trains and related        89,370,000  )   imported
spare parts                                )  goods and 100%
)   of ex-factory
(3) Signaling and                  14,190,000  )   costs for
electri:fication                           )  locally pro-
)   duced goods
(4) Maintenance equipment           2,220,000  )
(5) Consultants'services            1,710,000      60%
and technical assis-
tance
(6) Unallocated                    42,170,000
TOTAL         159,000,000
2.   For the purpose of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,


﻿- 12 -
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's. reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to provide an institutionally
sound and economically and financially viable suburban passenger
rail mass transit system for the Metropolitan Region of Porto
Alegre. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Permanent Way Works
(1) Laying of two broad gauge (1.6 m) railway tracks and all
related materials between the central market of Porto Alegre and
the Municipality of Sapucaia (about 26.7 km), including construc-
tion and placement of related fencing, signals, telecommunications
and two power substations and catenary.
(2) Construction and equipping of fourteen passenger
stations, including an underground tunnel connection between the
airport passenger station and the Porto Alegre Airport Terminal.
(3) Construction of a total of about sixteen pedestrian
underpasses or overpasses, about ten road vehicle bridges and
about six railway brilges.
(4) Construction and equipping of a unit train mainte-
nance depot and an administration building.
(5) Construction of satellite automobile parking lots near
several passenger stations with a total capacity of about 13,500
automobile parking spaces.
Part B:   Unit Trains
Acquisition and utilization of about 25 electric unit trains
(and related spare parts), each train consisting of two motorized
coaches and two non-motorized coaches (each such coach being
approximately 22 m in length, 2.9 m in width and 3.9 m in
height).
Part C:   Land Expropriation
(1) Expropriation of about 339,000 m2 of land for the
construction under Part A (5), for the construction of some
underpasses and overpasses under Part A (3) and for the construc-
tion of the power substations under Part A (1).


﻿- 14 -
(2) Expropriation of the land required for the future
provision of about 9,000 automobile parking spaces at satellite
automobile parking lots in addition to those under Part A (5).
(3) Expropriation of about 63,000 m2 of land for the
future continuation of the rail system to Novo Hamburgo.
Part D:   Parking Restriction Program
(1) A program to eliminate all commuter related day-term
street and open-lot automobile parking in the central business
district and within the first ring road of Porto Alegre within
three months of the commencement of TRENSURB's operations and to
prevent the construction of new automobile parking garages in
such area in accordance with the urban transport plan of the
Municipality of Porto Alegre.
(2) A program to enforce Part D (1).
Part E:   Studies and programs
(1) An assessment of the appropriate measures to be taken
by TRENSURB with -respect to its staffing, the training of its per-
sonnel (before and after the commencement of TRENSURB's opera-
tions), its organizational structure, management, method of
accounting, finances and operations and the implementation of such
measures.
(2) The preparation of a detailed program aimed at res-
tricting the use of automobiles in the Metropolitan Region of
Porto Alegre and the monitoring of such program's implementation
and the identification of the locations and sizes of the satellite
automobile parking lots under Part A (5) of the Project.
(3) The identification of bus routes to be discontinued and
bus routes to serve as feeder links. to TRENSURB's railway line,
and recommendatiors regarding bus companies adversely affected.
(4) The identification of appropriate commercial development
at various locations along or near TRENSURB's railway line and
recommendations regarding the planning and organizational condi-
tions necessary or appropriate for such development; and the up-
dating and revision of METROPLAN's land use master plan.


﻿- 15 -
(5) The carrying out of an economic and financial feasibi-
lity study of the possible extension of the Project train system
from Sapucaia to Novo Hamburgo and, in the event that such extension
is justified on the basis of such study, decisions as to: (a)
appropriate changes in TRENSURB's operations, including staffing,
management, accounts and tariffs as well as appropriate changes in
bus routes; and (b) the financing plan for the required increase
in capital investment.
(6) The preparation of a study of the levels and structure
of all transport tariffs in the Metropolitan Region of Porto
Alegre, including charges for satellite and other automobile
parking and recommendations on how such tariffs should be set.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1983
through   May 15, 1995                      6,625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
bafore mat ,rity                            7.15%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       , 198 0
FOR SECRETARY


