FILE COPY
Report No. 1426-MOR
Morocco: Appraisal of the
CIOR Cement Project
March 4, 1977
Industrial Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Except where otherwise noted all figures are quoted
in Moroccan Dirhams (DH)
US$ 1       =      DH  4.50
DH 1               US$0.22
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
All weights and measures are in metric units.
1 metric ton (ton)                =      1,000 kilograms (kg).
1 metric ton (ton)                =      2,205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)                  =      0.62 miles
1 meter (m)                       =      39.3 inches
I hectare (ha)  3                        2.37 acres
I cubic meter (m  )               =      35.31 cubic feet
1 kilo calorie (kcal)             =      3.9685 BTU
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Arab Fund              Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
APCM               -  Associated Portland Cement Manufacturers Limited
ASMAR             =   Cimenterie de Marrakech
ASMENT             =   Cimenterie de Temara
BEPI              =   Bureau d'Etudes et de Participations Industrielles
CIMA              =   Cimenterie Maghrebine
CIOR              =   Cimenterie de l'Oriental
ODI                =   Office pour le Developpement Industriel
ONCF               =   Office National des Chemins de Fer
ONE               =   Office National de l'Electricite
ONT                =   Office National des Transports
SAMIR             -   Societe Anonyme Marocaine de l'Industrie du Raffinage
SC IF             =   Societe Cherifienne de Materiel Industriel et Ferroviaire
SCP               =   Societe Cherifienne des Petroles
SNMC (A)          =   Societe Nationale des Materiaux de Construction
(Algerian Shareholder of CIMA)
SNMC              =   Societe Nationale des Materiaux de Construction
(Maroccan Public Corporation)
SORESMA           =   Societe pour la Promotion des Echanges Commerciaux
tkm               =   ton-kilometer
tpy               -   Metric Ton per Year
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF THE CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                                        i- v
I.    ItNTRODUCTION                                                               1
II.    THE COMPAN4Y AND ITS SPONSOR                                                1
A.    Background ..........................................                 1
B.    CIOR - Organization and Management ....              ..............   4
C.    ODI - The Shareholder ...............................                 5
III.    CEMENT MARKET, PRICING AND DISTRIBUTION                                     6
A.    The Cement Market in Morocco ..... ...........                        6
1.   Historic Supply/Consumption in Ilorocco .... .....               6
2.    Projected Demand/Supply in Morocco ....            .........    7
3.    The Market for CTOR Cement in Morocco ....           ......     9
B.    Cement Distribution and Pricing in Morocco ..........    10
1.   Existing Distribution System ....              ...............    10
2.    Transport and Distribution of CIOR Production ..               11
C.    Pricing       .......................    ......................      12
IV.    THE PROJECT                                                                14
A.    Scope of the Project ..............       ..      ................   14
B.    Raw Material Availability and Analysis ..............    15
C.    Technical Description ..............       ..     ...............    15
1.    Production Facilities  ..........................    15
2.    Utilities and Infrastructure  ....            ...............    16
D.    Ecology       .......................    ......................      16
E.    Manpower and Training .............       ..     ................    16
F.    Project Execution and Technical Assistance ..........    17
G.    Project Timing ...................           ...................     17
This report was prepared by Miss Haug and Messrs. Duvivier and Cognet of the
Industrial Projects Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization..



Page No.
V.   CAPITAL COST AND FINANlCING PLAN                                         18
A.  Capital Cost              .................   18
B.   Working Capital Requirements .......... .. ...........             19
C.    Financing Plan and Guarantees ......... .. ...........            20
D.   Procurement ....................          ....................     21
E.   Allocation of Bank Loan and Disbursement ...........               22
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                       22
A.   Operating Costs ..................           ..................    22
B. Revenues                ............  23
C.   Financial Projections .......................                      ........  23
D.   Break-Even Analysis ..............      ..     ................    25
E.   Accounting and Auditing Requirements ..............         .      25
F.   Financial Rate of Return ............       ..    .............    25
G.   Major Risks ....................          ....................     26
VII.    ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                                  26
A.   Economic Rate of Return ............       ..    ..............    26
B.   Linkages and Employment ............       ..    ..............    27
C.    Foreign Exchange Effects ............      ..    .............    28
D.   Regional Development Impact .......... ..          ............    28
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONN7ENDATIONS ....             ..............  29
MAP
IBRD 12528       - Location of Existing and Future Cement Plants
in Morocco



ANNEXES
1      Technical Terms and Process Description
2-1    CIMA - Organization, Financial Position and Present Legal Status
2-2    CIOR - Organization and Management
2-3    CIOR - Organization Chart
2-4    ODI - Organization, Program and Financial Position
3-1    The Market for Cement in Morocco
3-2    Cement Distribution and Pricing in Morocco
3-3    Distribution and Transport of CIOR Production
4-1    Raw Material Availability and Analysis
4-2    Detailed Project Description
4-3    Plant Layout
4-4    Process Flow Chart
4-5    Utilities and Infrastructure
4-6    Ecology
4-7    Labor Force, Training and Technical Assistance
4-8    Project Implementation Schedule
5-1    Detailed Capital Cost Estimates and Procurement
5-2    Working Capital Requirements
5-3    Bank-Financed Items
5-4    Schedule of Disbursement
6-1    Production and Operating Cost Projections
6-2    Distribution Cost Projections
6-3    Notes to Financial Projections
6-4    Income Statement Projections
6-5    Source and Application of Funds Projections
6-6    Balance Sheet Projections
6-7    Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
6-8    Break-Even Point Analysis
7-1    Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
7-2    Foreign Exchange Effect
7-3    Economic Development of the Oriental Region






MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF THE CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a proposed Bank loan of US$45 million equiva-
lent to help finance a cement project to be owned and operated by Cimenterie
de I'Oriental (CIOR) and to be located in Northeastern Morocco (Oriental
Region) near Oujda about 45 km west of the Algerian border. The plant will
have a nominal capacity of 1.2 million tons per year (tpy) of Ordinary Port-
land cement. CIOR is a societe anonyme under Moroccan law, wholly owned by
the Office pour le Developpement Industriel (ODI), a Moroccan Government
Agency. CIOR was established in 1976 to continue implementation of an iden-
tical cement plant which was started by Cimenterie Maghrebine (CIMA), a
Moroccan-Algerian joint venture but was discontinued by the partners.
Apart from the cement plant proper, the project includes: (i) related
infrastructure such as power connections, rail link and housing; (ii) dis-
tribution facilities; and (iii) consulting services to strengthen CIOR's
distribution function and financial management. The project is expected to
commence operations in late 1978.
ii.       The project started in 1972 following an Intergovernmental Agree-
ment between Morocco and Algeria, establishing CIMA with shares owned in
equal parts by ODI of Morocco and the Societe Nationale des Materiaux de
Construction (SNMC (A)), the Algerian State enterprise for building materi-
als. Both shareholders were committed to each purchase half of CIMA's
production and the project was therefore designed to meet the combined
prospective cement demand in the adjacent border regions of both countries.
The project was appraised by the Bank in 1975 and its preparation proceeded
smoothly until the end of 1975 at which time CIMA had expended about US$11
million in preoperating expenses and initial payments on contracts. Early
in 1976 cooperation between Algeria and Morocco on the project came to a
halt and a joint capital increase could not take place. As a consequence, by
June 1976 CIMA had virtually become insolvent and implementation of the joint
venture stopped de facto.
iii.      To proceed with the project without further delay and safeguard
the interests of both shareholders, the Moroccan authorities in mid-1976
created CIOR as a wholly Moroccan owned company to take over project
implementation. CIMA administered by a temporary administrator, remained in
existence and CIMA's assets and contracts were transferred to CIOR. Under
these arrangements SNMC (A) can either recover its share in CIMA's equity by
requesting the dissolution of CIMA or reenter the project at a later stage.
Nevertheless, the present break-down of the joint venture arrangement implies
a 'Loss of the Algerian market which was to absorb 50% of the plant output.
With half of the originally intended, and geographically close, market lost
in Algeria, a reduction in project size was considered. However, since such
a reduction would have resulted in substantial penalty payments to suppliers



- 11 -
given the advanced state of project implementation, and in view of the
prospective deficit of domestic cement supply in Morocco plus the possibility
that the originally joint project might be reestablished at a later stage the
Moroccan authorities decided to continue the construction of the cement plant
in its original scope.
iv.       CIOR's Board of Directors is composed of representatives from ODI
and several Ministries. ODI is an agency estabished to prepare investment
studies and promote industrial projects; it is wholly state-owned, and de-
pends financially on the Government and local banks to support its activities
by grants, treasury advances and loans. Because of ODI's financial dependence
on the Government, the Government has agreed to guarantee O])I's performance
under the Bank loan.
v.        Cement consumption in Morocco has been increasing steadily since
Independence, averaging 14.5% per year in the recent past. Domestic produc-
tion capacity has also been expanding substantially, but has failed to keep
up with demand. In the last few years cement imports have therefore increased
steadily and reached 25% of apparent consumption in 1976. On the basis of
Morocco's development prospects, cement demand is expected to continue its
rapid growth especially for housing, the shortage of which has become critical.
It is estimated that cement demand will increase from 2.9 million tons in 1976
to about 4.5 million tons in 1980 and 6 million tons in 1985, representing
an average annual growth rate of about 9% during the next decade. To meet
this demand three new plants (CIOR being one of them) and expansions of exist-
ing plants are under construction or planned. Notwithstanding this capacity
build-up domestic supply in Morocco in the early 80's would either just about
meet or fall slightly short of forecasted demand. To optimally plan further
expansions of new domestic cement capacity, the Moroccan authorities agreed to
undertake a detailed cement market study and to consult with the Bank on cement
market prospects prior to expanding cement production capacity in Morocco.
vi.       In the Oriental Region, the project's most natural market, the
availability of CIOR's entire production will result in a regional oversupply,
for some 12 years until demand will have grown enough to absorb the plant's
output. In the meantime, part of CIOR's production will be used to alleviate
expected shortages in other regions of Morocco, especially around Fez and
Casablanca. Transport of CIOR's cement to these regions will be by rail in
unit trains on the main Oujda-Casablanca line. Transport arrangements for
the project include the purchase of special wagons by the National Railway
Company (ONCF) and a transport agreement between CIOR and ONCF.
vii.      Cement prices in Morocco are controlled by the Government which
fixes the maximum prices at the ex-factory level, while control of wholesale
and retail prices was only recently introduced. Ex-factory prices which
remained virtually unchanged from 1958 to 1974 have been gradually increased
over the last two years to about US$33/ton. This is not high, however,
when compared with domestic prices in Europe and North America. Ex-factory
costs of the new facilities coming on stream in Morocco after 1976 will be



- iii -
substantially higher than ex-factory costs of the existing cement plants
which had been built at considerably lower capital costs and are almost fully
depreciated. In future ex-factory cement prices will be set at levels such
as to allow each enterprise a reasonable profit under conditions of efficient
operations without subsidies of any kind, except investment incentives for
limited periods of time to help finance new capacities or expansions, but in
any case to allow the industry as a whole to earn a reasonable return on its
combined net fixed assets in operation as periodically revalued. The pricing
mechanism is expected to lead to reasonable and relatively stable prices to
the consumer, while maintaining the principle of reward for efficient operation
and at the same time avoiding windfall profits. It would allow adjustment of
cement prices with inflation and financing of investment incentives by intra-
sectoral transfer payments without reliance on subsidies by the Government
budget or by other sectors. The Government agreed to undertake a study in 1977
which would establish the details of setting up the above pricing mechanism.
viii.     CIOR has been established primarily as a cement producing company.
Its distribution activities will be essentially limited to the transportation
to and the operation of a few distribution terminals (still to be built) and
to sales (ex-plant and ex-terminal) through existing private distribution
channels starting at the wholesale level. CIOR agreed to update during 1977
existing distribution studies in consultation with the Bank and to implement
the chosen distribution system as needed thereafter.
ix.       CIOR is employing APCM, a British cement manufacturer and consulting
firm, to assist it in project preparation, detailed engineering, procurement,
erection, construction supervision, start-up and training. The average cost
of APCM's consulting services has been about US$3,300 per man month. At the
same time, CIOR is carrying out a comprehensive training program for its
technical staff, including training by APCM, foreign equipment suppliers and
in Moroccan plants. To supplement this internal effort and to ensure efficient
operation of the plant after commissioning, CIOR has agreed to enter by end
1977 into a technical assistance arrangement for the first operating years.
x.        Total financing required for the project including interest during
construction, initial working capital and the pricing/distribution studies
to be undertaken by the Government, is estimated at DH 818.6 million (US$182
million), 52% of which in foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan of US$45
million equivalent will cover 47% of the project's estimated total foreign
exchange requirements. It will be made to CIOR for 14 years, including
3 years of grace, at the prevailing interest rate plus a gurantee fee payable
to the Government to bring total interest cost to CIOR to a 10% p.a. The remain-
ing financing will be provided as: (i) DH 328 million (US$72.9 million) in
equity or 40% of total financing required; (ii) Treasury advances from the
Moroccan Government for 17 years including 3 years of grace totalling DH 256.5
million (US$57.1 million); and (iii) DH 31.6 million (US$7.0 million) of
medium term loans from Moroccan banks for initial working capital.



- iv -
xi.       Procurement of civil works, equipment and services for the cement
plant as well as for the distribution facilities is being carried out follow-
ing ICB in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Contracts for
nearly all of the plant items have been signed. The Bank loan will cover
part of the foreign exchange component of (i) equipment for the plant and dis-
tribution terminals; (ii) civil works for foundations and buildings; (iii)
training, plant erection and commissioning, as well as consultants' services
for inspection, accounting and distribution; and (iv) interest during con-
struction on the Bank loan. Because of a major delay in loan processing due
to the break-down of the original joint venture, retroactive financing of
a maximum of US$5 million on the Bank loan is recommended.
xii.      CIOR's projected operating cost in 1976 terms is expected to be
competitive with costs of new cement plants in Europe - North Africa - Middle
East and has been estimated at US$17/ton at full production. Based on pro-
spective ex-factory revenues averaging DH 180/ton in real terms in the initial
years of production and decreasing thereafter to DH 150/ton with declining
depreciation of preoperating expenses and financial charges, the Company's
profitability and debt service coverage are adequate. The financial rate of
return of the project is about 10.0% which is adequate for a cement project
under price regulation. In order to establish and maintain CIOR on a sound
financial basis, the Company agreed (i) to maintain at all times a debt
service ratio of 1.5, a current ratio of at least 1.3 and a debt/equity ratio
of not more than 60:40, (ii) not to undertake - without prior consent of the
Bank - capital investments in excess of US$5 million annually until project
completion, and (iii) not to pay any dividends or make any other cash distri-
bution unless after such payments its current ratio is at least 1.5. To back
up CIOR's commitment, ODI as shareholder and the Government agreed to guarantee
CIOR's financial performance. To strengthen CIOR's financial department, an
adequate accounting/budgeting and cost control system will be established with
the help of consultants.
xiii.     The project has an economic rate of return of 13.8%.  This economic
return is adequate for a cement project but expectedly lower than the 16%
rate of return of the original Moroccan-Algerian joint venture because of
the additional transport costs for marketing initially the former Algerian
share of the plant's output in regions of Morocco more distant from the plant
than the original Algerian market. The annual net foreign exchange savings
for the project average about US$30.0 million in real terms. The net foreign
exchange savings are expected to offset the plant's foreign exchange cost
after 5 years of operations.
xiv.      Areas of potential project risks are market and distribution.
The risk of the Moroccan cement industry growing more quickly than required
by domestic demand and thus possibly generating severe regional supply
imbalances is being reduced by the Government's effort to monitor more



-v -
closely cement market developments and the undertaking of a comprehensive
distribution study in consultation with the Bank. The major risk for CIOR
relates to transport and marketing of a substantial part of its output at
greater distance than normal for cement. This risk is being reduced by the
establishment of an appropriate distribution system and specific transport
arrangements with ONCF, the Moroccan railway company.
xiv.      Based on the assurances and agreements spelled out in this appraisal
report, the project is suitable for a Bank loan to CIOR of US$45 million for
14 years, including 3 years of grace at the prevailing interest rate plus a
guarantee fee payable to the Government to bring total interest rate to CIOR
to 10% p.a.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a cement project of Cimenterie de l'Oriental
(CIOR), a Moroccan company. CIOR is to construct and operate a cement plant
with a nominal capacity of 1.2 million metric tons per year (tpy) of Ordinary
Port:Land cement and market the output thereof. The plant will be located
about 45 km west of Oudja, in Morocco's Oriental Region, which borders on
Algeria. CIOR is wholly owned by the Office de Developpement Industriel
(ODI), a Government agency to promote industrial development in Morocco.
Bank financing of US$45 million is being sought for the project which is
scheduled to be completed in late 1979.
1.02      The CIOR cement plant is part of Morocco's overall program to in-
crease cement production capacity from about 2.0 to 4.2 million tpy by 1980
to meet expected future domestic demand. Also, the project represents an
important component of the Moroccan Government's regional development program
which--in the framework of the third Five-Year Plan (1973-77)--emphasizes the
economic development of the Oriental Region. The project is considered vital
for the timely development of important cement-consuming sectors, such as
housing, irrigation and infrastructure.
1.03      The project--originally designed as a joint venture between Algerian
and Moroccan shareholders --was identified in mid-1974. The Bank assisted
in its evolution and appraised the Moroccan-Algerian joint venture project in
March 1975 and during short follow-up missions in July and September 1975.
The Bank appraisal mission consisted of Miss Haug and Messrs. Duvivier and
Cognet of the Industrial Projects Department. Shortly after invitations to
carry out preliminary negotiations were issued in February 1976, cooperation
between the sponsors came to a halt and processing of the project had
to be discontinued.  In June 1976, the Moroccan Government requested the Bank
to reconsider a loan for the same cement plant under sole Moroccan ownership.
In November 1976, a mission consisting of Mr. Duvivier and Messrs. Barriger
and Fournier (Consultants) reappraised the project.
1.04      Technical terms used in this report are described in Annex 1.
II. THE COMPANY AND ITS SPONSOR
A. Background
2.01      On July 26, 1972, a convention was signed between the Algerian and
Moroccan Governments to create the Cimenterie Maghrebine (CIMA) as a joint
venture to construct and operate a cement plant in Morocco's Oriental Region.
The intergovernmental agreement stipulated inter alia that (i) CIMA would be
owned on a 50:50 basis by Moroccan and Algerian interests, (ii) the Company
would be operated as a production company selling at ex-factory cost to
the shareholders its entire cement output in proportion to their respective
equity participations, (iii) the Algerian shareholders would pay to the
Moroccan Treasury a royalty of 7% of the ex-factory cost of their share of



- 2 -
production but not exceeding 7 DH/ton, (iv) the Algerian shareholders could
export free of any other tax their production share from Morocco and (v) the
Moroccan and Algerian shareholders were to represent each 50% of voting
rights; all major decisions were to require at least the consensus of two/
thirds of voting shares, i.e. in practice the agreement of both parties was
needed for Board decisions. The authorities designated simultaneously,
SNMC(A)-- Societe Nationale de Materiaux de Construction, the Algerian State
monopoly enterprise for construction materials and the Moroccan Bureau
d'Etudes et de Participations Industrielles (BEPI), the predecessor of the
Office pour le Developpement Industriel (ODI), as CIMA's shareholders; they
defined in a supplementary agreement, also dated July 26, 1972, the procedures
to be followed during project preparation and implementation. Details on the
intergovernmental convention and the BEPI-SNMC (A) Agreement are presented in
Annex 2-1.
2.02      Starting in 1973, CIMA proceeded with implementation of its task
to develop and construct the cement plant. In January 1973, a contract was
signed with APCM, a British consulting firm which called in a first phase for
geological investigations and a full feasibility study and, in the second
phase, for detailed engineering, procurement, training and project management.
Suitable geological deposits were confirmed near Oudja in mid-1973; lending
institutions such as the Bank and the Arab Fund were requested in 1974 to
provide loan funds; the feasibility study was completed by early 1975, and
first orders were placed in June 1975. By the end of that year, US$80 million
or nearly half of the estimated total fixed asset costs had been committed with
the approval of CIMA's Board. Following problems between the Governments of
Morocco and Algeria at the end of 1975, the Algerian shareholder ceased to
attend routine Board meetings, the special shareholder meetings to decide on
urgently required capital increases or the annual shareholders meeting. Since
all major decisions and, in particular, capital increase, purchase orders and
loan contracting require the participation of both shareholders, implementation
of the project as a joint venture was de facto stopped. As of May 31, 1976,
CIMA had signed contracts for equipment and civil works totalling DH 483 mil-
lion (US$107 million), had made payments of DH 46.5 million (IJS$10.3 million)
towards these contracts and for operating expenditures, leaving a cash position
of DH 13.3 million (US$3.0 million). For details see Annex 2-1, paras. 13-20
and Tables 1-2.
2.03      At this point CIMA and its sponsors had three major options regard-
ing the future of the CIMA project:
(a) First, Bankruptcy and Cancellation of the Project.
This measure would have involved (i) loss of the initial
capital of DH 75 million to the Algerian and Moroccan
shareholders; (ii) penalties payable on contracts for
which irrevocable letters of credit totalling US$48 mil-
lion had been opened by a Moroccan Bank; (iii) the negative
effect of bankruptcy by a Government-sponsored project on
Morocco's standing with the local and foreign business



- 3 -
community; and (iv) the incremental cost of importing
cement (estimated to be about US$10 million in foreign ex-
change) to satisfy the demand of the Oujda region for at
least 2 years until another Moroccan cement project could
be developed to take the place of CIMA in the Oriental
Region.
(b)  Second, Change of Project Scope by Reducing the Plant Size
to 600,000 tpy.
To avoid bankruptcy, CIMA or new sponsors could have tried
to change the existing contracts to reduce project scope and
build a 600,000 tpy cement plant to supply Morocco's Oriental
Region. By choosing this alternative (i) the sponsors would
have lost the economies of scale of a 1.2 million tpy plant,
thus increasing unit cost of cement at least 10%, further
(ii) the 600,000 tpy plant would have had to bear the full
cost of contracts completed for the 1.2 million tpy plant, in
particular pre-operating expenses, engineering cost and pre-
liminary civil works for the larger plant, and (iii) penal-
ties of up to US$20 million could have expected from can-
celling part of existing contracts, since the manufacture of
the mechanical equipment was far advanced. In addition, the
implementation of a reduced project would have excluded any
further participation by Algerian shareholders in this cement
project.
(c)  Third, Implementation of the Original 1.2 million tpy Plant
and Marketing of the Full Output in Morocco.
This alternative involves (i) full responsibility for project
financing by the Moroccan sponsors, (ii) additional investment
cost (US$4.3 million) and distribution cost (US$6.5/ton) for
marketing the original Algerian production share in Morocco,
during the first 10 years of production, but no delay in
project implementation or sunk investment cost due to bank-
ruptcy or reduced size. Further, this option can be exercised
in a manner to allow the Algerian shareholder to re-enter the
joint venture at a later stage.
Comparing the economic cost and benefits of the 3 alternative above, the
third solution, i.e., continuing with the original project, appeared to be
most advantageous, since it resulted in a 13.8% economic rate of return as
compared to 12% for the reduced 600,000 tpy cement plant scope and a negative
return in case of bankruptcy.
2.04      Taking into account the quantitative assessment above, it was also
essential to Morocco, on whose territory the plant was being constructed, to
take steps to permit the project to proceed on an orderly basis and do so in
a manner which would protect the interests of the Algerian partner and pre-
vent CIMA from being forced into bankruptcy. After careful study the follow-
ing steps have been taken.



(a)  Appointment by the Moroccan Courts of a Temporary
Administrator for CIMA with the objective of preventing
its impending insolvency and maintaining its corporate
entity.
(b)  Creation of a new company, Cimenterie de l'Oriental
(CIOR) fully owned by ODI, to continue implementation of
the project.
(c)  With the agreement of all suppliers, CIOR took over all
contracts signed by CIMA, but not yet completed. As
to CIMA's assets consisting mainly of mobile equipment
studies and investments in site clearance and other pre-
operating expenses, CIMA agreed to put these assets at
the disposal of CIOR. In exchange, CIOR provided CIMA
with two Moroccan bank guarantees totalling DH 75 million
(equal to paid-in capital) for the above contracts and
costs of assets, cashable upon CIMA's request.
The above steps were executed according to the normal Moroccan legal proce-
dures. The details of the contract adoption and the transfer of assets are
regulated in an agreement entered into by CIOR and CIMA in November 1976.
2.05      The above arrangements permit smooth continuation of the project
and provide adequate protection of the interest of both CIMA shareholders.
Maintaining CIMA in existence for the time being offers the advantage to allow
the Algerian shareholder to reenter the project. Conversely, by preventing the
bankruptcy of CIMA, these arrangements preserve in full both parties' capital
contribution in the company. In the event of liquidation of CIMA, CIMA's
paid-in capital would be shared equally between ODI and SNMC(A) which, under
the Moroccan legislation, would be entitled to repatriate its share in foreign
exchange. The Moroccan Government has indicated its willingness to let the
Algerian shareholder either reenter the joint venture or benefit from the
provisions of the Moroccan legislation if it wishes to repatriate its share.
Similarly the above arrangements provide adequate protection to CIOR since:
(i) as assets placed at CIOR's disposal by CIMA are essentially non-tangible
(studies) or mobile equipment their return to CIMA would not materially affect
CIOR's ability to operate the plant; and (ii) In case CIOR has to make payments
to CIMA under bank guarantees, ODI and the Moroccan Government are committed in
their respective Guarantee Agreements to make up for any shortage of funds
preventing CIOR from either carrying out the project or meeting its financial
obligations.
2.06      The Bank has obtained an independent legal opinion that the above
steps comply with Moroccan legislation. This legal opinion also confirms
that Moroccan exchange legislation authorizes the free convertibility and
transfer of foreign capital such as SNMC(A)'s capital share, and that such
legislation cannot be changed with retroactive effect.



- 5-
B. CIOR - Organization and Management
2.07      CIOR was registered as a "societe anonyme" under Moroccan law on
June 18, 1976, wholly owned by ODI. According to its By-Laws the Company is
administered by a Board of Directors headed by a President and including at
least 3 but not more than 15 members. All Board members are elected for a
period of 6 years. At present, CIOR's Board consists of 10 members including
5 representatives of ODI, and representatives from the Ministries of Industry,
Finance, Public Works, and the Prime Minister's Office. Mr. Benjelloun, the
President of ODI and also President of CIMA, was elected President of CIOR's
Board of Directors. CIOR's Board exercises the wide powers traditionally
exercised by the Board of a "societe anonyme", e.g. establishment of annual
and long term investment and operational plans, approval of all contracts,
agreements and loans, appointment of the General Manager and approval of
financial statements.
2.08      CIOR's management team includes the staff originally hired by CIMA
with the exception of Mr. Tahari, the Algerian Deputy General Manager who was
called back by SNMC(A) in early 1976. CIOR is headed by a General Manager,
Mr. Ennadifi, a geologist by training, who is assisted by Mr. Ramzy, an
Egyptian technical advisor, who brings to CIOR many years of experience in
cement manufacture in the Mediterranean region. Mr. Kerrou an experienced
mining engineer and the Production Manager, joined CIMA in 1974 and partici-
pated in a 12-month training program in the cement plants of APCM in England.
Mr. El Ayoubi has been appointed as manager for Finance and Administration and
CIOR is currently recruiting a Commercial Manager. CIOR's management team has
shown to be well motivated and energetic and should continue executing the
project effectively, if supported by the technical assistance outlined in para.
4.11. Details of CIOR's organization and management are given in Annex 2-2 and
an organization chart is presented in Annex 2-3.
C. ODI - The Shareholder
2.09      ODI is a Moroccan Government agency, established in 1973 to promote
industrial development in Morocco and in particular (i) to undertake pre-
investment studies, (ii) to acquire equity participation in newly created
industrial enterprises, and (iii) to contribute to regional development
through investments in appropriate projects and cooperatives. Details on
ODI's objectives, investment program and financial results are given in
Annex 2-4. At present ODI promotes about 50 projects in various stages
of preparation and execution, the majority being medium-sized textile,
agro-industry and mechanical projects. Few of ODI's projects have started
production yet. ODI can obtain funds through sales of equity participations,
profits from its own operations, dividends, Government budget allocations,
loans and bond issues; however, up to now, ODI has had to rely entirely on
Treasury advances and other Government funds to meet its capital subscrip-
tions, operational and pre-investment expenses. Under these circumstances
ODI's long-term financial viability cannot be assessed; its creditworthiness
for the moment rests entirely on the Government's commitment to continuing
financial support.



-6-
III. CEMENT MARKET, PRICING AND DISTRIBUTION
A. The Cement Market in Morocco
3.01      A detailed description of the Moroccan cement market is presented
in Annex 3-1 and major findings are summarized below.
1. Historic Supply/Consumption in Morocco
3.02      While cement production began in Morocco as early as 1918 at a
plant in Casablanca, domestic production was first stepped ulp in the early
fifties to a total capacity of 900,000 tpy with new plants in Meknes, Agadir,
Tangier and Tetouan. Originally, all 5 cement plants in Morocco were con-
trolled by foreign interests, in particular Lafarge, the French cement
manufacturer who in the 60's owned 70% of Morocco's cement capacity. Im-
plementing the Government s strategy of "Moroccanization", the Government,
Moroccan banks and private Moroccan interests have acquired since 1971
majority participations in the various cement enterprises. All compensation
questions were resolved and foreign partners have retained minority shares
and management contracts in the existing plants as well as a new plant
recently commissioned (ASMAR).
3.03      Following a temporary slowdown after independence in 1956, cement
consumption in Morocco increased steadily by 6.8% per annum during 1960-67
and 14.5% p.a. during the 1967-76 period. Production capacities were grad-
ually expanded to 1,000,000 tpy at Casablanca, 300,000 tpy at Agadir, 550,000
tpy at Meknes, 60,000 tpy at Tangier, and 150,000 tpy at Tetouan for a total
of about 2.1 million tpy in 1975. Although the plants have been operating
close to nominal capacity, domestic production has been failing to meet
demand since 1971, and imports have become necessary. These reached about
25% of apparent consumption in 1976.
Morocco: Apparent Cement Supply and Consumption (1960-1976)
('000 tons)
Average Annual
Growth Rate
1967   1971   1973   1975   1976          1967-1976
(%)
Domestic Production          868  1,481  1,624  2,022  2,160 -/a         10.7
Net Imports                   -     101      40    207    740 /a           -
Net Exports                   10     -      -       -      -               -
Apparent Consumption        858  1,582  1,664  2,229  2,900              14.5
/a   Based on 10 months actual results extrapolated.
Import procedures during the early 1970's have been cumbersome and imports
plus domestic production remained below actual demand. A repressed demand



thereby developed as witnessed by: (i) a black market for bagged cement,
(ii) cement allocation by the authorities in provinces with severe shortages,
(iii) increased production by Moroccan plants of low quality cement contain-
ing an average of 20% inert additives and in some cases up to 25% of such
additives, and (iv) the substantial jump of cement consumption in 1975/76
following imports of large quantities of cement. These imports were greatly
facilitated by a streamlining of import procedures and the creation in early
1976 of SORESMA, a new Government agency to handle all cement imports.
2. Projected Demand/Supply in Morocco
3.04      Projected Demand - The steady growth of the Moroccan economy during
the last ten years -- illustrated by a fast growth of cement consumption and
an average GDP growth of 4.9% p.a. for 1967-1972 and 6.3% for 1973-76 -- is
expected to continue through the forecast period, i.e. 1985.  Cement demand
projections using macro-economic indicators have been made (Annex 3-1); they
project that, under "most likely circumstances", cement demand in Morocco
will reach about 4.5 million tons in 1980 and about 6.1 million tons in 1985.
The following table summarizes the results based on various projection methods
and gives a range within which future domestic cement demand is expected to
fall:
Morocco: Projected Cement Demand (1978-85)
(million tons)
1978   1980   1982   1985
Low:  Correlation with GDP - Low                     3.03   3.82   4.66   5.92
Most Likely:  International Comparison               3.57   4.48   5.16   6.14
High:  Correlation with GDP - High                   3.40   4.56   5.72   7.46
The "high" and "low" projections are based, for the 1976-1980 period on a
correlation with GDP derived from 1960-1975 observations, and beyond 1980 on
a linear extrapolation of demand. The most "likely" projection is based on
a comparison between cement consumption/capita and GNP/capita for a broad
spectrum of countries with high cement consumption at different stages of
development over the 1955-75 period. The "low" projection and the "high"
projection assume an annual growth rate of GDP of respectively 5.5% and 7%
till 1980. These compare to the 7.5% growth target of the Third Plan (1973-
77) and the 6 to 6.5% official growth estimate for the Fourth Plan (1978-82)
period. The "likely" projection assumes annual growth rates of GNP of 7%
till 1980 and 6% thereafter; it thus extrapolates till 1980 the recent fast
growth of consumption/capita with GNP/capita in Morocco, and follows there-
after the curve derived from international comparison. This "likely" projec-
tion corresponds to an annual growth rate of cement of 11.5% till 1980 and
7.5% thereafter; it appears reasonable considering past evolution and the
prospects of sustained growth in one of the major cement consuming sectors,
housing. Construction in this field is expected to expand substantially,
spurred by the increasingly felt shortage of accomodations in Morocco.



- 8 -
3.05      Projected Supply - By the end of 1976 Morocco's domestic cement
production capacity consisted of (i) about 2.1 million tpy capacity in old
facilities 80% of which use the energy intensive wet-process technology and
the remaining 20% using semi-dry process, and (ii) about 0.7 million tpy
additional capacity in new facilities being commissioned, consisting of ex-
tension of existing plants and one new plant, ASMAR. To further respond to
the increasing cement demand, expansions of 3 existing plants, and 3 new dry
process plants (CIOR, ASMENT and a new Casablanca plant) with a total capacity
of 3.6 million tpy are under construction or planned. The expansions of
Tetouan and Tangier and the new 600,000 tpy ASMENT plant near Rabat are
expected to be operative before 1980, with the expansion of Agadir slightly
Later. A new I million tpy project at Casablanca to be built by the Moroccan
State enterprise Societe Nationale des Materiaux de Construction (SNMC),
recently created, is still in an early preparation stage and is not expected
to start production before 1981-82. Assuming no delays in implementation of
this project, continuing operation of all old installations and a reasonable
average utilization rate of 90% of nominal capacity as has generally been the
case in the past, domestic production in Morocco is expected to develop as
follows:
Morocco:  Projected Cement Production (1976-1980)
('000 tons)
1976     1978      1980     1982      1985
Existing Plants            2,160    2,605    2,790    3,220    3,220
New Plants                   -         195    1,420    1,960    2,610
Total Production      2,160    2,800    4,210    5,180    5,830
3.06      Projected Demand/Supply Balance  Based on the above demand and
supply projections, the following table shows the projected demand/supply
balance through 1985.
Morocco: Projected Production/Demand (1978 - 1985)
('000 tons)
1978     1980      1982     1985
Domestic Supply                      2,800    4,210    5,180    5,830
Domestic Demand: - Low               3,030    3,820    4,660    5,920
- Likely /1        3,570    4,480    5,160    6,440
- High             3,400    4,560    5,720    7,460
Domestic Surplus (Deficit)
- Low               (230)      390      520       (90)
- Likely            (770)    (270)       20      (610)
- High              (600)    (350)    (540)  (1,630)
/1   For 1978, the short-term "likely" forecast is higher than the "high"
projections based on long-term trend projections.



- 9 -
Assuming a "low" growth demand, domestic supply could catch up with demand in
the early eighties, allowing some temporary surpluses; in practice, supply in
such case would probably be smaller than indicated, by curtailing production
of the old Casablanca plant, the economic operation of which is becoming
questionable on account of excessive energy requirements and severe pollution.
In the "most likely" and the "high" demand cases, there is a supply deficit
throughout the first half of the 1980s with the exception of a brief period
around 1982 when, in the "most likely" case, demand and supply are in balance.
From the above data, it appears that had one half of CIOR's production gone to
Algeria as originally planned, the prospective cement deficit in Morocco on a
national basis would be substantially greater than shown and additional expan-
sion projects had to be undertaken. On a regional basis, however, the avail-
ability of half of CIOR's production to Morocco will, for the medium term
resuLt in an oversupply in Morocco's Eastern Provinces as explained in paras.
3.08 to 3.09.
3.07      Thus, while overall supply and demand appear to be balanced in the
early 1980s on a national basis, it is essential that further investments in
cement be optimally planned with respect to location and timing. To this end,
the Moroccan Ministry of Industry is setting up, within the newly-created SNMC,
and with the help of foreign consultants, a system to provide continuous
monitoring of the cement market. Within this system the authorities intend to
undertake, as soon as the next 5-Year Development Plan (1978-82) is available,
a comprehensive cement market study based inter alia on sectorial analysis.
3. The Market for CIOR Cement in Morocco
3.08      The market of the Oriental Region where CIOR will be located is
presently served by existing plants of the Western regions (mostly the Meknes
plant) over distances of 400 km and more, supplemented by cement imports.
When the CIOR plant was originally designed, with only half its production
allocated to Morocco, it was optimally located from a transport and distribu-
tion point of view since the cement demand in the Oriental region (Provinces
of Oujda, Nador, Figuig and Taza - IBRD Map 12528) was projected to reach
about 450,000 tpy in 1980 and 700,000 tpy in 1985. This demand would have
provided a rapid absorption of the Moroccan allocation. Following the change
to a solely Moroccan-owned plant, the availability of half of the plant's
output will result in a temporary regional oversupply even though, as indi-
cated earlier, this additional supply will be needed on a national level.
3.09      Regional cement supply shortfalls will be essentially concentrated
in the country's densely populated northwestern regions, Casablanca, Rabat,
and Fez-Meknes. While these markets are accessible from CIOR through the
main Oujda-Casablanca railway line, they are between 300 and 600 kilometers
away from the plant site and will therefore be penalized with high transport
costs. Nevertheless, half of CIOR's production will help offset the deficits
in those other regions as shown below. However, after a period of 12 years
CIOR's entire production would be required for the expanding market of the
Oriental Region.



- 10-
Morocco:  Projected Regional Supply/Demand in the Northern Regions
(000 tons)
1980                     1982                      1985
North-West  Oriental    North-West  Oriental    North-West  Oriental
Regions     Region       Regions      Region       Regions      Region
Demand      2,660         460        3,070          540         .3,830        680
Supply     1,980         938         2,290       1,173         2,940       1,173
Surplus        -         478             -         633             -         493
(Deficit)  (680)                     (780)         -           (890)
3.10      At the time the decision was taken to proceed with a solely Moroccan
project, the Moroccan authorities recognized that they had to provide for
satisfactory transport and distribution arrangements for the marketing of
CIOR's production outside the Oriental Region. As a result, a preliminary
study of transport and distribution was undertaken by CIOR and the Bank in the
Fall of 1976. The result of this study as well as the necessary steps for
further review and implementation of adequate distribution arrangements are
indicated in paras. 3.16 to 3.19.
3.11      In addition to the market study referred to in para. 3.07, the
Moroccan authorities agreed to undertake also a detailed distribution study
as well as a pricing study discussed in para. 3.25. The distribution study
will be undertaken prior to December 31, 1979 by the Ministry of Industry.
The Government agreed to consult with the Bank on terms of reference and
results of the study.
3.12      While the market and distribution studies will greatly assist
Morocco in preventing future imbalances in supply and in optimizing the
location of additional cement capacity, it will, as noted earlier, take a
good many years for the Oriental Region demand to grow to the point where
it can fully absorb CIOR's output. In order to ensure that new or expanded
facilities in Morocco will not further distort the project's distribution
pattern, assurances have been obtained from the Moroccan authorities to con-
sult with the Bank on cement market prospects within a reasonable period prior
to undertaking any significant increase in cement production capacity.
B.   Cement Distribution and Pricing in Morocco
1.   Existing Distribution System
3.13      The Moroccan cement market is characterized by an oligopolistic
situation with a large number of small individual consumers supplied by
a few producers. Cement producers consider themselves as production com-
panies only and typically sell all their output to independent wholesalers
who, in turn, sell to retailers or directly to consumers. With this trading



- 11 -
pattern, the cement companies have no influence on prices at the consumer
level, no means of transport or distribution outlets of their own, and as a
result little market transparency.
3.14      At present, there are about 100 wholesalers of construction mate-
rials including cement. Typically, they are associated with one cement plant,
do not carry stocks, but issue vouchers which enable the customer to pick up
the cement at the plant or railway station. Most plants request advance or
cash payment from wholesalers. Cement retailers are numerous and generally
trade in a wide range of commodities. Typically, they carry small cement
inventories, and own trucks enabling them to realize a substantial profit on
transport. Details of the Moroccan cement distribution system are given in
Annex 3-2.
3.15      None of the Moroccan cement producers own transport means.  About
18% of ex-factory shipments of cement are transported by rail, 2% by vessels
along the Mediterranean coast, and about 80% by truck. Road transport is
closely regulated by the Office National des Transport (ONT), which controls
private truck operators with trucks exceeding 5.5 tons through licensing,
assigning cargos and fixing freight rates. In addition to small trucks,
vehicles used by enterprises tranporting their own products are also excluded
from ONT's control. ONT's tariffs are high compared to operating costs of
trucks and have induced "illegal transport" and widespread ownership of trucks
of less than 5.5 tons. For example, in 1973 only 12% of total cement ship-
ments by trucks has been transported by ONT, the remainder being transported
in small trucks, despite the experience in other countries that cement ship-
ments by road are most economically handled in 10 to 20-ton trucks. Tariffs
of the railway company--Office National des Chemins de Fer (ONCF) -- are
about 30% below ONT tariffs on all distances exceeding 100 km. However, on
back hauls, private transporters offer prices as low as DH 0.06/ton km, and
thereby undercut the ONCF tariffs. Details on distribution channels and
cement transport in Morocco are given in Annex 3-2.
2.   Distribution and Transport of CIOR Production
3.16       Distribution:  In 1974-75, ODI and CIMA undertook a preliminary
survey to evaluate existing distribution channels and transport means in the
Oriental Region. This study concluded that the Company (i) should play a
greater role in marketing than the existing cement producers, (ii) use the
existing wholesale-retail network in the Oriental Region, supplemented with
own distribution outlets, including storage facilities, and (iii) acquire
a minimum number of 20-ton trucks, including bulk carriers, to meet basic
requirements for distributing cement thus improving the transport services
in the Oriental Region. Details of the survey are given in Annex 3-3.
3.17      The preliminary transport and distribution study for CIOR's sales
outside the Oriental Region as discussed in Annex 3-3, concluded that an
optimal solution would require unit trains with special wagons operating be-
tween CIOR and a few distribution terminals centrally located in major market
areas and equipped with fast unloading/loading facilities. Possible major
alternnatives are (i) transport in bulk and bagging cement at the terminals,
or (ii) bagging at CIOR's plant and transport/handling of bags on pallets.



- 12 -
Prospective locations of the terminals are the major towni of Fez, 310 km from
the plant and possibly Casablanca, where agreement on distribution will be
sought with other cement corporations such as SORESMA and SNMC who need to have
their own facilities in these areas. A final decision on a specific solution
and additional investments is to be taken in the framework of an interregional
transport and marketing strategy after additional studies and consultations
between the Government, CIOR, the other cement entities and ONCF (the railways)
have been concluded.
3.18       To help arrive at such a decision, during April-July 1977 CIOR will
update the preliminary transport and distribution study with the assistance
of qualified consultants to be engaged prior to April 1, 1977, on terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. The Bank will finance the foreign exchange
cost, estimated at US$50,000, of such work. CIOR has agreed to furnish to the
Bank for its comments the said distribution study by July 1, 1977 and take
within 6 weeks after the receipt of the Bank's comments a decision, in agree-
ment with the Government as to location and type of distribution terminals to
be constructed and operated by CIOR as part of the project and construct and
equip the chosen terminals promptly thereafter. In addition CIOR agreed to
enter into a transport agreement with ONCF on or before April 30, 1978.
3.19        Transport:  Assurances have also been obtained from the Government
that (i) it will cause ONCF to purchase as needed the type and number of
railway wagons required to transport CIOR's production outside the Oriental
Region as determined by the transport and distribution study outlined in the
preceding paragraph and agreed upon by the Government and CIOR in consultation
with the Bank, (ii) the Government will provide to ONCF promptly as needed, all
funds required for such wagons or facilities, and (iii) the Government will
cause ONCF to enter into a transport contract with CIOR on or before April 30,
1978.
C.   Pricing
3.20       The cement pricing system in Morocco is described in detail in
Annex 3-2. Traditionally, the Government has been controlling cement prices
by fixing maximum prices at the ex-factory level. These ex-factory prices
have varied according to the producer, but the differentials reflect trans-
port cost differences and ensure each cement plant a competitive price ad-
vantage within a radius of about 200 km. The Moroccan authorities maintained
unchanged ex-factory prices from 1958 to 1975 1/, ranging from 97.7/ton
(US$23.3/ton) bagged cement for the Casablanca plant to DH 122.6/ton
(US$29.0/ton) bagged cement for the Agadir plant. Thus, Moroccan prices
averaging US$24/ton in 1975 remained low compared to domestic cement prices
1/   Except for an adjustment reflecting increased costs of bags and taxes.
2/   Including all operating cost plus depreciation and financial charges,
but excluding profit and profit taxes.



- 13 -
in Europe averaging US$22.0 - US$34/ton, and the cost of importing cement in
Morocco which reached US$39.5/ton cif that year. Such low ex-factory prices
may have had a depressive effect on new investments in the cement sector.
Following two increases, in 1976, cement prices for bagged cement to whole-
salers (ex-factory, including taxes) averaged DH 148/ton (US$33/ton), but
cement producers realised only about DH 120/ton (US$21/ton) because of a 15%
sales tax and levies for a "price equalization and compensation scheme". The
Government started to levy the latter taxes in 1975 on certain producers while
increasing official ex-factory prices to compensate for the high cost of
imports which are sold by the Government to wholesalers at the official ex-
factory price in the Casablanca area.
3.21      In the past, the strict price control on the producer level did
not directly benefit the consumer. Wholesale and retail prices depend on
transport costs and margins of sales agents. These intermediaries charged
whatever the market could bear, resulting in up to 50% price differentials to
consumers. In 1974/75, the authorities fixed profit margins of agents
uniformly at DH 6/ton of cement for wholesalers and DH 10/ton of cement for
retailers, thus limiting the agents profit to 3-6% of sales.
3.22      The Government presently handles cement ex-factory price increases
for existing plants in an ad hoc manner and without direct concern about
the producers' return on investment. As to new cement plants, the Investment
Convention generally granted by the Government to investors also determines
the company's ex-factory price. As a rule of thumb, the Government has set
prices for new producers to enable them to earn a 10-12% return on equity and
allows automatic price adjustments in case of official increases in labor
rates, electricity tariffs, etc.
3.23      The production startup of the new ASMAR cement plant in 1976 and of
the CIOR project in 1978 raises additional pricing problems for the Moroccan
authorities: ex-factory costs 2/ for existing cement plants range from DH 75
to 100/ton, in 1976 terms, whereas for new cement plants corresponding costs
of about DH 150 to 180/ton can be expected. In capital intensive industries
such as cement, new plants have high unit costs as they are gradually brought
up to capacity operation, while fixed costs such as amortization of preopera-
ting expenses and financial charges become negligible. The Moroccan authori-
ties argue that fixing prices in reference to the actual costs of the new
plants would (i) earn existing producers substantial windfall profits and (ii)
lead to a sudden price increase of at least 25%.
3.24      The Bank discussed in detail various cement pricing mechanisms
with the Moroccan authorities. It was agreed that a pricing mechanism



- 14 -
should be adopted which would (i) allow producers to make reasonable profits,
thus ensuring that capacity expansions will be forthcoming to meet demand
growth while avoiding windfall profits for individual producers, (ii) ensure
reasonable and relatively stable prices for consumers, and (iii) provide an
adjustment mechanism for controlled prices to reflect the impact of inflation
on operating cost and in the longer run, on capital cost, ancl (iv) provide
incentives for cost-conscious, efficient operation by not covering automatic-
ally the cost of each producer. To achieve this objective the Moroccan
authorities confirmed that
(a) cement prices will be established for each cement producer
or importer on the ex-factory and ex-distribution c:enter
level, taking into account specific transport economies
and market conditions. To ensure optimal resource
allocation, it is intended to set prices to allow t:he
industry as whole to earn a return of at least 10% on
its combined net fixed assets in operation as period-
ically revalued, and based on efficient operations.
Cement prices will be fixed periodically and will be
adjusted to reflect actual changes in unit costs oi-
major inputs such as fuel and labor.
(b) within the framework of general price levels defined
under (a), the Government may grant import, invest-
ment, transport and distribution incentives for new
and expanding cement producers or importers. To cover
such incentives, taxes will be levied on the cement
industry. The Government agreed that tax revenues so
obtained from cement producers would be at least as
large as the expenditures for the various incentives.
3.25      Before introduction of the system described above I.t will be
necessary to undertake a study to determine inter alia operat:ing proce-
dures for the proposed pricing mechanism, investment incentives, original
price levels, and procedures for reevaluating periodically fixed assets
of the Moroccan cement industry. The Government agreed during negotia-
tions to undertake by December 31, 1977 such study and consult with the
Bank on its terms of references and results.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Scope of the Project
4.01      The CIOR plant is one of the main industrial projects included in
the Moroccan Five-Year Plan (1973-75). The project aims at import substitution



- 15 -
by satisfying the growing cement demand by local production, and develop-
ment of the Oriental Region, one of the less developed areas of Morocco. The
project consists of the construction and operation of a cement plant at El
Aioun, about 45 km West of Oujda in Northeast Morocco, close to the Algerian
border, and the marketing of its output in the Oriental and Northwestern
Regions. The cement plant, wiLth a nominal capacity of 1.2 milion tpy, will
produce Ordinary Portland cement and possibly some special cement types.
B.   Raw Material Availability and Analysis
4.02      Geological investigations undertaken by APCM, a large cement pro-
ducer and engineering consultant of the U.K., in 1974/75 have confirmed the
availability of sufficient reserves of the two main raw materials, i.e.
limestone and clay, to operate the plant at full capacity for over 50 years.
The limestone which is immediately adjacent to the plant, has very little
overburden and thus can be exploited by simple quarrying techniques. The
c:Lay deposit is located about 7 km from the plant; it is also easily access-
ible and exploitable and, below a few meters of overburden, has a fairly
uniiform chemical composition. The low humidity and good quality of both
limestone and clay allow production of clinker by the dry process and without
additional corrective components. Gypsum which is to be added in small
quantities to clinker for production of Ordinary Portland cement will be
quarried from a high-grade deposit already operating about 50 km from the
plant site, with 45 years recoverable reserves at CIOR's production rate.
Additives required in limited amounts for the manufacture of special cement
types can be purchased from other areas in Morocco, such as pozzolana, and
starting in the early 80's, blast furnace slag from the SONASID steel
project. Details on raw materials deposits are given in Annex 4-1.
C.   Technical Description
1.   Production Facilities
4.03      The project will utilize, as noted above, the dry process techno-
logy which offers substantial fuel savings and does not require significant
amounts of water which is scarce in the area. The cement plant consists of
(i) two complete lines of mill and kiln with four-stage preheater at a rated
capacity of 1,800 tpd of clinker, planetary coolers and electrostatic pre-
cipitators, and clinker grinding facilities, as well as (ii) auxiliary equip-
ment and installations such as equipment for the limestone and clay quarries,
raw material crusher and blending, stockpile, cement storage and dispatch
facilities. Also included are a substation and all related electrical
installations, workshops, a laboratory and a conventional control system,
since the good quality of the raw material does not require sophisticated
computer controls. The two medium-size kiln and mill units have been chosen
instead of one 3,400 tpd clinker production line because they offer greater



- 16 -
reliability of maintaining CIOR's average production level and thus outweigh
possible economy of scale of larger units. A detailed plant description is
contained in Annex 4-2. General plant layout and process flow charts are
given in Annexes 4-3 and 4-4.
2.   Utilities and Infrastructure
4.04      Utilities and infrastructure are described in greater detail in
Annex 4-5 and briefly summarized below. The plant has been designed to burn
heavy fuel oil or natural gas. Initially, the plant will operate on heavy
fuel oil, which will be supplied by rail from the Sidi Kacem refinery some
400 km distant. Fuel price delivered at plant would at present be about
DH 267/ton, i.e. it would be subsidized to the extent of about 25%. Morocco
and Algeria in the past discussed the supply of natural gas to the Oriental
Region. The use of natural gas as alternative fuel source would benefit
Morocco and may reduce the economic cost of fuel in the plant by 20-40%.
4.05      The plant's power demand estimated at 122 million KWh per year
will be supplied by the Office National de l'Electricite (ONE) from its high
voltage tansmission line passing near the site. CIOR has signed a supply
contract with ONE, who is constructing the two 60 kV connecting lines and
the 225/60 kV and 60/11 kV substations. Water requirements estimated at 16
liter/sec are adequately supplied from a deep well operated by CIOR close to
the plant.
4.06      The plant site is conveniently located alongside the main road
and railway line Algeria-Oudja-Casablanca. A 2 km rail spur has been com-
pleted to connect the plant to this line which CIOR will use for fuel supply
and cement shipments to other regions. Housing and recreation facilities for
the whole personnel, i.e. for about 440 families will be constructed at El
Aioun, the nearest town located about 15 km from the plant site. A main
office building and a few houses will also be constructed in Oujda for CIOR's
management and commercial department.
D.   Ecology
4.07      The plant is located in a semi-arid area without agricultural use.
Nevertheless, it is designed to meet anti-pollution standards comparable to
those maintained by Western European c untries as detailed in Annex 4-6.  Dust
discharge will be kept below 115 mg/Nm by the use of electrostatic precipita-
tors or filters at the various dust generating stages of production. Liquid
effluents consisting mainly of sewerage discharge will be treated in waste
treatment facilities. Appropriate noise abatement precautions have been
taken into account for the noise generating mills and crushers. CIOR has
agreed to (i) construct and operate the plant with due regard to ecological
standards, and (ii) monitor the pollution levels after production startup.
E.   Manpower and Training
4.08      Cement factories are generally capital intensive.  The project
will therefore provide direct employment for only about 500 people, of which



- 17 -
100 are unskilled workers, at an investment cost of about US$370,000 per
employee. CIOR intends to operate the plant with Moroccan personnel and a
minimum of expatriate assistance. A training program for staff and skilled
workers is underway and includes (i) intensive training courses by APCM,
CIOR's engineering consultants, in British cement plants, (ii) short-term
training by equipment suppliers in European cement production facilities,
and (iii) assignments in existing plants in Morocco. Recruiting and training
of technical staff started in 1974 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Details
on manpower projections and training are contained in Annex 4-7.
4.09      CIOR has submitted to the Bank a detailed comprehensive recruit-
ment and training program which is adequate. To ensure that recruitment and
training continues satisfactorily, during negotiations, assurances have been
obtained from CIOR for continuing adequate and timely arrangements for re-
cruitment and training of all personnel required for production, administra-
tion and distribution.
F.   Project Execution and Technical Assistance
4.10      CIOR has engaged APCM to provide project preparation and implementa-
tion services. In a first stage, APCM carried out the geological studies,
raw material analyses, the feasibility study and general plant design. In a
second phase, APCM is responsible as consulting engineer for detailed engi-
neering, preparation of procurement documents, bid evaluation and contract
preparation, training, supervision of construction, erection and commission-
ing. APCM subcontracted (i) detailed design and supervision of civil works
to Oscar Faber & Co., a British consulting engineering firm, and (ii) market
studies for the feasability study and infrastructure studies and the local
recruitment and training study to the Moroccan consulting firm Maghreb
Projects.
4.11      CIOR's contract with APCM provides an option for technical assist-
ance after commissioning whereby APCM would make available 300 man month of
assistance during the first five years of operations. Since CIOR's staff
will be relatively inexperienced, more detailed arrangements are necessary
to ensure successful operation of the plant. Therefore, CIOR has agreed to
propose to the Bank by September 30, 1977, adequate technical assistance
arrangements to operate the plant efficiently after commissioning and enter
promptly after having received the Bank's comments into a contract satis-
factory to the Bank.
G.   Project Timing
4.12      The project implementation schedule, initially prepared by APCM
and regularly updated by APCM and CIOR is shown in Annex 4-8. Equipment
delivery, construction and erection schedules are based on information
provided by suppliers, APCM's experience and actual progress on the con-
struction site. Accordingly, the plant is expected to start production in
the third quarter of 1978. This time schedule is realistic since virtually
all contracts have been signed, the main civil works started in September
1976 and erection of the mechanical equipment is just starting.



- 18 -
V. CAPITAL COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A.   Capital Cost
5.01      Capital cost estimates are detailed in Annex 5-1 and are summarized
below:
Summary of Capital Cost Estimates
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreig /  Total    %
------Million DH-------    ------Million US$------
Building and Civil Works    94.7        69.3      164.0    21.0        15.4     36.4    21
Infrastructure                57.5       8.8       66.3    12.8         2.0     14.8      9
Equipment and Erection /a   86.1    251.4         337.5    19.1        55.9     75.0    44
Freight                        6.3      13.8       20.1      1.4        3.1      4.5      3
Preoperating Expenses         23.5       2.7       26.2      5.2        0.6      5.8      3
Engineering                    5.0      11.3       16.3      1.1        2.5      3.6      2
Duties and Taxes              24.8       -         24.8      5.5         -       5.5      3
Total Base Cost           297.9    357.3       655.2    66.1       79.5    145.6    85
Physical Contingency          14.5      17.4       31.9      3.2        3.9      7.1      4
Price Escalation              30.4      20.1       50.5      6.8        4.4     11.2      7
Total Fixed Assets        342.8    394.8       737.6    76.1       87.8    163.9    96
Initial Working Capital       25.5       6.1       31.6      5.7        1.3      7.0      4
Total Cement Plant        368.3    400.9       769.2    81.8       89.1    170.9   100
Distribution Facilities        9.6       9.7       19.3      2.1        2.2       4.3
Distribution & Pricing
Study                         0.2       1.4        1.6     0.1        0.3       0.4
Total Project Cost        378.1    412.0       790.1    84.0       91.6    175.6
Interest During
Construction                 13.2      15.3       28.5      2.9        3.5      6.4
Total Financing
Required                   391.3    427.3       818.6    86.9       95.1    182.0
/a   Including commissioning and training by suppliers.
/b   Includes indirect foreign exchange costs of US$4.8 minimum.



- 19 -
5.02      Cost estimates for the plant proper are based on actual contracts
signed and payments made by October, 1976 for equipment, buildings and civil
works. Infrastructure costs related to the plant are based on actual payments
and contracts with ONE and ONCF's subcontractors who execute these project
components. Cost estimates of the office and housing facilities are based
on data prepared by the architectural company appointed for the design and
supervision of execution of these works. Since CIOR will be granted tax
concessions under the Investment Code, import taxes and duties of only 5.1%
of the cif value of imported goods, 7.5% to 10% on services and 1.7% on share
capital have been added. Signature of the Convention between the Government
and CIOR stipulating these advantages has been confirmed. Freight and in-
surance to the plant site reflect the relevant charges included in contracts
signed or suppliers' quotations. The engineering item covers APCM's services
for engineering and training, whereas the preoperating expenses item comprises
all other CIOR expenses before startup including geological studies, and
materials and supplies used during startup. Total cost of consultants' ser-
vices for the project is estimated to be US$5.4 million, including US$4.1
million for the cement plant engineering at a cost of about US$3,300 per man
month.
5.03      Possible omissions and changes in the project are expected to be
limited because of the advanced stage of project implementation. To cover
these, physical contingencies of 5% have been added to the base cost of
plant equipment civil construction and infrastructure for which contracts
have been signed, and not yet completed, and 10% for other cost items. Price
escalation rates of 12% per annum in 1976 and 8% per annum thereafter have
been applied on all project costs to the extent they are subject to price
escalation except for local components of preoperating expenses for which a
uniform rate of 7% per annum has been used. The resulting price contingency
is only 7% of base cost plus physical contingencies, since (i) prices of most
equipment contracts are fixed price contracts; and (ii) the plant will be
completed less than 2 years from the date of the base cost estimate. The
estimated fixed assets cost excluding infrastructure, totalling US$125 per
annual ton of cement produced, compares favorably with similar new plants in
other countries. The total cost estimate decreased by about 15% from the
initial cost estimate prepared at the time of the appraisal of the CIMA
jointventure project due to a favorable competitive market situation.
5.04      Capital cost of CIOR's additional distribution facilities are
estimated between DH 18 - 20 million, depending on transport and handling
alternatives selected and location of the terminals (Annex 3-3).
B.   Working Capital Requirements
5.05      Initial working capital requirements are estimated at DH 31.6
million, as detailed in Annex 5-2. This also includes all working capital
required to operate the distribution terminals.



- 20 -
C.   Financing Plan and Guarantees
5.06      Total financing required of DR 818.6 million (US$182 million)
including DH 28.5 million (US$6.4 million) for interest during construction
will be provided as follows:
Financing Plan
DH Million      US$ Million       %
Capital                                   328.0             72.9           40
Debt
- IBRD                               202.5            45.0           25
- Treasury Advances                  256.5            57.1           31
- Moroccan Commercial Banks           31.6             7.0            4
Total Debt                      490.6           109.1           60
Total Financing Required                  818.6            182.0          100
5.07      Equity financing will amount to US$72.9 million based on a 60:40
debt/equity ratio which provides adequate capitalization for a cement proj-
ect. All but DH 35 million (US$7.8 million) of CIOR's capital has been
subscribed or paid in. ODI and the Moroccan Government have agreed to make
available to CIOR the remaining DR 35 million when needed for timely project
implementation and so as to maintain at all times a debt/equity ratio of
60:40. CIOR will carry the foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan.
5.08      The proposed Bank loan of US$45 million equivalent will be made
directly to CIOR and for 14 years including 3 years of grace at the pre-
vailing interest rate (8.5% p.a. at present), plus a guarantee fee (1.5% p.a.)
payable to the Government of Morocco, bringing the total financial charges
to CIOR to 10% per annum. The Bank loan will cover 47% of the project's
foreign exchange cost.
5.09      The Government has confirmed that Treasury advances totalling
DH 256.5 million (US$57.1 million equivalent) will be made available as needed
to cover the remaining debt financing requirements excluding working capital.
The Treasury advances will be provided at terms and conditions to be agreed
upon between the Government, CIOR and the Bank. It has been assumed for the
financial projections and as discussed with the Government that the Treasury
advances will carry 6.5% interest p.a. and be repayable over 17 years includ-
ing 3 years of grace.   The Arab Fund may provide a KD 7 million loan for the
project ($24.5 million equivalent) for 17 years, including 3 years of grace,
with interest at 6.5% p.a. Its contribution would reduce accordingly the
amount indicated for Moroccan Treasury Advances.
5.10      It is intended to cover the initial working capital requirements
of DH 31.6 million (US$7.0 million) through Moroccan commercial bank loans



- 21 -
secured by current assets. ODI and the Government have agreed to provide
funds for said working capital in the unlikely event that financing from local
banks would not be forthcoming.
5.11      ONCF, the Moroccan Railway Company will require about US$3 mil-
lion equivalent to purchase new railway wagons to handle CIOR's cement
transport (paras. 3.16 - 3.19). Assurances have been obtained from the
Government that adequate funds will be made available to ONCF promptly as
needed for this purpose.
5.12      To ensure timely project completion, ODI has agreed during negotia-
tions to provide a cost overrun and project completion guarantee, i.e., make
available additional local or foreign exchange funds on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank as and when needed to promptly complete the project
and in such form that CIOR can maintain the financial covenants outlined in
para. 6.05. Since ODI is financially dependent on the Government, the Govern-
ment has agreed to guarantee ODI's performance under its obligations detailed
in paras. 5.07, 5.11 and 5.12 above.
5.13      In addition, assurances have been obtained from the shareholder
(ODI) not to transfer or sell its majority shareholding in CIOR without prior
approval of the Bank.
D.   Procurement
5.14      Procurement of civil works, equipment and services for the cement
plant has been through ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines, regardless of
sources of financing. For purposes of bid evaluation, domestic equipment
suppliers have been given a 15% margin of preference. In June 1975, CIMA
signed four fixed price contracts with Polysius (France) (after international
competitive bidding, in which Polysius was the lowest evaluated bidder) for
the supply of the mechanical equipment; for its erection and commissioning;
for the supply of appropriate spare parts; and for related training. A
contract for site preparation was signed in September 1975 with CTRA-ENATRA,
a Moroccan civil works contractor, following ICB. Contracts for the civil
works, electrical equipment and process control equipment were signed re-
spectively, in May 1976 with Construcos Technicos (Portugal), in June 1976
with Brown Boveri (Switzerland) and in July 1976 with COMSIP (France), also
after ICB. Procurement procedures for the remaining 5 internationally bid
packages for the plant (generators, inspection services, quarry equipment,
workshops and laboratory equipment) were completed in 1976 and contract
signed with various suppliers from the US, Japan and Western Europe. Finally
the additional distribution equipment will be bid through ICB in 1977-78.
5.15      Procurement of infrastructure (water supply, electricity and rail
links, housing and other social facilities) and miscellaneous mobile equipment
is being carried out through competitive bidding in accordance with local
procedures. These items are all being financed from Moroccan funds. Details
on procurement are given in Annex 5-1.



- 22 -
E.   Allocation of Bank Loan and Disbursement
5.16      As detailed in Annex 5-3, the Bank loan of US$45 million equivalent
will finance part of the foreign exchange cost of equipment, construction,
erection, training and consulting services required by CIOR for the project.
5.17      More specifically, the US$45.0 million equivalent of the Bank loan
will finance:
(a)  foreign exchange cost of equipment for the plant
and distribution terminals, (US$20.2 million);
(b)  foreign exchange cost of training, plant erection
and commissioning, and of consultant services for
inspection, accounting assistance and distribution
studies (US$4.0 million);
(c)  47% of the total cost of civil works for foundations
and buildings, representing the total estimated foreign
exchange component (US$18.0 million);
(d)  interest during construction on the Bank loan (US$2.8
million).
A detailed list of items to be financed by the Bank Loan is given in Annex 5-3.
The Bank loan is expected to be disbursed by end of 1979 as shown in the dis-
bursement schedule (Annex 5-4).
5.18      The original project was appraised in 1975 and ready for negotia-
tions in January 1976. Due to the breakdown of the original joint venture,
outside the influence of CIOR or the Bank, processing of a loan for this
cement plant has been delayed by more than one year. Consequently, advance
contracting and some retroactive financing could not entirely be avoided.
Taking into account the exceptional circumstances of this project, retroa-
ctive financing of up to US$5 million or 11% of the Bank loan, is recommended.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Operating Costs
6.01      Estimates of CIOR's operating costs and revenues are based on the
production of 90% bagged and 10% bulk Ordinary Portland cement as expected
during the early years of operation. CIOR's two production lines are expected
to be operative by the third quarter of 1978, gradually increasing output
to 98% capacity utilization by 1982 as shown in Annex 6-1.  Such capacity



- 23 -
utilization is conservative as it assumes only 310 operational days per year,
while plants normally operate 330 days per year and use this number for
establishing capacity; on such a basis CIOR's assumed capacity utilization
at full production (1982) would be 92%. Distribution costs are detailed in
Annex 6-2.
6.02      Operating cost projections are based on recent estimates prepared
by APCM and updated on the basis of data for existing cement plants in
Morocco. Projections in 1976 constant terms are given in Annex 6-1 and
those in current terms in Annex 6-3.  To reflect projected inflationary cost
changes, it has been assumed that local costs would increase by 7% p.a. and
foreign costs such as those of spares and refractories, by 10% p.a. in 1976
and 7% thereafter. Based on the present fuel oil price in Morocco, CIOR's
operating costs in 1976 constant terms are projected to decrease from US$17.9/
ton cement in 1979 to US$16.6/ton in 1983 as the efficiency of the plant
improves and the plant operates near capacity, whereas operating costs in
current terms would reach DH 98/ton (US$22/ton) in 1979 and DH 119/ton
(US$26/ton) in 1983. The removal of the present fuel subsidy in Morocco
would add about DH 6.0/ton to the production cost of cement. Thus, even
without this subsidy CIOR's operating cost structure meets international
standards for operating costs of new cement plants.
B.   Revenues
6.03      Under the new pricing system discussed with the Government, ex-
factory prices, investment and distribution incentives for new cement pro-
ducers, and taxes would be set at such levels to allow the industry to earn
a reasonable return on assets under conditions of efficient operations (para.
3.24). During the first years of production CIOR is therefore expected to
receive incentive payments like the other new producers, to compensate for
high initial costs due to heavy financial charges and depreciation and
higher operating costs as production builds up only gradually. Conversely,
thereafter these incentives would be removed and eventually taxes levied as
CIOR's total production costs decrease to an average DH 180/ton (US$40) in
current terms by 1982-84 as shown in Annex 6-4. Thus the financial projections
use net (ex-factory) revenues equivalent to DH 180/ton in 1976 real terms
for 1978-81, declining to DH 150/ton, thereafter in line with the present
ex-factory prices for new cement producers in Morocco. These revenue pro-
jections result in an acceptable financial situation (paras. 6.04-6.05).
C.   Financial Projections
6.04      Financial statements in current terms have been projected on the
assumptions given in Annex 6-3. Detailed income, cash flow and balance
sheet forecasts through 1988 are given in Annexes 6-4, 6-5 and 6-6 and
selected items are summarized below:



- 24 -
CIOR: Selected Income and Balance Sheet Items
(DH million - current terms)
1978    1979    1980    1981        1982      1985
Production (1,000 tons)               195      821      938   1,055    1,173    1,173
Utilization ratio (%) a/               49 b/   68        78       88        98        98
Net Sales                              39.8   202.8   246.9   298.0    300.1    350.5
Operating Profit                        3.2    53.2    83.3   124.4    123.1    145.0
Net Profit after Taxes (Loss)           (5.84)  (4.37)  26.7    66.3        67.5    107.5
(as % of Net Sales)                   -        -      11       22        22        30
Cash Generation                         11.3    65.0    72.6    91.5        78.4    113.9
Dividends                               -        -        3.2    27.0       28.2      68.1
Long-term Debt                        440.6   430.4   393.2   356.9    319.95   209.75
Equity                                322.2   317.8   321.0   348.0    376.2    536.5
Debt Service Coverage (times)           -        1.5      1.7      1.7       1.6       2.3
Current Ratio                           1.3      2.5      2.0      2.1       2.1       2.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                     57:43   57:43   55:45   51:49    46:54    28:72
a/   Equivalent to a 92% capacity utilization when based on the normal 330
operating days per year rather than the assumed 310 days.
b/   On the basis of 4 months production.
The above table indicates that through the first full year of operation
(1979), CIOR would experience small losses, partly on account of fast depre-
ciation (3 years) of preoperating expenses. Starting in 1980, net profits
would gradually increase and reach levels in 1981-83 sufficient to make
further incentives unnecessary and allow the assumed reduction in the ex-
factory sale price. Simultaneously, as full production is being reached,
projected cash flow should allow the start of dividend payments. In line with
the provisions of the investment convention dividend payments of 12% on equity
have been assumed after the allocation of net income after taxes to the legal
and investment reserves.



- 25 -
6.05      In order to establish and operate CIOR on a sound financial basis,
assurances have been obtained from CIOR and its shareholder ODI, to maintain
or guarantee that CIOR can maintain at all times a current ratio of at least
1.3. and a debt-service ratio of 1.5. To back up ODI's obligation, the
Government will be asked to guarantee ODI's performance under a shareholder's
guarantee agreement. In addition, CIOR agreed (i) not to incur any debt if
this would result in a debt/equity ratio greater than 60:40, (ii) not to
undertake - without prior consent of the Bank - additional capital investments
of more than US$5 million annually until project completion, 1/ and (iii) not
to pay any dividends or make any distribution of cash unless after such
payments the Company's current ratio is at least 1.5.
D.   Break-Even Analysis
6.06      The profit break-even point and cash break-even point in 1980, the
year in which CIOR would start repaying a portion of long term debt, would
be respectively at 68% and 47% of capacity. The profit break-even point and
cash break-even point in 1982 to 66% and 59% respectively.
E.   Accounting and Auditing Requirements
6.07      CIOR will require a first rate accounting and financial planning
system to control its productivity and costs. The training of a chief
accountant as part of APCM's training program is not sufficient to ensure
adequate accounting standards and cost control after startup. Therefore,
CIOR agreed to employ prior to June 30, 1977 on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, qualified consultants who will define and implement
promptly a system of general cost accounting, cost control and budgeting, as
well as of financial planning on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The foreign exchange costs of these accounting consulting services,
estimated at US$250,000, are included in the Bank loan (para. 5.17). In
addition, CIOR will have its accounts audited annually by an independent
auditing firm acceptable to the Bank.
F.   Financial Rate of Return
6.08      Financial rate of return calculations are in 1976 real value terms
and are derived from the financial projections, i.e., they assume net ex-
factory revenues in real terms equivalent DH 180/ton during 1978-81 and DH
150/ton thereafter. The rate of return is calculated for the cement plant
only, i.e., revenues and costs of the transport and distribution activities
are excluded from the calculations since CIOR will be reimbursed for these
expenses which will, thus, not affect CIOR's rate of return. The assumptions
for the calculations and for the cost/benefit streams are given in Annex 6-7.
The financial rate of return is 10%; the sensitivity tests are summarized
below:
1/ The project will be considered complete when production and sales over
a period of at least 90 days have reached 90% of rated capacity and
current ratio is at least 1.3.



- 26 -
Sensitivity Tests on Financial Rate of Return
Case                                        Rate of Return (%)
Base Case                                                    10.0
Capital Cost Increase 5%                                      9.4
Operating Cost Increase 10%                                   8.6
Revenue Decrease 10%                                          7.5
Revenue Increase 10%                                         10.8
This rate of return is adequate considering that the Government wants to keep
cement prices as low as possible to protect the consumer and encourage at the
same time necessary capacity expansions. By contrast with sales prices main-
tained throughout at the same level of DH 180/ton as in the first years of
production, the rate of return increases to 12%; this is more in line with
cement facilities in other countries. Another reason for the low financial
return is the heavy infrastructure, largely the 440-unit housing complex,
representing more than 10% of fixed asset costs, the cost of which is entirely
borne by CIOR.
G.   Major Risks
6.09      The technical risks of this project are relatively small; they may
become critical only in the unlikely event that CIOR were not to continue
with its training and technical assistance program and could not retain
qualified technicians and administrative staff. The major areas of potential
risk are market and distribution. Under the severe pressure of growing
cement demand and insufficient domestic production in the next few years, the
Moroccan cement industry could, if unchecked, commit itself to the construc-
tion of additional production capacity leading possibly in the mid-1980's to
an oversupply if growth of cement demand would be less than expected. To
avoid this risk the Government has agreed to undertake comprehensive market
studies and will consult with the Bank prior to new expansions of cement
production capacity (para. 3.12). The risk on account of distribution lies
in the transport by rail and marketing in distant regions of Morocco of about
300,000 to 600,000 tpy of cement for an extended period of time. This risk is
being reduced by the establishment of an appropriate distribution component in
consultation with the Bank and based on a detailed study, and the implementa-
tion of special transport arrangements with ONCF under Government auspices.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.   Economic Rate of Return
7.01      The economic rate of return of the project is about 13.8% in real
terms. This is higher than the 10% financial return, mainly because the
revenue per ton assumed in the financial projections is declining gradually



- 27 -
and on average is substantially below the opportunity cost of imported
cement used for the economic rate of return calculations; this cost is
estimated at US$47/ton for bagged cement, including port charges and the
high cost of cement transport in the Mediterranean basin averaging 20-30%
of fob export prices. The economic rate of return calculations eliminate
the existing subsidies on fuel (valued at US$75/ton) and electricity (valued
at a cost 50% above current tariffs), shadowprice labor and take into account
cost of tansport by rail, investment cost and operating of distribution
facilities required to market CIOR's output in market areas outside the
Oriental Region. Detailed assumptions for the calculations and the cost
benefit streams are given in Annex 7-1.
7.02      The sensitivity analysis, details of which are contained in
Annex 7-1, is summarized below:
Sensitivity Tests on Economic Rate of Return
Case                                           Economic Rate
of Return (%)
Base Case                                                    13.8
Capital Cost Increase  (5%)                                  13.2
Plant Operating Cost Increase (10%)                          12.7
Transport and Distribution Cost Increase (50%)               12.8
Revenue Increase (10%)                                       16.2
Revenue Decrease (10%)                                       11.1
Production of Blast Furnace Cement after 1984                14.7
The above economic rate of return is adequate, but not higher for the follow-
ing reasons: (i) additional costs are incurred in transporting, for possibly
up to 12 years, a substantial part of CIOR's production originally allocated
to Algeria, to market areas more remotely located than the original Algerian
market just across the border; (ii) the low opportunity cost assumed for
imported cement, based on presently low export prices which do not yet
fully reflect recent worldwide increases of capital and energy costs and (iii)
the reduced output assumed for CIOR by taking into account only production of
Ordinary Portland cement; such production could be reasonably increased
by about 20% through the manufacture of cement with additives such as blast
furnace cement, with a less than proportional increase in total costs.  The
rate of return of the project with the production of an additional 200,000
tpy by using slag from the nearby SONASID steel project for the manufacture
of blast furnace cement would be 14.3%. The rate of return of the project
as a joint venture supplying also Algeria was, on a comparable basis, about
16%.
B.   Linkages and Employment
7.03      While the plant and distribution terminals create about 500 addi-
tional jobs in the long run, some 1,200 Moroccans will be employed for



- 28 -
an average of 2 years during plant construction. The indirect employment
effect of cement supply is difficult to quantify but is considerable in the
construction industry and the tertiary sector. The ready availability of
cement will induce self-help housing construction which, in Morocco, is a
major factor for absorbing unemployment and improving living conditions. In
theory of course, cement supply from imports as well as domestic production
generate the same indirect employment effects. In practice, however, because
of import regulations, port handling deficiencies and foreign. exchange re-
strictions, imports do rarely meet actual demand and only domestic production
can ensure continued adequate availability of supply.
C.   Foreign Exchange Effects
7.04      As a project aimed at import substitution, the foreign exchange
savings obtained by this project is one of the major economic justifications.
Details of the projected foreign exchange effects of the project are given
in Annex 7-2. The net foreign exchange savings of the project, in 1976 real
value terms, increase from about US$17 million in 1979 to US$;34 million
per year at full production. In addition, total foreign exchange savings
are expected to offset the plant's net foreign exchange cost after 5 years
of production.
D.   Regional Development Impact
7.05      The CIOR plant is one of the major projects planned by the Govern-
ment to develop the Oriental Region. Separated by the Middle Atlas and the
Rif mountain area from the developed Atlantic regions where most economic
activities including industry are located, the Oriental Region has suffered
from its remote location and is one of the large less developed regions of
Morocco.  Its development will, therefore, greatly benefit from additional
investment. It is estimated that about one-third of the Moroccans living
abroad originate from this region where the unemployment level is substan-
tially above the national average. The CIOR project will be the first cement
plant in the area, thus facilitating the implementation of Morocco's invest-
ment program and private construction activities. Compared to imports,
cement supply from CIOR offers transport savings of DH 20-40/'ton. Morocco's
development plans and major projects for the Oriental Region are presented in
Annex 7-3.



- 29 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS' REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      The following major assurances and/or agreements have been
obtained:
(a)  From the Government of Morocco:  (i) to undertake a cement
distribution study in consultation with the Bank (para 3.11),
(ii) to consult with the Bank on cement market prospects
prior to any significant increase in cement production
capacity (para 3.12), (iii) to cause ONCF to implement the
project's transport component, and provide to ONCF the
necessary funds promptly as needed (para 3.19), (iv) to
undertake by December 31, 1977, in consultation with the
Bank, a cement pricing study (para 3.25) and establish and
maintain an economically sound pricing mechanism (para 3.24),
(v) to make available when needed for timely project imple-
mentation DH 256.5 million in Treasury Advances on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.09),
(vi) that ODI disposes of sufficient funds to meet its
obligations under para 5.07 (equity financing), para 5.10
(working capital), para 5.12 (project completion), and
para 6.05 (financial covenants), and (vii) that financing
for CIOR's initial working capital will be forthcoming
(para 5.10).
(b)  From ODI Under a Shareholder Guarantee Agreement:  (i) to
make available when needed the remaining DH 35 million in
share capital (para 5.07), (ii) to provide cost overrun and
project completion guarantee (para 5.12), (iii) not to
transfer or sell a majority share in CIOR without prior
approval by the Bank (para 5.13), and (iv) to provide funds
if needed so that CIOR can maintain the stipulated financial
ratios (para 6.05).
(c)  From CIOR:  (i) to update the transport and distribution
studies with the assistance of consultants to be hired prior
to April 1, 1977 on terms of references satisfactory to the
Bank (para 3.18), (ii) to furnish to the Bank the resulting
study by July 1, 1977 and implement a distribution system
promptly thereafter in consultation with the Bank and
Government (para 3.18), (iii) to sign a transport agreement
with ONCF by April. 30, 1978 (para 3.18), (iv) to construct and
operate the plant with due regards to ecological standards,
and monitor pollution levels after production startup
(para 4.07), (v) to continue making adequate and timely
arrangement for personnel recruitment and training (para 4.09),
(vi) to propose technical assistance arrangement for plant



- 30 -
operation by September 30, 1977 and sign a contract
satisfactory to the Bank promptly thereafter (para 4.11),
(vii) to maintain certain financial and investment cove-
nants (para 6.05), (viii) to employ prior to June 30, 1977
consultants satisfactory to the Bank to define and implement
adequate accounting, cost control and financial planning
systems (para 6.07), and (ix) to have its accounts audited
by an independent auditing firm acceptable to the Bank
(para 6.07).
8.02      Further, it will be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan
that the Shareholder's Guarantee Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate action.
8.03      Based on the above agreements and assurances, the project provides
a sound basis for a Bank loan to CIOR of US$45 million equivalent for 14 years
including 3 years of grace.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1977



AiNEIX 1
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PRODUCT
TECHNICAL TERMS AND PROCESS DESCRIPTION
A.   TECHNICAL TERMS
The following is a list of the most common technical terms used in
the cement industry:
CEMENT                    A hydraulic binding material in the form of an
amorphous powder consisting of tri- and bicalcium
silicates, tricalcium aluminates and tetracalcium
alumino-ferrites. Cement is produced by heating a
mix of raw materials (calcerous, argillaceous and
if required other silica, alumina or iron oxide-
bearing materials) which transforms into cement
clinker through incomplete fusion at a temperature of
about 1450C. Clinker is ground together with small
quantities of gypsum, which acts as a retarder,
controlling the setting time of the resulting cement.
The most common cement types are:
Ordinary Portland Cement used in ordinary concrete
structures.
Rapid Hardening Cement used in structures requiring
early strength which is achieved by quick setting of
cement.
Sulphate Resisting Cement used in structures exposed
to sea water or sulfurous materials.
Low Heat Cement used in structures of massive concrete
blocks (e.g., dams) to avoid overheating during
setting.
Superfine Cement used for special structures requiring
high strengths and for prestressed concrete.
Portland Blast Furnace Cement prepared, in part, from
blast furnace slag and used in ordinary cement
structures.
Oil Well Cement used in the construction of oil wells
(for lining).
Mixed Cement used for masonry work (mortar) and small
concrete structures.



ANNEX I
Page 2
CLINKER                    Clinkerization is the process of burning to produce
incomplete fusion in the material heated. Less thau
one-third of the material heated becomes fluid. The
output of this process is a rocky material called
clinker.  Clinker is ground with small additions of
gypsum to produce cement.
COMBUSTION AIR             Used with fuel to fire the kiln.
Primary Air is the small amount of air 1-njected into
the kiln together with fuel under high pressure.
Secondary Air, which constitutes the major part of
combustion air, is provided by fans and is heated
up to about 800C in the cooler prior to flowing into
the kiln.
COOLER                    Vessel in which hot clinker leaving the kiln is cooled,
The cooler is designed as heat exchanger heating the
secondary combustion air.  Three major  s,rpes of coolexi
are in use:
Air Quenching Grate Cooler: a moving g;ate, slightly
inclined on which the clinker falls from the kiln to
be cooled by fans under the grate.
Planetary Cooler: this consists of 8 to 14 cylindrical
tubes (incorporated into the shell of the kiln) into
which falls the clinker.
Rotary Cooler: (Internal Cooler) cylinder of same
construction as the rotary kiln and located under the
firing hood. It rotates on tires.
CRUSHING                   Raw materials are normally quarried in t:hle fonn of
large lumps aid blocks and mus. be sJ. xa         0 
reduction in size before being futher processed ilito
a slurry or raw meal which in turn is fed to the kiln.
The reduction of raw materials from a maximum admis-
sible size to an aggregate of a specifi~-d size is
achieved in a crusher. Major known types are;
Roll crusher:  particularly suited feor roist material
liable to cause clogging.
Jaw crusher:  particularly suited fer -     e size
lumps.
Impact crusher: such as hammer crusher and hammer
mill ideally suited for raw materials of eement manu-
facture if these are not too moist or too abrasive.
This type allows drying during the zrushing; process.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Impelle crusher: which overcomes impact resistance
of material.
Gyratory crusher: suitable for hard materials which
are not too moist, and therefore, liable to clogging.
DUST COLLECTION           Dust pollution has been a serious environmental
problem posed by cement plants as dust is generated
at nearly every stage of the production process.
Furthermore, large quantities of emitted dust also
represent lost production. Appropriated filters
have been developed:
Bag filter: A series of chambers with bags of nylon
or other material installed, which dedust the air-
stream loaded with dust particles. A system of
valves permits reversal of the air stream in a parti-
cular chamber to clean the bag and collect the
accumulated dust. Only suitable if temperatures of
the airstream and particles do not exceed 1000 to
1500C.
Cyclone: It consists of an upper cylindrical portion
and a lower funnel shaped portion. The airstream
enters the cyclonic chamber tangentially at the
upper portion. Through centrifugal force, dust par-
ticles strike the wall of the chamber and slide down
to the discharge opening of the funnel. The cleaned
airstream leaves the cyclone through a central outlet
pipe. Cyclone's efficiency can be enhanced by
arranging several units in line (multicyclone
batteries).
Gravel filter: A filter consisting of a series of
chambers filled with gravel. The dust-laden air-
stream flows through the filter pockets thereby un-
loading the dust particles. Cleaning of the filter
is by reversal of airstream and simultaneous stirring
of the gravel bed. This filter is suitable for
temperatures above 500C and, threfore, often used
for waste gases of clinker cooler and kiln.
Electrostatic filter: Electrostatic dust precipitation
makes use of the forces generated in electrically
charged bodies while the dust laden gas passes between
two electrodes connected to high tension (30,000 to
80,000 V). The positive electrode collects the dust
particles which have received a negative charge,
thereby neutralizing them. Dust must be removed



ANNEX 1
Page 4
from time to time from the electrode. Optimum
operation is achieved at temperatures of 900 to 180C
and 15-30% moisture. Therefore, a spraying tower
for cooling the gas and moistening the particles is
often employed with the electrostatic filter.
GRINDING                  Raw Grinding:  Reduction of raw material size to
specified fineness by means of a mill.
Wet Process: The hard materials (limestone) are
subjected to preliminary crushing and soft materials
(clay) are stirred with water to form a slurry. Then
both materials mixed in the correct proportions, are
ground to fine slurry.
Dry Process: Crushed raw materials are dried and
ground into fine raw meal powder.
Cement Grinding: The preparation of cement powder
from clinker and gypsum by means of a mill. The
fineness of grinding (Blaine value) has a significant
influence on the properties of the resulting cement.
Grindability of a material depends on its properties,
such as structure, cleavability, brittleness and
hardness.
HOMOGENIZATION            The thorough and complete blending of various raw
materials to prepare a homogenous mixture. This can
be achieved in storage silos in which the pre-homoge-
nized mix is stirred and mixed by an air-blower (dry
process). Wet process plants use slurry tanks with
installed rotating arms to achieve homogenization.
The tanks serve simultaneously as storage facilities.
KILN                      A vessel in which the raw meal is burnt to be chemi-
cally transformed into clinker (clinkering) at temper-
atures of around 1450C. A Shaft kiln typically with
a throughput of between 50 and 250 metric tons per
day, formerly operated on a discontinuous basis
using the dry process. New developments, using
pelletization techniques, operate continuously. A
Rotary kiln, a large cylindrical steel tube inclined
from the horizontal by 1 to 3 degrees, slowly revolves,
supported by tires and rollers. It is suitable for
wet as well as dry processes and is typically used in
modern large-scale plants with throughputs of 1,500
to 4,000 tpd.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
MILL                      Raw Mill:  Grinds raw materials.  The types employed
in modern cement plants require prior crushing or raw
materials. The most common type is the tube mill, a
horizontal cylindrical steel shell, equipped with
lining and grinding media (e.g., cast steel balls -
Ball mill) and which rotates at between 14 and 20
r.p.m. The free fall (tumbling) of the grinding media
provides for the impact by which the material is
ground. Suitable both for wet and dry processes.
Compound Tube Mills: (or combination mills, compart-
ment mills) have two or more compartments, separated
by slotted diaphragms and filled with different types
of grinding media, to achieve successively finer
grinding.
Closed Circuit Mill with centrifugal separator and
bucket elevators. The material ground in this tube
mill is conveyed in a steady flow by a bucket elevator
to a separator, within which oversize particles are
rejected by centrifugal action and returned to the
millfeed.
Air-swept Mill: Tube mill or ring mill, the output
of which is continuously assorted by an air separator.
Oversize particles are returned to the millfeed.
Ring Mill: Grinding elements (balls or rollers) roll
under pressure on a circular path (the grinding ring).
Variations of this type are spring pressure or spring-
loaded mills, centrifugal ring ball mills, centrifu-
gal suspended roller mills, edge mills.
Cement Mill: (or Clinker M4ill), a tube mill which
refines the mix of clinker and gypsum to cement powder.
Compound mills with centrifugal separator are commonly
in use.
Wash MIill: A concrete tank with installed rotating
arms to break up and stir a soft raw material (clay).
The resulting slurry is screened to remove stones
or other impurities prior to grinding. It is used
in dry as well as wet process plants.
PREHEATING SYSTEM         is a heat exchange system designed to recover the
caloric content of the kiln exhaust gases with which
to heat up the raw meal.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Grate Preheater: The preheating system of the semi-
dry process, consisting of a traveling grate which
moves raw material pellets through a drying and a
preheating chamber.
Suspension Preheater: The preheating system of the
dry process consisting of one to four stages of
simple or twin cyclones on top of each other. The
lower cyclones are used as heat exchangers, the top
cyclones as dust collectores.
PREHO140GENIZATION,       Storage facility which is also used for prehomogeni-
PLANT OR BLENDED          zation or blending of raw material.
STOCKPILE:
RAW MEAL                  A homogeneous powder consisting of a ground raw mix.
It is the kiln feed in the dry process.
RAW SLURRY                Kiln-feed for the wet process kiln.
B.   PROCESS DESCRIPTION
1.        The cement production process is based on two basic raw materials--
limestone and clay. When these raw materials present some (leficiencies in
silica, alumina or ferric oxide, these deficiencies are rectified by adding
secondary raw materials such as sand, bauxite or pyrites. These raw materials
with a maximum specified block size (blasting) are reduced to aggregates
of pre-specified maximum dimensions in the crushing department and stored;
pre-homogenization is achieved through intermediate storage. After proportion-
ing according to weight and volume, the raw materials are ground to a fine
raw meal powder in the raw mill. The raw meal is homogenized and then trans-
ported, via conveyors, to the kiln department. Within the kiln, heat induces
a clinkering process, in which an incomplete fusion of the raw meal takes
place. This clinker is then ground together with a small percentage of gypsum
to produce cement, which is shipped either in bulk or in bags.
2.        Three types of processes have been developed; the wet, dry and
semi-dry processes.
The Wet Process
3.        The raw materials, being wet in the natural state, are mixed with
water to create a slurry, whose titration (quantity ratio) can be controlled
easily. By means of pumps and ducts the slurry is introduced into the kiln,
where the clinkering takes place. Energy consumption of the process is high
(between 1350 to 2200 kcal/kg of clinker), since more than a liter of water
must be vaporized within the kiln per kg of clinker.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
4.        The main advantage of the process lies in its simplicity, easy opera-
tional control and maintenance. However, for raw materials with a natural
humidity of below 10 to 15%, the dry or semi-dry process usually operates more
economically because of lower energy consumption, even though investment costs
for the wet process are normally lower than for the comparable dry process
equipment. The recent increases in fuel prices have increased the upper limit
of humidity for the dry process applicability to about 15%.
The Dry Process
5.        This process leaves the raw material in its natural state of humidity
up to the raw mill stage; within the rawmill the material is ground and simul-
taneously dried to a specified limit. The dry raw meal powder is homogenized
mechanically or by means of blowers, then introduced at the top stage of a
pre-heating system. Working as a heat exchanger, the system preheats the
material by recovering the caloric value of the kiln exhaust gases whose flow
is counter to that of the material (Counter flow system). Thus, part of the
calcination takes place in the preheater, with the final clinkerization taking
place in the kiln. Within the cooler, the secondary air recovers heat from
the clinker, thereby cooling it down.
6.        The intricate thermic equilibrium stage in the raw mill - preheater
- kiln - cooler section allows a total thermic consumption for the dry process
plants of 750 to 950 kcal/kg of clinker. Nevertheless, the saving in fuel
are, in part, outweighed by disadvantages such as a more complicated process
flow, which is sometimes difficult to control and to maintain. Continuous and
automated sampling for control is necessary. Investment costs are usually
higher than for the wet process, despite the use of the short kiln (about half
the length of the wet process kiln).
7.        The industry has developed several variations of the dry process,
using long or short kilns cyclonic preheaters of one to four stages with
simple or twin/type cyclones within the stages. The decision as to the type
of dry process to be selected is a function of: (i) the supplier (some of the
variations are patented); (ii) the chemical components of the raw materials
and fuel (particularly their level of harmful alkalies and chlorides);
(iii) fuel economy; and (iv) initial investment costs and operating costs,
particularly control and maintenance.
The Semi-Dry Process
8.        In this process the raw material is pelletized in a balling drum by
means of between 12 to 20% of water. The wet pellets with a diameter of about
1.5 cm discharge from the drum directly into a hopper or the feed end of a
travelling grate preheater. The grate conveys the pellets through a drying
zone of about 300C, then through a preheating zone of about 87C. Kiln exhaust
gases flow partly via a bypass through the drying zone, partly directly through
the preheating zone. After passing through the preheating chamber, the hot
pellets are stripped from the travelling grate and cascade into the short kiln



ANNEX 1
Page 8
where they are heated further to clinkerize at about 1450*C. The pelletized
clinker is then cooled over a grate cooler.
9.        The thermic consumption of this process is about 850 kcal/kg of
clinker, thus comparable to the dry process. However, the process is more
expensive both in inital investment and operating costs, as it contains many
moving parts. Its suitability is confined to raw materials which lend them-
selves to pelletization. Its advantage lies in the stability of the process,
the accuracy with which it can be adjusted and controlled, and the removal
of harmful alkalies and chlorides from the raw material in process, which is
achieved by collecting the dust form the bypass in a cyclone dust collector.
The resulting cement has, therefore a lower alkali content than can be
obtained with dry process equipment.
Industrial Projects Department
November 1976



AIINEX 2-1
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
CIMA - ORGANIZATION, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PRESENT LEGAL STATUS
A.   BASIC AGREEMENTS
1.        On July 26, 1972, a convention was signed between representatives
of the Algerian and Moroccan Governments to create a joint Algerian-Moroccan
venture to construct and operate a cement plant in Oudja region. This con-
vention has, however, not been ratified by the Moroccan authorities. The
enterprise was to be the first joint industrial venture between the two
countries and is supposed to manifest the mutual spirit of cooperation and
fraternity.
2.        The Convention defines the framework of cooperation and stipulates,
in particular:
(a) The Company - to be named CIMA (Cimenterie Maghrebine) - will
construct and operate a 1 million tpy cement plant in the
Oudja region.
(b) Share capital will be acquired on a 50:50 basis by one or
several Algerian State enterprises and the Moroccan State
or private Moroccan interests.
(c) Both shareholders will take 50% of the output at ex-factory
cost. The latter being defined as the sum of the raw
material, utilities, labor, material and supply costs plus
administrative expenses, financial charges, depreciation,
provisions for replacement investments, duties and taxes,
and other income.
(d) The Algerian shareholders pays to the Moroccan Treasury a
royalty of 7% of the ex-factory cost but not exceeding
7DH/ton (In July 1975, this amount has been amended to
12DH/ton).
(e) The Government of Morocco guarantees tax free exportation
of the Algerian production share to Algeria.
(f)  The company, CIMA, is not to be liquidated without con-
sultation among the two governments.
BEPI-SN14C(A) Agreement
3.        BEPI (Bureau d'Etude et de Participations Industrielles) and SRRIC(A)
(Societe Nationale de Materiaux de Construction) have been designated as the
respective Moroccan and Algerian shareholders. Details of BEPI (and its
successor ODI) are contained in Annex 2-4.



ANNEX 2-1
Page 2
4.        The Agreement between BEPI and SNMC(A) was signed by their Presidents/
General Managers on Sept. 12, 1972. It reiterates the articles agreed upon
in the Intergovernmental convention and stipulates in addition the following
major points.
(a) The initial share capital is fixed at DH 2 million equivalent
to 12,000 shares of DH 100 each.
(b) An engineering consulting firm will carry out the following
studies and submit them to CINA's Board of Directors: market
study, determination of plant location, geological study,
geotechnical investigation of the plant site, process choice,
raw material analysis, financing plan, tender documents,
bidding, overall justification and profitability study on
the basis of the bidding results, project implementation
schedules and planning, etc.
(c) On the basis of these studies an extraordinary meeting of
the shareholders will be held to decide on the financing
plan and the amount of the necessary capital increase.
(d) Each shareholder will take delivery of its production
share at the factory gate.
CINA By-Laws
5.        By-Laws for CGMA were signed by the two shareholders on July 26,
1972 and adopted by a special meeting of CIMIA's General Assembly on
November 28, 1972. The Company was registered as a "societe anonyme" under
Moroccan law on December 11, 1972.
6.        According to its by-laws CIMA is administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of at least 6 members but not more than 12 members
of which 50% represent the Moroccan shareholders and 50% the Algerian
shareholders. At present, CINA has 12 directors. They are appointed for
a period of two years and their nomination is renewable. The Board of
Directors elects from among its members a president and vice-president.
CIMA's president in 1974-76 has been Mr. Benjelloun, the General Manager of
ODI. All directors must be Moroccan or Algerian nationals.
7.        The Board of Directors is supposed to meet as often as necessary
in the interest of the Company, but at least 5 times per year. All major
decisions have to be approved with two-third majority. In case no such
majority is found, the statutes require an elaborate process of reconcilia-
tion by first seeking the judgment of a "commission de conciliation" which
is not binding, and second -- to nominate a "Tribunal arbitral" under the
supervision of the International Chamber of Commerce in Geneva. The
responsibilities of the Board of Directors are the approval of:



ANNEX 2-1
Page 3
(a)  the annual and long-term investment and operational
plans,
(b)  the accounts, depreciation, provision and dividend
allowances,
(c)  the general conditions of contracts between CIMA
and third parties,
(d)  all loans for more than two years.
8.        In addition, the Board of Directors appoints an "Executive Com-
mittee" consisting of the President and Vice President, CIMA's general
manager and deputy general manager. This committee decides the most
important management problems in case the involvement of the Board of
Directors is not called for.
9.        The by-laws also foresee the annual meeting of a General
Assembly within 6 months of the end of the Company's fiscal year. The main
responsibilities of the General Assembly are:
(a)  Approving of the financial statements,
(b)  Determining the amount of dividends, depreciation
special reserves and provisions to be allocated
each year,
(c)  Nominating new members of the Board of Directors
and the Commissaires aux Comptes.
10.       Overall, CIMA's organizational framework as laid down in the by-laws
takes considerable precautions to involve both shareholders in all major
managerial decisions. However, it may not lend itself to fast decision making.
In case of controversies between the two shareholder groups lengthy litigation
may impede the proper operation of the Company.
B.   ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
11.       The following diagramme outlines the organizational structure of
CIMA.



ANNEX 2-1
Page 4
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
President - Mr. Benjelloun (ODI)
Vice President - Mr. Belhadi (SNMC (A))
Algerian Directors                                       Moroccan Directors
1.   Mr. Moussi                                          1.   Mr. Bijad
2.   Mr. Zekri                                           2.   Mr. Bensaho
3.   Mr. Boudjabi                                        3.   Mr. Kabbaj
4.   Mr. Djakarta                                        4.   Mr. Aboulfadi
5.   Mr. Keraman                                         5.   Mr. Belkora
The Algerian Directors on CIMA's Board are SNMC representatives, whereas
the Moroccan representatives are delegates from ODI as well as the concerned
ministries.
Mr. Ennadifi, the Moroccan General Manager of CIMA and Mr. Tahari,
the Algerian Deputy General Manager are members of CIMA's Executive Committee.
Mr. Tahari has been recalled by SNMC(A) since early 1976.
C.  FINANCIAL POSITION
12.       As of December 30, 1975 CIMA owned DH 75 million in equity capital,
short-term debt of DH 1.4 million, commitments signed totalling DH 350 million
and DH 40 million in cash. Table 1 and 2 of this Annex give CIMA's financial
statements for further details. To ensure that CIMA could meet its finan-
cial obligations vis a vis its contractors and personnel, Mr. Benjelloun,
CIMA's president, called shareholder meetings for December 1'3, 1975, and
April 17, 1976 to decide on a further capital increases. No decision could
be taken at these shareholder meetings, because they were not attended by
representatives of SNMC(A). As a result, as of May 1976, CIMA's position
had become extremely difficult showing DH 482 million in commitments for
contracts and DH 13 million in cash, but being unable to either increase its
capital or contracting long-term debts.
D.   PRESENT LEGAL STATUS
13.       Following the break-down of CIMA's management after the shareholder
meeting of April 7, 1976, the Moroccan directors in accordance with Moroccan laws,
called on the President of the Court of First Instance of Rabat to:  (i) nominate
a temporary administrator, who would inter alia call an extraordinary share-
holders meeting and (ii) take all necessary legal steps in case this meeting
would not convene.  Accordingly Mr. Ben Moussa was nominated by the Court on
April 21, 1976 as temporary administrator empowered with the same power as
the Board of Directors. Mr. Ben Moussa called the extraordinary shareholders
meeting on June 7, 1976 and the annual shareholders meeting on July 7, 1976,



A4NEX 2-1
Page 5
to approve the financial statements for fiscal year 1975. Again, no decisions
could be taken because of insufficient shareholder attendance. The share-
holders were unable to act because of the absence of the Algerian shareholders.
Simultaneously, the temporary administrator had also established CIMA's
accounts as of May 30, 1976, which confirmed the company's impending bankruptcy.
14.       On account of the breakdown of the Company's management, and the
impending bankrupcy, the temporary administrator proposed certain measures
and agreements between CIMA and a new company Cimenterie de l'Oriental
(CIOR) created on June 28, 1976 by the Moroccan authorities to continue the
project (as detailed in Annex 2-2) while keeping CIMA in existence. The Court
was informed by the temporary administrator prior to making any arrangements
between CIMA and CIOR. The agreements are set forth in a convention signed on
November 7, 1976 between the two companies and which specifies that:
(i) CIOR substituting itself for CIMA takes over, with ODI's
guarantee, all commitments or contracts previously entered into
by CIMA; CIMA therefore terminates all these contracts.
(ii)  CIMA puts at the disposal of CIOR all its assets including
studies, works under construction or completed.
(iii)  CIOR provides CIMA with a first bank guarantee as a counter-
part for payments accrued on contracts not yet completed by
August 31, 1976 and a second bank guarantee as a counterpart
for completed contracts. The sum of the two guarantees is
equal to CIMA's share capital already paid in minus cash
at hand, and is cashable upon dissolution of CINIA or upon
CIMA's request.
The termination of all contracts by CIMA and the substitution by CIOR with
ODI's guarantee was accepted by all of CIMA's suppliers, contractors and
consultants, and the corresponding contractual legal steps completed by
December 1976.
16.       By preventing CIMA's bankrupcy these arrangements make it possible
for both shareholders to recover their capital contribution.  In the event
of CINA's liquidation which could occur on the demand of either shareholder,
CINA's net worth, equal to its paid-in capital could be shared equally
between both shareholders.  Under the Moroccan legislation, the Algerian
shareholder would be entitled to transfer into foreign exchange its share
of the proceeds of dissolution of the company. Conversely, by keeping CIMA
in existence, the above measures have made it possible (i) for the Algerian
shareholder to reenter the project, detailed terms and conditions of such
reentry being subject to negotiations, and (ii) conversely Algeria would be
able to withdraw its participation in CIMA if it wished to do so.



ANNEX 2-1
Page 6
17.       The Bank obtained confirmation of the legality of the measures taken
by the temporary administrator and the Moroccan authorities through an
independent legal opinion from Mr. Guedira, lawyer at the Moroccan Courts.
Mr. Guedira confirmed that:
(i) all actions undertaken by CIMA's temporary administrator
conform with Moroccan law and do not exceed his powers.
(ii) the Moroccan legislation permits the full transfer of equity
contributions in foreign exchange for all registered
foreign investments (such as SNMC (A)'s share in CIMA).
(iii)  the exchange control legislation, like other Moroccan
legislation cannot be changed retroactively.
(iv) the convention entered into by CGIA and CIOR is legally correct.
Industrial Projects Department
January 977



ANNEX 2-1
Page 7
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 1
CIMA - INCOME STATEMENTS (1974 - 76)
(000 DH)
/1            /I        May 31,
Year Ending Dec. 31                    1974           1975           1976
Revenues                                 56            772            431
Expenses
Personnel                            899          1,253            590
Taxes                                  1             21             34
Materials & Supplies                 119            227            149
Transport                            166            152             95
Administrative Expenses              167            305            169
Financial Charges                      4             14             95
Depreciation                          47             48             -
Total Expenses                1,292          2,020          1,133
Net Income (Loss)Li                  (1,348)        (1,248)           (702)
/1 Audited results.
/2 To be capitalized as pre-production investments.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 2-1
Page 8
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 2
CIMA - BALANCE SHEETS (1974-76)
(Million DH)
/1            /L        May 31,
1974           1975-          1976
ASSETS
Current Assets
- Cash/Banks                      22.5           25.1          13.3
- Accounts Receivable               -              -             0.2
Sub Total                  22.5           25.1           13.5
Fixed Assets
- Net Fixed Assets                 0.2            0.5            0.4
- Under Construction                -           38.6           46.5
Sub Total                   0.2           39.1           46.9
Other Assets                         7.4           12.2           14.7
TOTAL ASSETS               30.1           76.4           75.1
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                  0.1            1.4            0.1
Equity                              30.0           75.0           75.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES          30.1           76.4           75.1
/1 Audited results.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



ANNEX 2-2
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
CIOR - ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   BACKGROUND
1.        The Cimenterie de l'Oriental (CIOR) was created in June 1976 by the
Office pour le Developpement Industriel (ODI) to continue implementation of
the Oudja cement project, which the Cimenterie Maghrebine (CIMA) was unable
to pursue on account of the breakdown of its management and its impending
bankrupcy as detailed in Annex 2-1. CIOR was registered as a "societe anonyme"
under Moroccan law on June 16, 1976 and established in Rabat, at the head-
quarters of ODI. The company's statutes were approved and signed by the
shareholders founding meeting on June 18, 1976. The initial capital was
fixed at DH 90 million equivalent to 90,000 shares of DH 1,000 each. All
shares are presently held by ODI, but there are no restrictions as to the
nationality or legal status of possible shareholders.
CIOR By-laws
2.        As presently defined, CIOR's by-laws provide the Company with an
adequate organizational flexibility. According to the statutes, CIOR is
administered by a Board of Directors consisting of at least three members
but not more than 15, elected by the General Meeting of shareholders for a
renewable term of six years. At present, CIOR has nine directors. Each
year, the Board elects a President or an Executive Director among its members.
CIOR's President to date has been Mr. Benjelloun, the General Manager of ODI.
3.        The General Meeting of shareholders also nominates each year, one
or more "Commissaires aux Comptes". The "Commissaires" are entrusted to
report to the next shareholders General Meeting on the Company's situation,
and financial statements in particular.
4.        The Board of Directors meets as often as necessary in the interest
of the Company, at the convocation of the President or of at least two Board
members. Decisions are taken at a simple majority of present or represented
members. The Board is vested with wide powers, as a matter of fact, with
all powers "not explicitly exercised" by the General Meeting of shareholders.
The Board may inter alia sell or purchase any goods, sign contracts and con-
tract loans. The Board delegates to its President and one or more Directors
whatever power it deems advisable.
5.        The by-laws also foresee the convening of the General Meeting of
shareholders at least once a year, within six months after the end of the
Company's fiscal year. The General meeting can also be called by the Board
or in case of emergency by the "Commissaires". Further, a shareholders



ANNEX 2-2
Page 2
meeting has to be called by the Board when requested by shareholders re-
presenting at least 25% of shares. Decisions are taken at a simple majority
of votes, assuming at least 25% of the votes are represented and whereby one
share qualifies for one vote.
6.        The General Meeting, generally determines for all major issues
the course of the Company's activity. The main responsibilities of the
general meeting of shareholders are:
(a)  Approving the financial statements, as presented by the
Board and after a report from the Commissaires aux Comptes.
(b)  Determining the amount of dividends, depreciation, special
reserves and provisions to be allocated each year.
(c)  Nominating the members of the Board of Directors and the
Commissaires aux Comptes.
A Special General Meeting can also be convened and may, at a two-thirds
majority decide to modify the Company's by-laws.
B.   ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Present Management Organization
6.        The following diagram outlines the present organizational structure
of CIOR.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
President - Mr. Benjelloun - ODI
Directors
Mr. Benabderrazik - ODI
Mr. Rami Yahiaoui - ODI
Mr. Tahiri A. - ODI
Mr. Bijaad - Planning Secretary
Mr. Belkoura - Secretary of Economic Affairs
Mr. Tahiri M. Y. - Ministry of Industry
Mr. Kabbaj - Ministry of Public Works
Mr. Aboulfadl - Ministry of Finance



ANNEX 2-2
Page 3
CIOR - General Manager
Mr. Ennadifi
Plant Manager            Financial Director          Technical Advisor
Mr. Kerrou                Mr. E;l Ayoubi                Mr. Ramzy
All persons above are Moroccan nationals except the technical advisor who
is Egyptian.
7.        At present, day to day operations in CIOR are managed by Mr.
Ennadifi, a geologist by background, assisted by the financial Director Mr. El
Ayoubi and the technical advisor, Mr. Ramzy, a mechanical engineer who for
many years managed cement operations in Egypt and other Mediterranean coun-
tries. The Plant Manager, Mr. Kerrou, is a mining engineer who has been
trained in cement production for about one year by APCM in England. Before
production start-up his major role will be construction supervision, recruit-
ment and follow-up on project implementation.
8.        The remaining personnel of CIOR must be considered support staff.
At present, the managerial functions and decision-making process within CIOR
can be described shortly as follows: The General Manager, Mr. Ennadifi,
assisted by Messrs El Ayoubi and Ramzy, as well as the Consultant, APCM, pre-
pare studies, contracts and other proposals for the consideration of the
Board of Directors. The General Manager and the technical advisor also handle,
among other things, recruitment of personnel, with the help of an experienced
personnel officer Mr. Azzaoui and the local consultants Maghreb Consult.
Supervision of plant construction is carried out by the Plant Manager in
Oudja with the assistance of the consulting engineer, APCM.
Future Organizational Structure
9.        Including the General Manager, all staff will eventually live in the
Oriental Region. All plant personnel will live in El Aioun, a small township
nearby the plant. The general management, and the staff of the financial and
commercial departments will live in Oujda where the company headquarters
will be located. The commercia:L department will also handle the distribution
terminals located outside the Oriental Region. Housing will be provided for
all staff in El Aioun and Oujda as detailed in Annex 4-5.
10.       An organization chart of the Company is attached in Annex 2-3.  The
recruitment and training for qualified labor and staff, and the technical
assistance are discussed in Annex 4-6.



ANNEX 2-2
Page 4
11.       CIOR agreed to undertake additional prepatory work to strengthen the
accounting and distribution function. To this effect, CIOR will hire experi-
enced consultants to set up and initially provide assistance in operating an
adequate system of general and cost accounting, cost control and budgeting,
and financial planning (para. 6.07 main text). Further, the Company is
presently recruiting and has undertaken to hire experienced consultants to
finalize during 1977 previous distribution studies before implementing its new
distribution facilities as detailed in Annex 3-3.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



MOROCCO-CIOR CEMrNT PROJECT
CIOR ORGANIZATION CHART
D,CrEn, I9TI
g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L ,  -                                     - -
n-  ,<( 1916                                                                                                                                      --   ldhN .-  h7895



ANNEX 2-4
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
ODI - ORGANIZATION, PROGRAM AND FINANCIAL POSITION
A.   BEPI - ODI:  BACKGROUND
1.        ODI (Office pour le Developpement Industriel) is the successor of
BEPI (Bureau d'Etudes et de Participations Industrielles). BEPI was founded
on December 31, 1957 as a Government owned agency to promote industrial devel-
opment. The Bureau promoted active industrial investments during the 1958-64
period. It did, however, not succeed in stimulating substantial Moroccisation
of industry and its activities slowed down during the 1964-1970/71 period.
2.        On June 6, 1973, BEPI was transformed into ODI.  This move was
designed to strengthen the Government's effort of rapid industrialization
by creating a new, dynamic agency for industrial promotion. The major tasks
of ODI are:
(a) To undertake pre-investment and industrial sector studies
in order to identify new projects and industrial develop-
ment potential in Morocco.
(b) To acquire equity participation in newly established enter-
prises. ODI is prepared to sell its participation subse-
quently to interested Moroccan enterprise or individual.
(c) To contribute to regional development by promoting indus-
trial units with participation of local co-operatives,
enterprises or farmers.
B.   ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
3.        ODI operates under the supervision of the Ministry of Industry;
it is administered by a Board of Directors and managed by a General Manager.
The Board of Directors consist of 13 directors all of whom are ex-officio
members. They include the Prime Minister, the ministers of Industry, Fi-
nance, Agriculture, Public Works, Planning, Labor, Interior, the Economic
Advisor of the Prime Minister, and the Presidents of SNI, 1/ CDG, 2/ and
BMCE. 3/
1/   SNI - Societe Nationale d'Investissements.
2/   CDG - Caisse de Depot et de Gestion.
3/   BMCE - Banque Marocaine pour le Commerce Exterieur.



ANNEX 2-4
Page 2
4.        The Board of Directors decides about all equity participations,
cessions and creations of new industrial enterprises. However, a "Comite
de Direction" consisting of the Ministers of Industry, Planning, Agricul-
ture, Finance and ODI's General Manager screens proposals, before they are
submitted to the Board. Due to the representation of all concerned high
ranking Government officials on ODI's Board good coordination and general
consensus can be achieved before project implementation.
5.        In June 1973, Mr. Benjelloun was appointed General Manager of ODI.
He initiated a reorganization and recruited additional staff which at pres-
ent include about 50 people. The following organization has been set up:
GENERAL MANAGER
Mr. Benjelloun
CHEMICAL                       |             l
INDUSTRY                                MANAGEMENT
FINANCE         OF          ADMINISTRATION
MECHANICAL                               SUBSIDIARIES
ELECTROMECH.
INDUSTRY
ELECTRONICS
AGRO-INDUSTRY
Under the new organizational structure, the Departments responsible for pre-
investment and sector studies in the 5 industrial sectors report directly to
the General Manager. They also provide technical expertise to ODI's subsid-
iaries if so requested.
6.        The Department for "Management of Subsidiaries" has the responsi-
bility to follow-up and supervise the companies in which ODI holds equity
participation. Few of the ODI promoted enterprises have yet started produc-
tion. The role of ODI, therefore, has been mainly to review feasibility
reports, approve bids, negotiate contracts, follow-up on capital cost in-
creases and initiate equity increases. In the future, ODI plans to super-
vise closely the financial and technical performance of its subsidiaries,
although ways and means of achieving such supervision have still to be de-
termined.



ANNEX 2-4
Page 3
C.   INVESTMENT PROGRAM (1973-77)
Studies
7.        During the fiscal year 1976, ODI has continued or initiated more
than ten industrial sector studies. These studies attempt to investigate
Morocco's production and export potential in the field of synthetics, wool,
silk, printing and paper, aluminum profiles, copper casting, agricultural
implements, rolling mills and light metals. In addition, a study in co-
operation with UNIDO analyses the posssible creation of an industrial zone
at Nouaceur, and a study on the industrial development of the Oriental re-
gion will be started with the assistance of UNDP. These studies are under-
taken by ODI staff and/or in cooperation with outside consultants or multi-
national organizations. ODI disposes of an annual treasury advance of DH 3
million for its pre-investment studies. In case such a study generates a
project and enterprises are created these costs are imputed to the project;
otherwise it is transformed in a Government grant to ODT.
Investment Projects
8.        During 1976, ODI has been considering 46 investment projects.
Table 1, page 5 illustrates the required estimated capital cost and ODI's
financial participation. 18 of these actual or potential investments are
in the agro-industrial sector, 16 in the electro-mechanical industry, 6 in
the textile and leather sector and 8 in the chemical and cement sector. The
estimated investment cost per project range from US$1 million - 200 million.
Generally, ODI holds minority shareholdings of 10-20% or is acquiring a 50-
100% participation in these newly created enterprises. In the agro-indus-
trial sector, ODI has widely encouraged the participation of local farmers
who supply the new canneries, dairies, wheat or livestock processing plants.
9.        However, few of the ODI promoted enterprises have yet started pro-
duction. The investment projects are in various stages of project prepara-
tion or execution. Numerous sector and pre-feasibility studies are under
way, more than 20 companies have been created and a series of licensing or
technical assistance arrangements have been signed with foreign partners.
For the majority of ODI's projects, engineering consultants have been se-
lected and are currently preparing feasibility studies or procurement docu-
ments.
10.       The total capital cost requirements of 31 of ODI promoted invest-
ment projects has been estimated at DH 2,434 million (US$585 million). ODI's
participation will amount to about DH 614 million (US$147 million) of which
at least DH 211 million (US$51 million) has been paid. Some cost estimates
appear to be underestimated and ODI might have to provide about twice its
now programmed capital participation to implement the identified projects.



ANNEX 2-4
Page 4
D.   FINANCIAL POSITION
11.       ODI's statutes stipulate that its funds will be provided by (i)
Government's subsidies, (ii) sales of participations, (iii) loans from pri-
vate or public organizations, (iv) publicly placed bond issues after approval
by the Finance Minister, (v) profit from operations and (vi) non-Government
subsidies. In practice, ODI receives Treasury advances and subsidies for
(i) its operational expenses, (ii) financing studies included in the annual
program (see Table 1), and (iii) capital subscriptions in its subsidiaries.
The annual operating, study and investment budget is approved by the Board
of Directors. The funds are made available to ODI by trimestrial alloca-
tions.
12.       The historical income statement and balance sheets are attached as
tables 2 and 3 and illustrate the financial structure. In 1971, when BEPI
was transformed into ODI, the Government disposed of all BEPI participations
and obligations. Therefore, the 1972-74 financial statements include only
projects initiated and executed during this time period. Since few of the
subsidiaries have started production, ODI's creditworthiness rests entirely
on the Government's commitment to continuing funding.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 2-4
Page 5
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 1
ODI - PROGRAM OF PARTICIPATIONS AND PROJECT PREPARATION
ODI Paid-in
ODI Total          Capital
Capital Cost        Equity                         Participation   Dec. 31, 1976
(DH millionj   (DH million)             %          (DH million)      (DH million)
A.   Agro-Industry
1.   SICOR - cannery Oriental Region                        36.00            13.0                39              5.02              1.53
2.   SODERS - yeast processing                              20.80             19.5               26              5.08              2.08
3.   Fez dairy                                               5.0               2.0               10              0.20              0.20
4.   Doukkala dairy                                         20.00              8.0               18               1.40              1.40
5.   COMAGIS - Souss cannery                                 9.3               1.0              15               0.60              0.15
6.   SAPROTA - Livestock fodder                              8.4              4.0               46               1.84               1.60
7.   SOTRAMEG - Yeast processing and alcohol                14.5               5.8              30               1.74              1.30
8.   SNDE - Livestock development                            p.m.              3.0              25               0.74              0.74
9.   SONAFAP - Fishmeal                                      4.2               1.5             100               1.50              1.00
10.   Habib Souss                                             5.0               1.6              20               0.32              0.32
11.   SMPA - Alfalfa pulp                                    p.m.              p.m.              -                0.39              0.39
12.   EUCAPAN - Fiber panels                                120.0             48.0               25              12.0               0.25
13.   Dehydrated fruits and vegetables                        p.m.               -               -                 -                 -
14.   Brewery                                                 p.M.                               -                 -
Subtotal                                  243.2             110.4               28              30.83             10.90
B.   Electro-Mechanical Industry
15.   SIMEF - Fez electrical and Mechanical                  45.0              10.0             100              10.0               7.00
16.   MODULEC - Condensators                                 12.0               4.0              40               1.6               0.04
17.   SOMAFOME - truck components                           184.1             64.9               63              40.9               9.45
18.   SONASID - integrated steel                              p.m.           494.0                10             49.4               3.00
19.   SOMAFON - car components                                p.m.              1.0              15               0.15              0.15
20.   Tinplate                                                p.                 -                -                 -m.
Subtotal                                  241.1             573.9               18            102.15              13.64
C. Textile and Leather Industry
21.   SICOME - Meknes ready-made clothing                     8.4               3.0               16              0.48              0.48
22.   SICOFES - Fez ready-made clothing                       8.4               4.0              21               0.86              0.64
23.   ICOZ - Oued Zem cotton                                193.0             65.2               89              58.06             58.06
24.   SETLAB - spinning                                      40.0               8.0              50               4.00
Subtotal                                  249.8              80.20              79              63.40             60.18
D.  Chemical and Para Chemical Industry
25.   SNEP - PVC manufacture                                502.8             150.0               57             85.50             85.50
26.   CIOR - Cement                                         820.0            328.0              100             328.00            137.50
27.   Nitric Acid                                           160.0                -                -               1.10              1.10
28.   Polyethylene                                            p.m..-                              -
29.   Sodium Carbonate                                        p.m.               -                                  - 
Subtotal                                1,482.8             478.0               87            414.60            224.10
TOTAL                                                     2.217.0         41242.5                 49            610.98            312.89
P.M. - Pour memoire (projects inscribed, but not yet clearly defined or their cost adequately estimated)
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



ANNEX 2-4
Page 6
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 2
BEPI - ODI: HISTORICAL INCOME STATEMENTS (1971-75)-
(DH 000)
Year Ending Dec. 31                   1971       1972       1973       1974      1975-/
A. REVENUES
Subsidy for Operation          1,759     1,799      1,799      3,208      n.a.
Financial Charges                  2         29         6         41       n.a.
Other Income                     346       294        735        117       n.a.
TOTAL REVENUE                2,106     2,122      2,540      3,366     4,351
B. EXPENSES
Personnel Expenses             1,062     1,242      1,509      2,336      3,016
Taxes & Duties                     4          3         4          9)
Utilities                        101         84       110        281 )
Transport - Travel                84         96        91        168 )
Administrative Expenses          214        167       220        312 )   1,355
Financial Charges                  1          1         3          1 )
Depreciation                     259       218        223        212 )
Other Expenses                   381        82         39        181 )
TOTAL EXPENSES               2,106     1,893      2,199      3,500     4,351
C.  PROFIT (LOSS)                      -          229        341     ( 134)       -
1/  BEPI results for 1971 and 1972, ODI data thereafter.
2/  Starting 1975 ODI prepares annual "budgetde fonctionnement" instead of
Income Statements.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



ANNEX 2-4
Page 7
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECr
TABLE 3
BEPI - ODI:  HISTORICAL BALANCE SHEETS (1971-74)-
(DH million)
2/
Year Ending Dec. 31                     1971     1972       1973       1974       1975
ASSETS
A. Current Assets
Cash & Banks                       0.72      1.30       0.98     51.24       n.a.
Receivables                       15.54      0.71       0.26      0.20       n.a.
Sub Total                    16.26     2.02       1.24      51.44       n.a.
B.  Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                 2.48      2.53       2.57      2.69       n.a.
Less Depreciation                  1.40      1.50       1.54      1.63       n.a.
Net Fixed Assets              1.08      1.04      1.03       1.06       n.a.
C.  Participations
Participation                     43.39       -          -         -          -
-  CIMA/CIOR                        -        1.00       3.00     15.00      37.50
-  SNEP                             -         -         0.45      1.46      65.55
-  Others                           -         -        2.00      11.35      27.65
Sub Total                    43.84     1.45       5.45      27.81    131.65
D. Other Assets                       10.54      2.67       2.26       2.74      2.74
TOTAL ASSETS                 71.27     6.62      10.97      84.08       n.a.
LIABILITIES
A.  Current Liabilities
Payables                           0.47      0.13       0.23      0.63       n.a.
Short-Term Debts                   2.26      0.07       0.02        -        n.a.
Sub Total                     2.73     0.20       0.25       0.63       n.a.
B.  Long-Term Debt                    55.18       -          _          -          -
C.  Capital
Profit (Loss)                       -        0.23       0.57      0.44       0.44
Subsidies
-  BEPI                            0.16      1.10       0.42      0.42       0.42
-  for Operation                   5.73       -          -         -          -
-  for Studies                     3.79      3.00       3.00      3.00       3.11
-  for Participations              2.69      1.00       5.45     78.11    180.29
Sub Total                    12.37     5.11       8.86      81.53    183.82
Provision for Loss &
Damages                          0.99      1.08       1.28      1.35       n.a.
TOTAL LIABILITIES            71.27      6.62     10.97      84.08       n.a.
1/  BEPI results for 1971 and 1972, ODI results thereafter.
2/  As of 1975, ODI prepares annual "Budget d'Equipment" instead of Balance Sheets.
n.a. - not available.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 3-1
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIMA CEMENT PROJECT
THE MARKET FOR CEMENT IN MOROCCO
A. THE SUPPLY OF CEMENT IN MOROCCO
1.         Several studies of the cement market in Morocco and its probable
future developments have been undertaken. Between the various documents -
differing in scope, methods and details - many cross references exist. This
analysis makes use of and comments on the following reports:
-  World Cement Market in Figures (Cembureau)   October 1973/74
-  Le ciment au Maroc (Ciments Lafarge)               February 1974
- Cimenterie du Gharb: Etude de la demande
globale du ciment au Maroc (Promoconsult)    April 1974
- CIMA - Etude de marche (Bureau d'Etude
Kadiri)                                           May 1974
- ASMAR: Etude de marche (Societe Nationale
d'Investissement)                                 October 1974
- Rapport de project Cimenterie d'Oujda (Blue
Circle Group/APCM)                                January 1975
- Etude de commercialisation de la production
de la CIMA (Office pour le Developpement
Industriel/ODI)                                   February 1975
- Elements pour l'etablissement d'un plan
cimentier horizon 1975-1985 (Ministry of
Industry)                                         May 1975
- Comparaison de l'offre et de la demande
Ciment 1976 - 1985 (Ministry of Industry)    October 1976
Development of the Cement Industry
2.         In Morocco, the cement industry started in 1918 with the operation
of a plant on the outskirts of Casablanca. Initially this plant belonged to
the "Societe des Chaux, Ciments et Materiaux de Construction Le Palmier", but
was bought in 1930 by the "Societe des Chaux et Ciments du Maroc" a subsidiary
of the French Group Ciments Lafarge. The plant uses the wet process and till
1938 supplied about 70% of domestic demand in Morocco with an output varying
between 200 and 300,000 tpy.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 2
3.        After 1945, cement demand increased steadily.  While imports had to
be increased, domestic production was stepped up in the early fifties. In
1953, the French cement manufacturer "Societe des Ciments Francais" started
in Agadir operation of a 50,000 tpy plant using the semi-dry process. Also
in 1953, Lafarge entered production with another wet process plant near
Meknes with a capacity of 150,000 tpy. The Casablanca plant has gradually
been expanded. A fourth kiln was installed in 1955 bringing the capacity to
about 500,000 tpy.
4.        In the northern territory under Spanish Protectorate, the Tangier
plant, "Cementos Tangier" was created in 1950 by a Spanish group. The
Tangier plant, with a capacity of 60,000 tpy using the wet process, entered
operation in 1953. The primary objective of this plant was to export to
Southern Spain. Following the union of Tangier with Morocco and the inten-
sive development of new cement production facilities in Spain, the Tangier
plant lost its export market and had difficulties in focusing on the Moroccan
market. The "Cementos Marroquies" of Tetouan established by Spanish sponsors
entered production in 1954 using the dry process. With a 100,000 tpy capac-
ity, Tetouan was primarily supposed to supply the Spanish protectorate in
Morocco and export to Spain. The Tetouan plant also experienced marketing
problems after the independence and suffered from competition by the Tangier
cement plant.
5.        At the independence in 1956, the Moroccan cement production capacity
amounted to 890,000 tpy generated by the five plants. Starting shortly before
independence the production dropped substantially with demand according to
the usual circumstances of decolonization. Only in 1960 did the production
reach the high level of output experienced before independence. Under the
first Development Plan 1961-1965 demand was forecast to increase to about
900,000 tons in 1965 which required a capacity of 1,100,000 tons at 80%
capacity utilization. Existing facilities, mainly the Casablanca plant were
therefore expanded to bring total capacity to about 1,100,000 tons by the end
of 1964. The capacity then increased very little until 1967 while capacity
utilization and production increased at a modest rate with domestic consump-
tion. After 1967, domestic cement consumption increased substantially (see
paras below) leading to a shortage of cement by 1970. The cement producers,
therefore, increased capacity utilization and the ]4eknes plant added a second
kiln bringing its capacity to 400,000 tpy (500,000 ultimately). In 1969, the
industry employed 1,100 people of whom 17% were expatriates.
Recent Development and Domestic Production
6.        Until 1971 all cement plants in Morocco were controlled by foreign
groups, whereby, Lafarge controlled the largest part of the market, produc-
ing more than 70% of the domestic production. Beginning 1971, the Govern-
ment's policy of "Moroccanization" of industrial enterprises was applied to
the cement industry. During a further expansion of the Casablanca plant,
this enterprise was renamed "Lafarge-Maroc" and the Moroccan banks SNI, 1/
1/   SNI - Societe Nationale d'Investissement.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 3
BNDE, 1/ and CDG 2/ acquired together a 50% equity participation. Similarly,
SNI and private M4oroccan interests bought respectively 40% and 10% equity in
Lafarge's Meknes plant, CADEM. The Agadir plant has now Moroccan majority
shareholders, whereas the Tangier plant has been bought by Moroccan interest
and 50% of equity in the Tetouan plant has been acquired by Moroccans.
7.        Further expansion of existing plants occured in 1973/74 when (i)
the Tetouan and Agadir plants put in operation new kilns thus reaching annual
capacities of 150,000 and 270,000 tons, respectively, and (ii) a fifth kiln
entered operation at the Lafarge-Maroc plant bringing the plant's capacity to
about 1,050,000 tpy.
8.        The five plants now aggregate some 14 modern kilns.  The Lafarge-
Maroc, CADEM and the Tangier plants use the wet process; the Tetouan and
Agadir works operate on the semi-dry process. In the past, Lafarge-Maroc and
CADEM have used simultaneously fuel and coal, but now operate exclusively
on fuel oil like the other plants. Clinker production and cement grinding
facilities in the various plants have not always been balanced: for some
time the Casablanca plant supplied clinker to the Meknes plant for grinding
and bagging; the Agadir plant has produced some extra clinker for direct
export.
9.        The following table summarizes the recent cement production
capacities and actual prodution in Morocco.
Domestic Cement Production and Capacities
(000 tpy)
Nominal         Actual          Nominal          Actual
Capacity       Production       Capacity        Production
Plant             (1970)      1970       1971      (1974)      1973       1974
LAFARGE-1AROC       730        720        731      1,050        761        889
(Casablanca)
CADEM (Meknes)      500        300        444        550        516        587
AGADIR               150       121        149        270        165        240
TETOUAN              100        82         95        150        120        132
TANGIER              60         61         61         65         62         67
Total        1,540      1,404      1,481     2,085      1,624      1,915
1/   BNDE - Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique.
2/   CDG - Caisse de Depot et de Gestion.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 4
New cement installations (including extensions) do produce their full nom-
inal output only after a few years of operation as it generally takes time
to solve startup problems and complete final adjustment of the equipment.
The actual production here above compared to the nominal capacities (which
include substantial proportion of newly installed equipment) represent
therefore very high utilization of capacity, virtually full utilization
of the possible capacity.
Types of Cement MIanufactured
10.       Until 1975 the plants produced essentially two types of portland
ceL-ent: the 250/315 quality and the 20/25 quality. The 250/315 is a good
quality cement that can be used for reinforced concrete; it is produced
by grinding up to 5% gypsum with the clinker. The 20/25 cement quality is
produced from clinker plus 5% of gypsum and about 25% limestone. These
substantial additives result in a cement of poor quality which is used for
masonry works and light construction. In the last years the share of the low
quality cement in total domestic production increased to about 35% despite
the clear consumer preference for the 250/315 quality cement to respond to
the pressure of demand, domestic cement producers have increased their total
output without expanding kiln capacity but by adding more inert material and
producing more low quality cement. To ensure sales of the poor 20/25 quality,
producers had to establish quotas for each delivery to their agents. As a
result the black market for cement developed mainly for 250/315 cement.
11.       In 1975, the industry started production of pozzolanic cement which
contains in addition to clinker and gypsum, up to 20% of active pozzolana.
The qualities produced are the CPAZ 400 and CPAZ 325. These qualities of
cement offer strength characteristics equal or higher to those of the ordinary
CPA 250/315 and are chemically resistant to aggressive waters. At the same
time, the Casablanca and Agadir plants now sell also other qualities of
masonry cement which are respectively the CM 160/250 and CM 100/160. As a
result of this introduction of new qualities of cement, the average coeffi-
cient of cement/clinker for the whole industry is now about 1.2. This high
proportion of additives indicates that the utilization of available clinker
has been stretched to the reasonable upper limit.
12.       Several years ago, CADFIE produced small quantities of sulfate
resistant cement, a special cement quality. The production was subsequently
abandoned as uneconomical, so that no special cements are now produced in
Morocco.
Import of Cement
13.       The supply of cement in Morocco has been supplemented by imports of
varying degrees over the past decade. Until 1970 imports of cements amounted
to small quantities and consisted essentially of special types of cement,
mainly white cement. From 1971 the demand for ordinary portland cement has
exceeded domestic production and substantial quantities had to be imported.
Simultaneously the exports (proceeding previously at reduced levels) were



M4NEX 3-1
Page 5
stopped. The evolution of imports and exports is given in the following
table.
Nlet Imports (Exports) of Cement (1964-74)
(000 tons)
Net Import
Year             Import             Export             (Export)
1964              5.6                28.7               (23.1)
1965               4.7               40.7               (36.0)
1966               5.1               24.2               (19.1)
1967              6.3                16.6               (10.3)
1968              10.7                9.5                 1.2
1969              9.2                11.5                (2.3)
1970              10.6               12.8                (1.8)
1971            101.3                  -                101.3
1972              71.0                 -                 71.0
1973             39.6                  -                 39.6
1974                -                 5                  (5)
1975            207.0                  -                207.0
1976            740.0                  -                740.0
Source:  1964-73 Lafarge Sector Study, 1974-1975 Ministry of Industry
1976 Estimate based on ten months data extrapolated,
Ministry of Industry
Following a substantial and long-awaited increase in domestic production with
the commissioning of new equipment in several plants by 1972/74, imports
were stopped temporarily in 1974. In 1975, however, shortages did reappear
as expected and imports were resumed. In 1976 demand has substantially
outstripped domestic production, and the quantities of cement already imported
plus those arranged for end of the year were expected to total about 750,000
tons.
14.       Cement is imported as a good type "B", "Products under import
authorization" of the import clasification implying restricted imports
subject to licenses granted by the state export trade company (OCE). These
licenses are granted according to the instructions of the Ministry of Indus-
try after tentative estimation of the supply/demand balance for the coming
year in consultation with the cement producers. This rather long procedure,
the high prices quoted by the foreign suppliers compared to limited amounts
of foreign exchange available, the difficulty of estimating demand and too
optimistic assumptions of the startup of additional domestic production
capacity, have often been factors which eventually restricted imports below
1/   OCE: Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 6
levels required to fully satisfy the demand. Until 1975 all imports and the
distributions were carried out by the Moroccan cement producers themselves.
Starting in 1976, imports are now centralized and handled by SORESM1A 1/,
a new public sector corporation especially created for this purpose. The cost
of imported cement has steadily increased from 90-100 DR/ton in 1971/72 to
about 220 DH/ton CIF of bagged cement in 1975. The cost increase was espe-
cially sharp in 1973/74 after the energy price increase. The cost of the
imports has been and still is higher than the ex-factory price of Moroccan
produced cement and requires the subsidies from the "Caisse de compensation"
(applying to a variety of goods in Mlorocco) to bring them in line with the
domestic prices. By the middle of 1976, the landed cost at the port of
Casablanca of these imports has reached 210 DH/ton excluding duties and taxes,
as detailed in Annex 3-2, para. 22.
Projected Cement Supply.
15.       By the end of 1975 Morocco was faced with a domestic production
capacity of which 75% were old facilities in plants established twenty or
more years ago and 25% recent expansions of these plants. About 75% of the
total existing capacity was using the wet process which is more energy con-
suming than the dry process. The maximum kiln size was 1,000 ton per day
(TPD), and the average size for the whole industry was about 400 TPD, while
economical kiln sizes nowadays are in the 1,500-3,000 TPD range. The existing
facilities have been or are in the process of being fully utilized by succes-
sive streamlining of production lines and technical adjustment. Cement supply
is overstretched by a massive utilization of inert additives causing produc-
tion of large quantities of low quality cement. Cement demand has substan-
tially developed in regions located beyond the generally accepted 200 km limit
radius around existing plants. The construction of new plants different
locations thereby become critical.
16.       The following table present the production projections for the
existing and new cement plants in Morocco. The projections indicate an
increase of cement production from about 2.0 million tons in 1975 to about
4.9 million tons in 1982 and 5.8 million tons in 1985.
1/   SORESMA:  Societe pour la Promotion des Echanges Commerciaux.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 7
PROJECTED DOMESTIC CEMENT PRODUCTION (1975-85)
(000 tpy)
PLANT                  1975 11   1976        1978       1980       1982       1985
1. Existing Plants
Casablanca         904        900         900        900        900        900
Meknes              609        600        600        600        600        600
Agadir              289        300        366        390        800        800
Tetouan             152        152        203        240        240        240
Tangier              68         68        110        225        225        225
ASMIAR               -         140        425        450        450        450
Subtotal  2,022       2,160      2,604      2,795      3,215      3,215
2. New Plants
CItIA               -           -         195        938      1,173      1,173
ASMENT               -          -          -         480        540        540
SNGIC               -          -          -           -         250        900
Subtotal      -          -         195      1,418      1,963      2,613
TOTAL            2,022      2,160      2,799      4,213       5,178     5,838
/1   Actual production
Source: Ministry of Industry
The table above is based on: (i) for existing production facilities, reason-
able production levels that carL be maintained over the long run, based on
their past operating record; and (ii) for new plants, production at 50%, 80%
and 90% of rated capacity respectively for the first, second, third and sub-
sequent years of operation. Projected capacity till 1980 includes installa-
tions under construction or firmly planned. Projections beyond 1980 are
based on the most likely prospects of implementation of additional facilities
for which studies are being prepared but no firm decisions have yet been
taken. Actual implementation of these facilities will depend on the outcome
of geological investigation for these projects, the success in putting
together the necessary financing, and mostly the developments of cement
demand over the next four years. Paras. 17-18 comment on the prospects of
development and future output of the individual plants.
17.       Existing Plants
Casablanca: With the rapid growth of the town of Casablanca, this
old plant is now located in the middle of the suburbs



A4NEX 3-1
Page 8
and is a major source of pollution. It also lacks
space and sufficient raw material reserves to be
expanded further. Despite improvements of the
equipment, essentially in the grinding departments,
it is unlikely that this plant could achieve an average
production above 900,000 tpy. Because of the plant's
limitation and pollution problems, it is envisaged to
close it down in the eighties.
Meknes:       With recent improvements of the installations this
wet-process plant can now produce an average of about
600,000 tpy. This plant has stretched its production
to the maximum by producing only cement qualities with
high proportions of additives (masonry cement and
pozzolanic cement). Any substantial addition of capa-
city to this plant would, in the present energy context
in Morocco, consist of the construction of dry process
facilities. These would be based on other raw material
than those presently exploited and practically amount
to a separate new plant. Such solution has been
studies but will not go ahead in the near future,
since it would result in a greater regional oversupply
in Northeastern Morocco after completion of the CIOR
project.
Agadir:       With the addition of a new cement mill and rehabili-
tation of one kiln this plant will reach a nominal
capacity of 420,000 tpy in early 1977. Adequate raw
material reserves have been identified for a further
expansion. It is envisaged to builcd later on an
additional production line which could increase total
production to about 800,000 tpy around 1980.
Tangier:     An expansion is planned with engineering works and
financial participation of the Societe des Ciments
Francais. A second production line will be installed
with a second-hand semi-dry process kiln purchased
from Europe. The old existing kiln will stop produc-
tion but could possibly be refurbished. The nominal
capacity would reach 250,000 tpy with startup of the
new line scheduled for mid-1978.
Tetouan:     A modernization of the existing installations is under
way, including refurbishing of one kiln and installa-
tion of another raw mill. With both kilns in opera-
tion total production is then estimated to increase
to about 240,000 tpy.
ASlHAR:       This new plant located near Marrakech started operat-
ing in mid-1976. Its shareholders are SNI, Lafarge
Maroc, BNDE, CADEM, SNCE 1/ and IFC. Engineering and
1/   Societe Nouvelle des Conduites d'Eau.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 9
technical assistance are provided by Lafarge. The
plant has one production line with a 1,300 tpd dry-pro-
cess kiln. By producing essentially masonry and poz-
zolanic cement, the production capacity could reach
about 500,000 tpy. The raw materials deposits,
however, are difficult to exploit and limited to 40
years' production, leaving little hope for later
expansion.
i8.       New Plants
CIOR:         Several proposals for new plants in the Oriental
region had been made in the past, including small
plants (CIMOR and YASMINA) in Nador and in Taza.
Finally only the proposal for a plant in Oujda mate-
rialized. Initially proposed with a capacity of
350,000 ton of cement per year to supply the Oriental
by 1975, the Oujda project was delayed and evolved into
a much bigger plant "CIMA" with a total capacity of
1.0 million tpy of clinker to supply Algeria and the
Oriental region, Morocco. Following the withdrawal of
the Algerian partner from the joint venture, the half
of the plant's production previously allocated to
Algeria will now be available to Morocco.  The full
production of the plant or about 1,170,000 tpy (assum-
ing production exclusively of high quality CPA 250/315
with only 5% gypsum) has therefore been taken into
consideration in the supply projections. There is
also a strong possibility of increasing CIOR's produc-
tion by about 200,000 tpy by producing some blast
furnace cement. Such production will use with the
clinker, substantial amounts (30 to 70%) of blast
furnace slag from the SONASID steel project in Nador
which will start production in the early eighties.
This production could be introduced easily, bringing
the slag by rail and without significant investments
in additional installations as CIOR's material handling
and grinding facilities have enough spare capacity for
additional cement production. The timing of the intro-
duction of blast furnace cement will essentially depend
on national and regional market developments and trans-
port considerations. This extra production is not
therefore included in the supply projection limited to
the 1985 horizon.
ASINENT:      This project was initiated as CIIAGHARB by the CIII 1/
as a half million tpy plant to supply the Kenitra-
Gharb region. Difficulties in finding adequate raw
1/   Credit Immobilier et Hotelier.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 10
materials resulted in delays and a change of the
location to Temara close to Rabat. Engineering is
carried out by Lafarge and SNC from Canada. The
contract for the supply of mechanical equipment was
signed in mid-1976 with the US equipement manufacturer
Fuller. This plant will have a nominal capacity of
600,000 tpy and startup is anticipated for mid-1979.
SNMC:        A new Moroccan state enterprise, the Societe Nationale
des Materiaux de Construction, has been created in
1976 by the Ministry of Industry with the main objec-
tives of:  (i) studying, creating and operating cement
plants, quarries and other units producing building
materials, and (ii) import, export and trade of all
building materials. In the first stage SNIIC will
undertake the construction of a new 1 million tpy
cement plant near Casablanca and the installation of
a cement market monitoring system with continuous
analysis of actual consumption and projection of
future demand. For this purpose SNMIC has signed a
comprehensive consulting contract with the British
Consultants APCM and Harold Whitehead and Partners.
Potential raw material deposits for the new Casablanca
plant have just been identified near Nouasseur, south-
west of Casablanca. This plant is estimated to start
production in 1981-1982.
B.  THE DEIAND OF CEMENT IN MOROCCO
Historic Consumption Pattern and Domestic Demand
19.       Following a temporary slowdown after independence, domestic cement
consumption developed at a fast pace. As illustrated in the table below,
apparent domestic consumption attained an average annual growth rate of 11%
during the 1960-1976 period.



ANiNEX 3-1
Page 11
MOROCCO: Historic Cement Supply and Apparent Consumption
(000 tons)
YEAR         PRODUCTION   CONSUIMPTION   NET IMPORTS   NET EXPORTS
1950            322            566            244              -
1955            701            762             61              -
1960            580            542             -               32
1961            637            618             -               19
1962            700            685             -               14
1963            761            747             -               14
1964            828            805             -               23
1965            790            751             -               36
1966            854            835             -               19
1967            868            858             -               10
1968           1005           1006               1             -
1969           1169           1167             -                2
1970           1404           1402             -                2
1971           1481           1582            101              -
1972           1544           1615             71              -
1973           1624           1664             40              -
1974           1914           1909             -                5
1975           2022           2229            207              -
1976           2160           2900            740              -
Source:  1960-1973 Lafarge Sector Study, 1974-1975 Ministry of Industry,
1976, M4inistry of Industry Estimate extrapolating actual data of
the first 10 months.
Growth rates were mrodest from 1960 to 1967 averaging 6.8% per year but
increased substantially from 1967 to 1971 averaging 16.5%. This disparity
between growth rates was due to Morocco's better economic performance; the
average annual growth rates GDP (in real terms) increased from 3.2% during the
1960-67 period to 5.8% over the period 1967-71. Till 1968 domestic production
capacity was sufficient to satisfy demand and even allow modest exports. From
1969 demand caught up and outstripped domestic production as existing pro-
ducers expanded their facilities too slowly. In 1971, 1972, and 1973, Morocco
had to resort to substantial imports.  The shortage situation was lessened in
1972-1973 as the pressure of demand softened; government investment and
investment of state enterprises increased more slowly; private investors took
a wait-and-see attitude in the face of the political uncertainty and the
announced review of invesrment incentives.
20.       Since 1973, however, cement demand has surged dramatically as the
country's economic overall performance has improved steadily and construction



ANNEX 3-1
Page 12
of housing expanded vigorously spurred by a severe housing shortage. With
domestic production of cement expanding much too slowly, significant imports
have become necessary reaching about 25% of total cement consumption in 1976.
The average growth of cement consumption reached about 20% per year for
1973-76 while growth of GDP (in real terms) averaged about 6.3% per year.
Despite the substantial improvement in supply achieved through increasing
imports, cement demand appears to have been unsatisfied at various times over
the 1973-76 period as illustrated by the reappearance of a black market.
prices paid by individual consumers on the black market reportedly reached
levels 30 to 60% over the official price. Only by the end of 1976 does
supply appear to have caught up with demand following imports of about 740,000
tons for the whole year. By the end of 1976, total cement consumption has
reached a level more than triple that of 1967, which represents an average
growth of 14.4% per year.
Sectoral and Regional Consumption
21.       Little reliable data are available to indicate the sectoral and
regional use of cement in Morocco. The main cement producers Lafarge and
CADEMI have carried out sectorial analyses in 1969 and 1973 based on the
statistics of their agents. The results were as follows:
Sectorial Consumption
Lafarge (1969)        CADEM (1973)/1
%of                     % of
000 tons   Total        000 tons   Total
Public:
M4ajor Civil Works            82        7.0           11        2.0
Urban Works                  102        8.7           45        9.0
Rural Works /2                89        7.6           60       11.5
Others /3                     79        6.7           18        3.5
352      30.0           135      26.2
Private:
Industry & Commerce          199       17.0           85       16.4
Housing                      534       45.5          256       49.6
Cement Products               88        7.5           40        7.8
821      70.0           381      73.8
TOTAL                             1173     100.0           516     100.0
/1   Sales from Meknes plant only.
/2   Including irrigation.
/3   Power, waterworks, railways.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 13
Thie Lafarge survey which covered all of Mforocco and the CADEM study confined
to sales from Meknes, show good agreement and suggest that the sectorial
breakdown is relatively uniform throughout the country. Data of sales from
Lafarge over the period 1960-73 further suggest that breakdown changed little
during this time. The survey highlights the importance of housing. The
surprisingly low cement consumption by the public sector, especially the major
civi:L works is the result of some unusual construction practices in Morocco
such as the almost exclusive use of asphalt instead of cement in road con-
struction. No other survey of sectorial consumption has been carried out
since 1973. It is however estimated that the share of housing in total
consumption has further increased as indicated by the surge in construction
over the last two years. Construction of housing has increased not only in
the major urban areas 1/ where the shortage of accommodations is increasingly
felt as a consequence of a steady urban migration, but also in small towns
and rural areas as a consequence Df the improvement of the economic situation
in these areas.
22.       Statistics of regional consumption are based on the producer's
sales to agents. Detailed consumption data per region are given in the table
below. It indicates that the regional consumption pattern has gradually
improved during the past decade with Casablanca accounting for 47% of domes-
tic cement consumption in 1960 and merely 30% in 1974. The fastest regional
growth during the 1960-74 period occurred in Agadir whereas cement consump-
tion in the Casablanca region increased little during the 1970-74 period.
1/   Some indication is given by the number of authorizations of construc-
tion delivered by the large municipalities which, however, does neither
indicate actual construction after receipt of the authorization nor the
large construction executed without authorization nor construction in
some suburbs and small towns. The official number of authorizations
is increasing at 10 to 15% per annum.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 14
Historic Cement Consumption per Region
(000 tons)
Annual
Growth
Rate
1960-74
REGION              1960   1965   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   % p.a.
Casablanca           252    345    413    518    478    489    569    5.6
Kenitra-Rabat         63      71    165    205    239    252    253    9.7
Mieknes-Fes           65      84    233    260    267    262    300   10.7
Agadir                34     82    121    160    160    174    223   13.7
Tangier-Tetouan       38     47      97    124    134    150    159   10.0
Marrakech             45      59     94    161    171    160    199   10.4
Oriental              43     64    155    154    166    178    206   11.0
Total          540    752  1_,378  1582  1,615  1,665  1,909    8.75
Source:  1960-73 data - Lafarge Sector Study, 1974 - Ministry oL Indlustry
estimate.
23.       The consumption pattern per region at the final consumer level is
probably slightly different than indicated by these sales figures at the
wholesalers level.  Because of the shortage situation , some wholesalers and
transporters from remote regions reportedly fetch cement from wholesalers in
other regions located near a cement plant. Some cement used in the Oriental
region for instance is directly bought from wholesales in Fez aid Meknes.
Such transfers occur for all regions which do not have their own cement
plant. They disrupt the tentative allocation of cement prcduction attempted
by the authorities and the cement producers, and lead to profiteering by
various intermediaries on the black market. They compound the frequent
situations of shortage already much felt without these trarnsfers. The
Governors of several provinces such as Fez and Marrakech have therefore
ordered wholesalers of cement to allocate their sales under the control of
the provincial authorities. As a result of the interregional transfer, the
above data on regional consumption do include some distortions. For a more
realistic assessment the official figures of regional consumption should
probably be increased for some provinces of the interior and deflated for
coastal provinces.
24.       Although cement consumption increased more slowly over the past
decade in the Casablanca area than in other Moroccan regions, the 1973 per
capita consumption was still the highest in the country. The Casablanca
Region consumed 130 kg per capita in 1976 compared to 114 kg per capita
average consumption in Morrocco as shown below.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 15
Regional Cement Consumption & Population: 1974
Cement Consumption         Population        Consumption
000 tons        %     Number        %      kg/per capita
Casablanca              569        29.8        4,388       26.1        130
Kenitra-Rabat            253       13.2        2,182       13.0        116
Meknes-Fes               300       15.7        2,508       14.9        120
Agadir                   223       11.7        1,283        7.6        174
Tangier-Tetouan          159        8.3        1,378        8.2        115
Marrakech                199        10.4       3,222       19.2         62
Oriental                206        10.8        1,838       10.9        112
Total                 1,909       100         16,800       100         114
The above table also illustrates that per capita consumption is below the
national average in those regions in which no cement plant is located
or close by, e.g., Marrakech, and the Oriental Region. This suggests the
possibility of a repressed demand in these regions.
Projected Domestic Demand
1. IIethodology
25.       Cement consumption is determined by the construction activity in
a country. As an isolated long-range estimate of domestic construction is
hardly possible, a number of forecasting techniques have been used which
approximate the cement consumption-construction activity relationships.
These techniques include (i) correlation with macro-economic indicators,
(ii) international comparison of per capital consumption, (iii) extrapolation
and (iv) sectorial analyses.
26.       Correlation with macro-economic indicators:  Since construction
activity is closely related to the overall economic activity of a country,
correlation and regression analyses of cement consumption and various macro-
economic indicators, produce statistically significant results. The tradi-
tionally used indicators are:
a) GCIP or GDP
From a worldwide cross section analysis it results that
in an early development stage cement shows a rather high
consumption elasticity; in other words: in developing
countries growth rates of cement consumption usually
exceed growth rates of GNP considerably. As economic
development continues, the gap between growth rates of
cement consumption and GNP narrows and at a certain point
becomes zero. In highly industrialized countries cement
consumption tends to increase less than proportionally



ANNEX 3-1
Page 16
in relation to GNP; the saturation level depends in the
individual case on a number of different circumstances.
Graphically speaking the typical development of cement
consumption can be characterized by an asymtotic growth
curve; its gradient is usually steep after take off of
economic development and tends to flatten out continuously
toward saturation. On a worldwide basis the following
streamlined elasticity factors between GNP (determining
variable) and cement consumption (dependent variable) have
been estimated:
Elasticity of cement
GNP per capital                consumption per capita
(1973 US$)                 (in relation to GNP growth)
50                               4.0
100                               3.2
200                               2.5
400                                1.9
800                                1.4
1,600                                1.0
3,200                                0.7
The relationship between cement consumption and GDP/GNP
is close to an exponential relationship. For simplicity
reasons, however, many forecasts assume a linear regres-
sion equation. Such an approximation is valid only for
short- and medium-term consumption forecasts and/or for
countries with constant growth patterns.
b)  Gross Fixed Capital Formation
Correlation between cement consumption and gross fixed
capital formation generally show exponential relationships.
The elasticity of cement consumption has been found to
vary in relation to the growth of gross fixed capital
formation in the range 2.5 - 0.8.
27.       International Comparison of Cement Consumption per Capita.  With
countries with similar construction practices cement consumption per capital
evolves closely with the levels of development reached by the countries.
This can be illustrated by comparing the evolution of cement consumption per
capita and GNP per capital for comparable countries over long periods of
time. This comparison has been used also to establish the elasticity of
cement demand to economic growth (see para. 26 a, above).
28.       Extrapolation of Past Consumption is a rather simplistic approach
which cannot give more than an order of magnitude for short- and medium-term
forecasts. It can lead to satisfactory results if (i) applied to stable



ANNEX 3-1
Page 17
economies with constant growth rates and insignificant shifts between sector
activities or (ii) based on a representative reference period and growth
rates, for short-term or average period projections.
29.       Sectorial Analysis.  This method attempts to forecast future demand
by sector on the basis of cement consumption/investment ratios established
for each sector. Particular care is required in establishing these ratios
since they vary from country to country with local construction practices,
price and availability of substitute materials such as bricks, structual
steel, etc. The sectorial analysis has definite advantages in those econo-
mies where (i) insufficient or unreliable statistical data exist to estab-
lish a meaningful relationship between cement consumption and macroeconomic
indicators or (ii) government programs foresee a substantial shift of
investment between sectors which implies changing patterns of cement utili-
zation.
2. Demand Projections
30.       The following paragraphs detail the projections of demand in
MIorocco derived by the Bank as well as in the different market studies on
cement in Morocco. The most significant projections are illustrated on
Chart 1 and summarized in para. 39 of this Annex.
Correlation with GDP
31.       Using linear regression analysis on data over the period 1960-1975,
the following relationship has been found between total cement consumption
(TCC) and GDP (expressed in constant 1960 DH):
2
log TCC = 2.1744 log GDP - 13.4898               R  = 0.988
This relation between logarithms gives a better correlation than a straight
linear relation. It also indicates an elasticity of about 2.2 between total
cement consumption and GDP; this is in line with the elasticity factors of
2.5 - 1.9 between consumption and GNIP observed worldwide for countries with
GNP per capital between $200 and $400 (see para. 22), such as MIorocco. During
the 1968-72 and 1973-76 periods the GDP of Morocco increased respectively by
5.3% and 6.3% per annum while the target of annual growth rate was set at 7.5%
in the Third Development Plan 1973-1977. Targets for the Fourth Development
Plan 1978-82 have not yet been specified. Two estimates of future GDP growth
have therefore been assumed to forecast future cement demand based on the
above regression equation.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 18
Projection I
Average Growth of GDP             Cement Demand
(000 ton)
Case                1975-1980           1978     1980      1982      1985
High              7% per annum         3,400    4,560    5,720    7,460
Low             5.5% per annum         3,030    3,820    4,660    5,920
It is unrealistic to assume that both GDP and cement demand will grow
exponentially in the long term. Therefore for the above projections, the
correlation with GDP has only been applied till 1980, beyond which demand is
assumed to increase linearly at the 1979-80 rate of increase.
32.       This correlation used above being limited to 1960-75 data does not
take into account the jump of 30% of demand in 1976. Its data base also
includes the 1960-1967 period during which the average growth of consumption
was substantially lower than during the 1967-76 period. This correlation may
therefore lead to an underestimation of short-term demand. A similar regres-
sion analysis has therefore been carried out between cement consumption and
GDP on the basis of 1967-76 data including a preliminary estimate of Morocco's
GDP for 1976. The following correlation has been found:
2
log TCC = 2.4725 log GDP - 16.3536           R  = 0.914
With this latest correlation, the latest Bank estimate of GDP growth of
Morocco, i.e., 6.4% per annum, has been used to project demand for 1977-80.
Beyond 1980 a linear increase has been assumed at the 1979-80 rate of in-
crease. This results in demand projections expectedly larger than Projec-
tion I:
Projection II
Average Growth of GDP                       Cement Demand
(000 ton)
1975-80                      1978     1980      1982      1985
6.4% per annum                  3,600    4,960    6,120    8,110
Projection II appears more likely than projection I for the short term as
it takes better into account the recent fast developments which are expected



ANNEX 3-1
Page 19
to continue for a few more years. Beyond 1979-80 on the other hand it is
doubtful that a continuous increase of about 600,000 tpy can be sustained
as indicated by the international comparison (see para. 34).
Correlation with Gross Fixed Capital Formation (GFCF)
33.       Various attempts have been made to correlate cement consumption
with either total GFCF or GFCF of major sectors of the economy. Some rela-
tionship was found between consumption and total GFCF with 1960-73 data but
with a correlation inferior to the one found with GDP. Regression analysis
taking into account in addition 1974-76 GFCF data is even less successful,
as can be expected with the drastic evolution of GFCF during these years
(increase of 130% between 1973 and 1975). Furthermore, official data of GFCF
cannot be considered as a very reliable basis for projections: they do for
example, include purchases of military equipment and they are partly derived
by using some specific ratios, which can be questioned as the spectrum of
investments is changing and private construction in the rural areas (which is
booming) is not adequately covered in construction statistics. Furthermore,
adequate medium-term projections of growth of GFCF are essentially related to
projections of GDP growth and little is therefore added to the reliability of
the projections by taking GFCF instead of GDP as determining factor for the
projections. No projections based on GFCF data have therefore been retained
for the purpose of this market study.
International Comparison of Cement Consumption per Capita
34.       A historical comparison of cement consumption per capita and GNP
per capita of countries with high per capita cement consumption and with fast
growing cement consumption in the Mediterranean, Middle East and East Asian
region over the 1955-75 period is given in Table 1 of this Annex. As indicated
by this comparison the elasticity between cement consmption and GNP ranges
between 1.9 and 2.5 with a GNP per capita between $200 and $400 (expressed in
1973 terms) to decline to 1.4 - 1.9 with a GNP per capita between $400 and
$1100. This is illustrated below with examples of selected countries:
Comparative Data on Growth of Per Capita Consumption and GNP
GNP/Cap.    Cement Cons./Cap   Growth of
End of Period    End of Period   Cement Cons.  GNP
Country        Period       (1973 US$)          (kg)           % p.a.      % p.a.
Morocco       1967-1975        355               129             12.7        5.5
Korea         1965-1973        400              218              21.7      11.0
Yugoslavia   1955-1963         410               169             11.2        6.0
Turkey        1963-1973        600              218              11.6        6.5
Taiwan        1963-1973        660              359              15.4       10.7
Greece        1955-1963        940              270              12.4        5.7



ANNEX 3-1
Page 20
Considering the complete sample of countries at different stages of devel-
opment the evolution of consumption per capita in relation to GNP/capita,
it appears that the historic growth curves of cement consumption vis-a-vis
GNP/capita generally have remained within the following maxima:
Cement Consumption/Capita                 GNP/Capita
(kg)                           (1973 US$).
200                               60
300                              135
400                              210
500                              265
600                              325
800                              390
1,000                              445
This indicates that growth of cement consumption with GNP is the fastest for
GNP/capita between $100 and $600. Beyond $500-600, the growth gradually
diminishes and consumption levels off in the $2000-4000 bracket. A country in
the $100-600 bracket has reached a stage of development where it can afford
maximum investment inI simple but solid housing for most of the population and
basic infrastructure with major civil work components. Bevond the $500-600
GNP/capita stage, the proportion of savings in the family budgets allocated to
housing decreases, and more generally the proportion of the country's in-
creasing wealth allocated to heavy cement-consuming investment decreases
as more investments are increasingly equipment-oriented, such as in industry.
35.       The above worldwide observed maxima have been added to the short-
medium projections of cement demand in Morocco by extrapolating past evolution
of consumption/capita vis-a-vis GNP/capita until reaching and following
thereafter the maximum growth curve. A "high" and a "low" projection have so
been derived: (i) high: extrapolation of 1973-76 the trend up to the maximum
growth curve and assuming population growth at 2.9% p.a. and GNP growth of 7%
and 6% p.a. respectively for 1976-80 and 1980-85; (ii) low: extrapolation of
1967-75 trend and assuming of GNP growth of 5.5% for 1975-85. These forecasts
are as follows:
Projection III
GNP Growth                          Projected Demand
Case                % p.a.                                  (000 tpy)
1976-1980   1980-1985             1978      1980     1982      1985
higr             7            6                 3,570    4,480    5,160    6,440
Low              5.5          5.5               3,100    3,880    4,750    5,520



ANNEX 3-1
Page 21
With the low forecast Morocco's cement consumption per capita would reach in
1980 and 1985 respectively 190 kg (with a GNP/capita of $406) and 240 kg
(GNP/capita of $460). With the high forecast cement consumption per capita
would be 225 kg (GNP/capita of $430) and 280 kg (GNP/capita of $524) respec-
tively in 1980 and 1985.
Extrapolation of Past Consumption
36.        Between 1967 and 1976 the total cement consumption in Morocco
increased at an average rate of 14.5% per annum, with a significant accelera-
tion over 1973-76 during which growth reached a peak of 20% per annum. By
contrast the average growth over the longer period 1960-76 was only 11%.
Similarly the slowdown over 1971-73 as consumption virtually stagnated,
contrasts sharply with the drastic increases over 1973-76. For the last 6
years it is difficult to distinguish clearly the influence of the general
economic slowdown over 1971-73 and of the postpoing of construction decisions
due to the political uncertainty from the effects of an insufficient supply
of cement. In particular, it is difficult to assess the extent of the re-
pressed demand over these years and the exact influence of this possible
repressed demand on the sharp jump over the subsequent years. Extrapolations
of past tendencies cannot therefore indicate anything more than a rough range
within which growth projections for the short term could not be unrealistic,
i.e., between 11% and 15% p.a.
Sectorial Demand
37.       At the beginning of the Third Plan period 1973-77 the Ministry of
Industry carried out a sectorial demand projection on the basis of the in-
vestment targets for the various cement consuming sectors, specified in the
Plan. This projection, however, did not extend beyond the time span of the
Third Plan. This forecast corresponded approximately to an exponential
growth at the average rate of 15% per year starting with the depressed level
of consumption in 1973. Actual consumption for the first four years of the
Plan has systematically exceeded demand forecast by this projection by an
average of 7X. This projection which is detailed in Table 2 of this Annex,
can only be used as an illustration of the methodology. The various invest-
ment targets by sector for the next Development Plan 1978-82, and specific
ratios of cement consumption to investment derived from 1973-76 data will have
to be known before an adequate sectorial demand projection can be prepared.
This work is included in the consulting agreement of the APCM and Whitehead
with StUMC and should provide its first results in the course of 1977.
Other Forecasts
38.       Other forecasts using various methodologies are included in the
different market studies and feasibility studies listed in para. 1. The
forecasts using correlations with GDP (total or for some specific sectors)
or GFCF (total or for some specific investments) and prepared before 1975 are
all, based on observations prior to 1973 or 1974; by excluding the surge in



ANNEX 3-1
Page 22
cement consumption in 1974-76 they generally lead to an underestimation of
future demand. More recent forecasts consist essentially of simple extrapo-
lations of the recent developments and tend on the contrary to be unduly
optimistic: they assume exponential growth of demand at rates between 14%7 and
17% over 1975-85. They basically consider that the high growth rates experi-
enced during the 1974-76 period closely indicate future natural growth rates
of the market in Morocco, assuming that the 1971-73 slowdown was entirely due
to a shortage of supply. Although demand was probably suppressed during that
period, it is unrealistic to attribute slowdown exclusively to inadequate
supply. Moreover, the future consumption per capita corresponding to these
projections, would, even assuming the most optimistic economic development of
Morocco, steadily exceed the record levels experienced worldwide by all
countries at comparable levels of development. These various projections
which are detailed in Table 3 only for illustrative purposes.
Conclusions
39.       Projections I to III detailed in paras. 31 to 35 are compared below:
Average Growth
Projected Demand Rate of Demand
(000 tons)        (% p.a.)
1980    1985   1975-80  1980-85
Projection I: Correlation with GDP 1960-75:
- High    4,560   7,460       14.9    10.8
- Low     3,820   5,920       11.4      9.2
Projection II:  Correlation with GDP 1967-76: 4,960   8,110          17.5    10.3
Projection III: International Comparison:
- High    4,480   6,440       15.0      7.5
- Low     3,790   5,520       11.3      7.8
Projections I "high" and II forecast in the 80's a demand higher than the
forecast of Projection III "high", based on international comparison. These
average growth rates corresponding to the two projections are at the upper
end of the range of growth rates indicated by the extrapolation of past
consumption (para. 36). Projection II in particular appears unlikely while
Projection I "high" appears very optimistic, but not impossible. Morocco's
cement consumption per capita has remained for the last 15 years well below
and would still remain till 1980 below the maximum values experienced by the
international comparison for GNP/capita and cement demand (para. 35); this
represents an accumulated consumption over 20 years well below the pos-
sible maximum, and it could be compensated in the early 1980's by consumption
slightly above the maximum experience value or Projection II "high".



ANNEX 3-1
Page 23
40.       Projection I "low" on the other hand, can be considered as a
minimum forecast. It assumes a conservative growth of GNP; it projects growth
rates of consumption of 9 to 11.5% p.a. which were exceeded in the past; and
the projected consumptions per capita do not reach the international maxima
before 1984-85. Finally, between projections I "high" and III "low", Projec-
tion III "high" which forecasts demand about 10% above Projection I "low"
appears the mostly likely; it forecasts a fast growth till 1980 in line with
the trend of recent years and short-term economic expectation and beyond
1980 it levels off, assuming a moderate growth of GNP and increase of consump-
ticin per capita in line with the international maximum values. In summary,
Projections "low", II "high" and I "high" can be considered respectively
as the minimum, most likely and maximum cases for future supply and demand
comparison.
3. Regional Demand
41.       The best method presently available to estimate the breakdown of
future demand by region is to examine the evolution of apparent sales by
region over the recent past and estimate on that basis the prospective share
of each region in the total national consumption taking into account the
prospects of differential development between regions. The estimated break-
down by region in 1980 is given below in percentage and volume for the most
likely projection of total demand:
Regional Cement Demand - 1980
Region                      (000 tons)          %
Casablanca                    1,320            39.5
Kenitra-Rabat                   560            12.5
Meknes-Fez                      780            17.4
Agadir                          490            11.0
Tangier-Tetouan                 400             9.0
HIarrakech                      450            10.0
Oriental                        460            10.5
TOTAL                   4,480            100
42.       It is currently difficult to assess the possible differences in the
evolution of consumption between regions beyond 1980.  This would require a
good statistical knowledge of historic regional development (not yet available
in Morocco), a breakdown of development targets by region for the 1978-82
Plan (not yet publicized) and a data base on past consumption better than
that provided by apparent sales of the wholesalers. The extent of unrecorded
transfers of cement from regions with their own cement plant to other regions
is not well known. Similarly, the volume of housing construction in rural
areas which expanded recently and is expected to develop significantly in the
future is not recorded. The cement market monitoring system and the detailed
projection of future demand based inter alia on the next development Plan and
including a sectorial approach, will be provided for SNMC; these should lead
to a more realistic projection of future consumption by region.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 24
43.       In the meantime only a qualitative assessment of the growth of
regional consumption is possible.  After a growth of consumption lower than
the national average, the Casablanca region can now be expected to keep at
least the same share in total national consumption as industrial development
is excessively concentrated around Casablanca, and most of the rural urban
migration takes place towards Casablanca. Rabat, Meknes, Fez and Marrakech
are major towns with growing economic activities which should sustain the
growth of cement consumption in their respective regions. Expansion of
construction in the Agadir region is expected to continue f-urther with the
sustained development of tourism around Agadir.
44.       Between 1960 and 1974 (see para. 32) cement consumption in the
Oriental increased at a faster pace than the total consumption of the country
despite the fact that the population of the Oriental increased at 2.3% per
year i.e. more slowly than the total Moroccan population (because of a more
important emigration of workers to Europe and internal migration to the
regions of Casablanca and Rabat). This increase in cement consumption per
capita can be explained by strong construction activities in housing espe-
cially around Nador where a substantial growth of urban population occurred
together with the economic development of the area. In the future, a further
slow growth of population resulting from possible further emigration will be
offset by the economic development of the region. Several factors do guaran-
tee this development as detailed in Annex 7-3: (i) an ambitious investment
plan by the Government including a port and a 1 million tpy steel plant
(SuNASID) 1/ costing an estimated US$1,500 million in Nador, plus the related
infrastructure including a 120 km railway line; (ii) steady development of
agriculture with the equipment of up to 70,000 ha of irrigated land in the
lower Moulouya; (iii) an existing industrial nucleus composed of mines and
agro-industries, and (iv) an active house construction financed by steady
remittances from expatriated workers. It is therefore safe to assume that the
region's share in the national cement consumption would not: drop in the
future. Applying the Oriental's estimated share of 10.5% in the national
market to the forecasts of paras. 39, the following demand forecasts have been
derived:
Projection             Projected Demand in the Oriental
(000 tons)
1980           1985
Minimum                        400             620
M4ost Likely                   460             680
M4aximum                       480             780
1/   SONASID:  Societe Nationale de Siderurgie.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 25
C. DEMAND/SUPPLY BALANJCE
Supply and Demand at the National Level
45.       As indicated in the former sections, three cases can be envisaged
for demand and one for supply, leading to three comparisons of supply and
demand, illustrated in the following table:
Projected Domestic Production/Demand Situation (1978 - 1985)
(000 tons)
1978       1980        1982        1985
Supply                       2,799      4,210       5,180       5,840
Demand:  Low                 3,030       3,820      4,660       5,920
Likely             3,570       4,480       5,160       6,440
High               3,400       4,560       5,720       7,460
Supply/Demand Surplus
(deficit)
Low                 (231)        390         520         (80)
Likely              (771)       (270)         20        (600)
High                (601)       (350)       (540)    (1,620)
These indicate that Morocco will continue to import at least until 1979.
Under the most pessimistic, i.e., the lc0- case of demand growth, supply would
be close to demand with some temporary surpluses but which would not exceed
10% of potential supply. Under the most likely case the continuous deficit
of supply would become significant enough by 1984 as to require additional
production capacity. The theoretical deficit in the 80's would expectedly
be higher under the "high" case but without requiring any major additional
capacity in operating before 1982. Undue haste in constructing new facil-
ities should be therefore avoided, but instead a continuous updating of
detailed market forecasts be encouraged. Practically, a situation as shown
for 1982-85 in the high case is unlikely to materialize as under the pressure
of growing demand additional facilities could be installed in a relatively
short time: an immediate expansion of supply by 200,000 tpy would be possible
by producing also blast furnace cement at CIOR, and not more than 2-3 years
lead time would be necessary to expand the existing 1ieknes plant. Finally
whether the existing Casablanca plant is kept in operation (as assumed in the
supply project here above) or is closed down, will also significantly affect
any decision on building additional facilities. Eventually the decision on
closing the Casablanca plant for environmental considerations should be
determined by a comprehensive economic analysis.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 26
Supply and Demand at the Regional Level
46.       A forecast of the regional supply/demand balance for all regions
of Miorocco for 1978-85 with the most likely demand projection is detailed in
Table 4 of this Annex. A summary is given below for 4 main Northern Regions
within marketing range from CIOR:
Projected Regional Supply/Demand Balance for Northern Regions
(000 tons)
Casablanca   Kenitra-Rabat   Fez-Meknes   Oriental
1980                 1,320            560             780           460
Demand             1,320            560             780           460
Supply               900            480            600           938
Surplus (deficit)      (420)           (80)          (180)          478
1985
Demand             1,900            800          1,130            680
Supply             1,800            540            600         1,173
Surplus (deficit)     (100)           (260)          (530)          507
47.       The combined deficit of the Casablanca and Fez4Ieknes regions would
thereby vary between 500,000 and 700,000 tpy. The balance in the Oriental on
the contrary indicates that under the original CIMA joint venture arrangements
whereby CINA (CIOR's predecessor) was designed to supply its production in
equal shares to Morocco and Algeria, CIMA would have had an adequate market
in the Oriental Region itself starting in 1980. Following the withdrawal of
Algeria from the CIMA joint venture, the full production of the plant has
become available for Morocco. This production would be substantially in
excess of the demand of the Oriental, CIOR's immediate market, till the late
1980's as detailed below:
Projected Supply/Demand Balance in the Oriental :  1978-1990
(000 tons)
1978      1980       1982       1985       1990
Demand                   380       460        540        680        900
Supply                   195       938      1,173      1,173      1,173
Surplus                 (185)      478        627        493        273



ANNEX 3-1
Page 27
On the other hand without the extra half of CIOR's production (included
in the new supply projections), Morocco would be faced with a prospective
deficit by 400-600,000 tpy larger than that indicated in para. 45 above.
Furthermore at the time of the dissolution of the CIMA joint venture, cons-
truction at the plant site and manufacture of the equipment were already
quite advanced; this would have resulted in substantial sunk costs and heavy
penalties to be paid to equipment suppliers if it had been decided to reduce
the project to half its original size. The other solution, of using half
of CIMA's equipment for another plant in another part of the country would
have implied additional delays in the expansion of the domestic cement pro-
duction, without real economic advantages, as detailed in Annex 7-1. Con-
sidering the long lead time for preparing and construction of new cement
plants, and the prospective cement deficit in the other Northern regions, the
Moroccan authorities have decided to continue the CIMA-CIOR project according
to its original design. During the 1980-90 period CIOR is then expected to
send the production not absorbed in the Oriental to the Casablanca and Fez
areas to which it is well connected by the Oujda-Casablanca railway line.
Under this scheme CIOR's sales outside the Oriental would peak in the early
1980's to decrease gradually as the cement market expands in the Oriental.
The transport and distribution aspects outside and within the Oriental region
are detailed in Annexes 3-2 and 3-3.
Industrial Projects Deparment
December 1976



ANNEX 3-1
Page 28
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 1
CEMENT CONSUMPTION VERSUS GNP
FOR SELECTED COUNTRIES WITH FAST-GROWING CEMENT CONSUMPTION
Cement        GNP/Cap.         Av. Increase        Av. Increase
Con/cap.       Cost US$           Tot. GNP          Tot. Cement
Countries       Years           kg            1973              % p.a.           Cons. % p.a.
Morocco         1967            61             270
1975          129              344              5.5                 12.7
Algeria         1967            54             414
1975          197              593              8.0                 21.6
Iran            1955           11              256
1964           43             449               9.3                 20
1974          158              967             11.4                 17.7
Syria           1963           139             323
1972          199             414               6.2                  7.5
Turkey          1955            59             312
1963           94             410               6.3                  8.8
1973          218              600              6.5                 11.6
Korea(s)        1965            52             202
1973          218             400              11.                  21.7
Taiwan          1955            75             241
1963          113              315              7.0                  8.9
1973          359              660             10.7                 15.4
Yugoslavia      1955            72             312
1963          169             410               6.0                 11.2
1973          343              600              4.7                  8.4
Greece          1955           113             645
1963          270              940              5.7                 12.4
1973          681            1870               7.8                 14.5
Spain           1955           128             684
1964          306            1041               5.8                 11.2
1974          630            1774               6.5                  9.5
Lebanon         1950           179             575
1963          361              657              3.6                  8.2
1973          428              940              6.4                  4.4
Portugal        1955            77             459
1963          139              672              4.9                  8.3
1973          368            1410               7.4                  9.7
Cyprus          1955           210             697
1963          312              818              3.4                  6.5
1969          458            1200               7.8                  9.8
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 3-1
Page 29
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 2
SECTORIAL PROJECTION OF CEMENT DEMAND - THIRD PLAN (1973-77)
The Third Development Plan has specified certain investment targets
for the various cement consuming sectors. On the basis of these targets,
the CIH derived the following cement demand projection by sector for the
Plan period 1973-1977:
(a)  Housing:  The Third Plan foresees the building of some 389,000
dwelTlings. Assuming a percentage of realization of 90% (350,000
dwellings) with an average of 9 ton of cement per dwelling, the
demand would be about 3,150,000 tons.
(b)  Industry: The Third Plan has foreseen investments of 6,826
million DHV creating some 120,000 more jobs. With a cement
consumption in corresponding civil works of 12 to 13 ton of
cement per job, total deniand would be some 1,500,000 tons.
(c)  Dams: The completion of one dam under construction, the
building of 4 more dams and major repairs on existing
works would require some 200,000 tons.
(d)  Other Public Works:  Some 800 million DHi/were foreseen for
equipment and buildings _n tourism. With a share of 11.2%
for cement in the total cost, the cement demand would reach
900,000 tons.
(e)  Education:  The investmeut in buildings for education has
been set at 1040 million DHI/. Through a similar derivation
as in tourism, the demena demand is estimated at 1,150,000
tons.
(f)  Health:  Buildings planned for 158 million DH.iin the health
sector would require some 180,000 tons of cement.
(g)  Other Public Buildings: Some 620 million DH would be invested
in miscellaneous buildings (Justice, uulture, Sports, Radio-
Television, and Special Education) requiring about 650,000
tons of cement.
(h)  Other Sectors: Cement consumption in investment in Transport,
Trade, Xilitary installations has been estimated at 5% of the
total consumption i.e. 604,000 tons.
(i)  Maintenance of Existing Work: Cement requirements for maintenance,
repairs and improvement of all existing works have been astimated
at 20% of the grand total, i.e., 2,410,000 tons.
Total Demand would amount to 12,080,000 tons. Assuming a 90% realization of the
targets, the estimated consumption would be 10,872,000 tons, spread as follows
(in 1,000 tons):
1973      19/4       1975       1976       1977
Annual Consumption        1,624      1,867      2,147      2,469      2,840
On an exponential basis the growth rate would be 15% per year.  From 1973
to 1976 consumption actually exceeded these forecasts.
1/   In 1973 terms.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 3
MISCELLANEOUS CEMENT DEMAND PROJECTIONS
FORECAST AND  EtrHOD                                                                                                                                         BASIC DEMAND                                PROJECTED DEMAD
('000 ton)
1974         197?           1980
1.   LaFarge - Sector Correlation (1979)
Total Consumption = Consumption of Building and Public Works Sector (CCC) + Consumption of Rural Construction (CCD)                                  GDPB Growth: 11%. p.a.                   -          2,259           2,970
CDPA Growth: 3.8h p.a.
with:  CCC = -184,931 + 12,555 X GDPB    r2 _ 0.935    (1959-73 time series)
and CCD = -595,643 + 3,425 x GDPA           r2 = 0.896
where GDPB and GDPA are respectively the part of Building and Public Works and Agriculture in the GDP (1960 terms)
2.   LaFarge - Multicorrelation with Macro-Economic Indicators (1973)
Total Consumption - 1,042, 237 - 7,575 x P - 0,644a + 76,066b + 2,033 x PIB    Coefficient of multiple cond:  0.983                                  PIB Growth: 6.57,                        _          2,529           3,357
GDPA Growth: 3.87. p.a.
with PIB = Production Interieure Brute = GDP - Government wages (1960 terms)  (1959-73 time series)                                            GDPB Growth:  11% p.a.
Populel:on Growth: 2.9X p.a.
P - Population
a and b are respectively the % of Agriculture and Buildings and Public Works in PIB
3.   Withehead - Multicorrelation with Cross Fixed Capital Formation (CFCP) (1936)
Total Consumption = 17.23 x GCFB + 6.3 x GCFE - 341    (1964-72 time series)                                                             Low Case:  GCFB Growth: 9.5%                       1,993         2,718          3,660
GCPE Growth: 10.0%
with  .CFB - GFCF in Bsilding (1972 DO)                                                                                         Medium Case:  GCPB Growth: 13%                         2,123        3,147           4,602
GCPE Growth: 14.5%
GCFE - GFCF in Equipment (1972 DU)
4.   LaFarge - Extrapolation of historic ReRional Consumption (1973)
Total National Consumption = Sum of Projected Regional Consumptions                                                                                                                          1,930        2,740          3,570
Projected Regional Consumption Derived by Exponential Extrapolation
5. CIB - Secterial Demeand (1934)
90% Implementation of Plan Targets                    1,867         2,840
Based on Breakdown of Demand by Sector and Investment Targets by Sector Specified in Third Development Plan (1973-77):
Detailed in Table 3 of this Annex.                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



ANNEX 3-1
Page 31
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 4
PROJECTED REGIONAL DEMAND/SUPPLY COMPARISON 1978-1985
('000 tons)
1978         1980            1982                1985
1.    Casablanca Region
Demand              1,060        1,320            1,520               1,900
Supply                 900          900           1,lj0               1,800
Surplus (Deficit)       (160)        (420)            (370)              (100)
2.    Ke-nitra-Rabat Region
Demand               440            560             650                 800
Supply                             480              540                 540
Surplus (Deficit)      (440)          (80)            (100)              (250)
3.    Fez-Meknes Region
'Demand              620            780             900               1,130
Supply               600            600             600                 600
Surplus (Deficit)       (20)         (180)            (300)              (530)
4.    oriental
Demand               380           460              540                 680
Supply               195            938           1,173               1,173
Surplus (Deficit)    (185)            478             633                 493
5.    Northern Region
Demand               320           410              460                 580
Supply               313           465              465                 465
Surplus (Deficit)        (7)           55                5               (115)
6.    Marrakesh
Demand               360            450             520                 640
Supply               425            450             450                 450
Surplus (Deficit)        65            -               (70)               (90)
7.    Agadir
Demand                390           500             570                 710
Supply               366            380             800                 800
Surplus (Deficit)       (24)         (120)            230                  90
TOTAL MOROCCO
Demnand               3,570         4,480           5,160               6,440
Sulpply        4      2213                          5,178
Surplus (Deficit)             (771)       (267)               18                (612)
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



ANNEX 3-1
Page 32
Chart I
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PRIOJECT
HISTORICAL CEMENT CONSUMPTION 1967-76 AND PROJECTED DEMAND 1976-85
7
Projected Demana I
Correiation with GDP-Hiah                               /
Projected Demand I                                            /
Correla.ion with GDP-Low                                     /
P ojected Demand I I
International Comparison-dign r                         /
4~~~~~~~~~~~
Projected Demand III
Internation Comparison -Low
Actua, Consumption
|   t   I   I    l      9       I      t       t      l       L       I      LI  I   IlI
1967    68      69     70      7       72     73      74      75     76      77      78     79      s0     81      82      33     84      85
Year
Industrsai Pro'ec:; Departnient
Cecernber I 976
World Ban.- '6784



AINEX 3-2
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
CEiAENT DISTRIBUTION AND PRICING IN MOROCCO
A.   CEMENT DISTRIBUTION IN M1OROCCO
Introduction
1.        The MIoroccan cement market is characterized by two basic factors:
(i) an oligopolistic situation with a large number of small individual con-
sumers supplied Dv few producers and; (ii) since 1971, demand exceeding
supply. In this environment the cement producers tend to consider themselves
primarily as production companies and leave the marketing function to out-
siders. A cement producer typically sells all his production to independent
wholesalers who, in turn, sell to retailers and sometimes directly to large
users.  With this trading pattern the cement companies have no influence on
prices at the consumer level, no credit facilities, neither means of trans-
portation nor distribution outlets of their own, and as a result little
market transparency. The different steps in the cement trading are described
lereafter.
Wholesalers
2.        While wholesalers called "agents" are independent outfits not
bound to the cement producers by any legal ties, each cement producer has,
in fact, selected his own agents according to specific conditions of finan-
cial standing, experience and importance in construction materials trading.
Cement is regularly not the only and often not the most important commodity
the wholesaler is dealing with. The sale of cement usually complements a
range of many diversified activities not necessarily restricted to building
materials. The classes of wholesalers can be distinguished:
(i)  the "comptoirs", privileged agents, with the largest
turnover and which distribute about 55% of all cement
consumed in Morocco. The Casablanca and Tangier plant
for instance had in 1974 respectively 8 and 5 of these
comptoirs, those of Lafarge selling an average of
60,000 tons of cement per year against 5,000 tons by
those of Tangier. Having a solid financial standing,
these agents can grant credit facilities (one-month
credit for large contractors and even more for the
administration) and thereby handle all the big business.
(ii) the other agents with a small turnover, selling to a
relatively large number of heterogeneous and mostly
private customers. The Casablanca and the Tangier
plants had in 1974 respectively 25 and 19 of these
agents.



ANNEX 3-2
Page 2
3.        Wholesalers seldom carry stocks or transport cement by their own
means; often they just issue a voucher with which the customer goes toi pick
up cement directly at the plant. Most plants request advance or cash payment
from the wholesaler. The latter hardly carries out any sales promotion or
other marketing activities. The annual turnover varies by agent between 1,000
and 60,000 tons.
Retailers
4.        The commercial activities of retailers are generally diversified;
the sale of cement often complements trading or other commodities. Their
turnover varies much with the retailers, reaching sometimes 3,000 tons per
month. Retailers are very flexible for their source of supply as they deal
with different agents, sometimes remotely located. They carry little stocks.
Some do have their own means of transportation as they try to realize addi-
tional gains on transport.  Because of their usually weak financial standings,
which do not allow them to grant credit facilities, the retailer can seldom
deal with the administration: their trade is generally limited to customers
from the private sector.
Transport and Physical Distribution
5.        Transport is done essentially by road and rail with only minor
quantities shipped by coastal vessels along the Mediterranean coast.  Rail
shipments which in 1973 accounted for about 17% of total ex-factory shipment
are limited to the main Casablanca-Meknes-Fez-Oujda and Casablanca-Mlarrakech
axis. I4ainly the Oriental region which is presently supplied by the Meknes
plant about 400 km away receives larger quantities of cement by rail: about
80%/ of the recorded ex-factory shipments to this region are done by rail.
The tariffs of the state-owned railway company ONCF for cement transport
amounted, end of 1976, to a base charge of 3.48 DH/ton plus a charge of
0.073 DH/tkm. No discounts are granted on ONCF tariffs for regular shipments
or transport in unit trains.
6.        Road transport in Morocco is closely regulated between:  (i) the
official transport organization ONT 2/; (ii) private carriers; and (iii) pri-
vate vehicles belonging to companies or individuals whose official business is
other than transport. ONT does not run a fleet of its owrn but functions as an
intermediary for private carriers organized in cooperatives: ONT controls the
licenses and assigns cargoes determining freight rates, arid issues and collects
the bills for the services rendered by these carriers. Theoretically, ONT has
a quasi-monopoly for general long distance bulk transport as all trucks with a
capacity exceeding 5.5 tons are required to operate under ONT except if they
are used by non-transport companies to carry their own goods.
1/   ONCF:  Office National des Chemins de Fer
2/   ONT:  Office National des Transports.



ANNEX 3-2
Page 3
7.        The major part of the private transport sector consists of private
carriers (companies or even individuals) which own trucks of less than 5.5
tons capacity and which are therefore not subject to ONT regulations. The
other part consists of enterprises engaged in other activities than in trans-
port, which own trucks of a capacity above 5.5 tons and are not subject
to ONT control provided they use their trucks only for their own transport
needs. Practically, however, "illegal" transportation of all sorts of commodi-
ties for third parties in the large trucks or in the small trucks of the
professional transporters, overloaded beyond the 5.5 limit, is reportedly
more important than the "legal" movement of goods.
8.        in 1973, about 76% of all ex-factory shipments of cement were
transported by private vehicles, versus 7% only by ONT. The latter has
a crude non-competitive tariff structure sometimes up to 40% higher than
transport prices of the private sector. On back hauls, private companies
offer prices as low as 0.06 DH/tkm, and are thereby competitive with the
railways. The following table compares cement freight charges between ONT and
ONCF on the basis of the normal 1975 tariffs.
Morocco-Cement Freight Charges
Distance              ONCF Tariff          ONT Tariff
(km)                  (DH/ton)            (DH/ton)
20                      4.94                4.14
50                      7.13                7.76
100                     10.78               14.02
150                     14.43               20.14
200                     18.08               26.07
300                     25.38               37.34
Quantity discounts of some 30% on these normal ONT tariffs could be nego-
tiated for customers with big transportation volumes.
9.        The major demand being for bagged cement, most shipments are done
in 50 kg bags. Deliveries of cement in bulk amounts to about 8% of the total
and are generally confined to shipments from the Casablanca plant to big
construction sites and ready mix concrete installations.
10.       Within the shipment pattern described here above some variations
can be found. Some private truck operators do not only act as transporters
but also as traders: they purchase cement from the plant through agents
and resell to retailers or directly to contractors. The cement producers
themselves do not own trucks except the Tetovan plant which ships about 10,000
tpy in its own vehicles. Some agents do have their own trucks with which they
fetch the cement at the plant or at the railway station and deliver to their



AiNEX 3-2
Page 4
customers. Similarly, some retailers use their own vehicles to get the
cement from the agent and dispatch it to the consumers. In the complete
transport process from the plant down to the final user, all kinds of com-
bination rail and truck, ONT or private carriers, trucks belonging to carriers
or to the cement traders themselves, can be found. However, the private means
generally dominate the transport activities.
Imports
11.       Till 1975 cement imports were handled by the cement producers
themselves who then disposed of the imported cement through the normal dis-
tribution channels. The Ministry of Industry and Commerce did exercise some
control, through consultations with the producers and authorization of imports,
but the whole import process was far from satisfactory, namely with regard to
timing, quantities imported compared to actual needs, and costs. With the
major increase of imports in 1976, the authorities decided to streamline the
import procedures by creating a special state agency SOREStA 1/ as the sole
cement importer.
12.       SORESMA was initially set up by another state agency OCE 2/ but is
now an autonomous agency directly controlled by the Ministry of Industry and
Comnerce. It operates by calling international bids for the supply of large
quantities of cement (100,000 tons or more), enters contracts with suppliers
generally for C&F deliveries, controls all unloading operations, customs
clearance and storage at port, and sells from the port warehouses to the
private distribution channels. Imports are presently handled, mostly through
the port of Casablanca and to a lesser extent, through the secondary ports of
Kenitra, Safi, Tangier, Mellila and Al Hoceima. As a further improvement
SORESMA is planning to import cement in bulk, which is cheaper than bagged
cement, because of lower transport and handling costs, and subsequent savings
in cost of bags (6-ply bags are required for overseas shipments while 3-ply
bags are adequate for domestic distribution). To this effect SORESMA is
planning to construct in 1977 a special terminal at the port of Casablanca
equipped with bagging and dispatch facilities, capable of handling 250,000 tpy
of bulk cement.
B.   CEhENT PRICING
The Past
13.       When Morocco became independent the cement pricing system was not
changed. Under this system no control existed on retail and wholesale prices.
The authorities only regulated the ex-factory prices by fixing an individual
price-ceiling for each producer and for each quality of cement.
1/   SORESM4A:  Societe pour la Promotion des Echanges Commerciaux.
2/   OCE:  Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation.



ANNEX 3-2
Page 5
14.       Ex-factory prices were virtually frozen from 1958 until 1975
except for small increases of the costs of bags and of the tax "Taxe sur
produits et services" (TPS), which increased from 12 to 15% in 1970. The
following table details the ex-factory price ("gate" prices) including taxes
for bagged cement in 1974.
M4orocco: Ex-Factory Price of Bagged Cement - 1974
(DH/ton)
Plant                    Quality 250/315 /1       Quality 20/25 /2
Casablanca                      97.72                  90.17
MIeknes                        103.36                  96.31
Agadir                         122.57                 115.63
Tetouan                        110.42                 104.08
Tangier                        110.40                  94.30
/1   Ordinary Portland Cement, normal quality
/2   Low quality cement including 25% limestone additives.
These prices, averaging US$24/ton excluding taxes for bagged cement, were sub-
stantially lower than the corresponding prices in Europe which at that time,
ranged between US$27 and US$34 per ton. With this regulated price set as a
ceiling, some plants have sold according to a schedule of regionalized prices,
i.e. decreasing with the distance of shipments: the Tetouan plant for instance
sold the 250/315 cement at the official price of 110.42 DH/ton in Tetouan but
at 92 DH/ton for some customers in Nador. The Casablanca and Meknes plants
have sometimes granted rebates of about 3 DH/ton to some of their agents.
Major differences in regionalized prices or large rebates to agents did how-
ever not prevail. In most cases the final consumers located in remote regions
had to pay much higher prices than those located near a plant because of the
large transport costs, which add up to the ex-factory costs and distribution
margins of wholesalers and retailers.
15.       In the early sixties, the cement plants were quite profitable and
high profits were realized by the owners. In 1967/1968, net profit after taxes
for the Agadir and Casablanca plants ranged respectively from 10.9% and 7.2%
of turnover or 11% and 10% of equity which represents adequate margins for the
cement industry. In the seventies, the cement producers became increasingly
dissatisfied with prices which covered actual production costs, but did not
earn an adequate return on investment. In order to maintain profits the
producers maximized volumes by expanding their production of the low 20/25
quality obtained by adding up to 25% inert additives to the clinkers. As the
market did accept this quality rather reluctantly, the producers pressured
their agents by requiring quotas of 20/25 ton deliveries of normal 250/315
cement. The lIeknes plant, for instance, reportedly imposed the low quality
cement for 50% of its shipments to its agents.



ANNEX 3-2
Page 6
16.       The freezing of ex-factory prices which had become among the lowest
in the world did not benefit the final consumer. For the last ten years,
wholesale and retail prices which were not controlled increased with the
transport costs and the margin of the intermediaries became quite substantial
under the shortage situation. Agents and retailers generally had fully
liberty to set their sale price according to their transport and storage
costs, market conditions and a profit margin as high as the market would bear.
While at the national level a shortage occurred because of insufficient
production capacity and of imports, situation of artificial shortage at the
local level also resulted from an inadequate distribution.
17.       As a result, local authorities in the provinces of Casablanca
and Fez started in 1974/75 to control the profit margins of the agents.
The following table details the structure of sales prices of some retailers
in the Oriental as established by a market survey carried out by ODI/Maghreb
Consult at the end of 1974:
Morocco: Structure of Cement Sales Prices - 1974
Prices Including Taxes
Margin of
Location of   Source of   Approximate   Ex-factory   Transport   Agent and   Retail
Retailers      Supply        Distance       Price         Cost /a   Retailer    Price
(km)       (DH/ton)       (DH/ton)    (DH/ton)   (DH/ton)
Midar          Tetouan          220            104           46 /b        25         175
Nador          Meknes           400            103           40.5         26.5       170
Berkane        Meknes           480            106.5         39.3         17.2       163
Taourir        Meknes           300            105           17.0          8.0       140
Guercif        Meknes           250            105           23.5         11.5       140
Oujda          Meknes           420            105.2         33.8         11.7       150.7
/a   Includes all handling cost.
/b   Includes transport by sea between Tetouan and Al Hoceima.
In the above, the combined margin of the retailer and the agent varies between
6% and 14% of the retail prices, but is reported to reach sometimes 20%.
The share of the agent in this margin is generally much higher than the share
of the retailer. In addition, some agents increase their profits by carrying
out themselves transport functions on which they can achieve substantial and
sometimes exaggerated profits. Transport costs in the above table vary
much according to type and ownership of the transportation means, and the
number of handling operations.
2.   Recent Developments
18.       Recently, Cement producers approached the Government and asked for
an increase of about 50% over the existing ex-factory prices. The sponsors



ANNEX 3-2
Page 7
of the new ASMAR plant, which started production by mid-1976, were also re-
questing for their plant ex-factory prices higher than the existing ones.
Rising costs of cement imports have made the authorities aware that changes in
the price levels may be required. The cost of bagged cement imported from
Spain reached at the end of 1975 the level of US$40.0 per ton C&F. The result-
ing "shadow" price ex-port Casablanca including insurance and all port charges
but excluding import duties amounted to 223 DH/ton of bagged cement of the
250/315 quality, compared with the 90 DH/ton ex-factory price before taxes of
the Casablanca plant. As done previously with many other products, a price
differential of 133 DH/ton was paid to the cement importer by the "Caisse de
compensation" to equalize the price of imported cement with the one of domestic
cement. The "Caisse de compensation" is an equalization scheme managed by the
Ministry of Economic Affairs and used to compensate price differentials of
various essential goods of which import prices differ substantially from
domestic production prices, i.e.. petrochemicals, sugar, and other foodstuff.
This compensation scheme had in the past some revenues when some imports were
cheaper than domestic production, but has become completely dependent on
inflow of funds from the budget.
19.       In May 1975, the authorities decided to bring the ex-factory price
of the two largest and oldest producers, Casablanca and Meknes, in line with
the other ex-factory prices by increasing them respectively by 10 and 8
DH/ton. These increments were not additional benefits to the producers but
are levied as a revenue for the "caisse de compensation." Simultaneously,
the margins of the wholesalers and retailers were set respectively at 6
and 10 DH/ton of bagged cement. The margin for the bulk cement, which is
traded directly by wholesalers, was set at 6 DH/ton. The transport costs
which are not included in these margins, are added separately to the total
ex-factory price plus margins to determine the retail prices. These transport
costs have to be justified to the authorities on the basis of the cheapest
tariffs. The following table details the resulting ex-factory prices and whole-
sale and retail prices before transport costs:



ANNEX 3-2
Page 8
Morocco: 1975 Cement Prices
(DH/ton)
Ex-Factory   Ex-Factory
Price       Price       Wholesale Price   Retail Price
Plant     Type of Cement  Before Tax  incl.15% Tax excl. Transport  Excl. Transport
Agadir    250/315 bagged       110        126.50           132.50             142.50
20/25  bagged      105         120.75          126.75             136.75
250/315 bulk        100         115.00                             121.00
Casa-
blanca   250/315 bagged       100        115.00          221.00              131.00
20/25  bagged       93         106.95          112.95             122.95
250/315 bulk         87         100.05                             106.95
lieknes    250/315 bagged      100         115.00          131.00             131.00
20/25  bagged       93         106.95          112.95             122.95
250/315 bulk         87         100.05                             106.95
Tangier   250/315 bagged       100         115.00          131.00             131.00
20/25  bagged       97         111.55          117.55             127.55
Tetouan   250/315 bagged       100         115.00          131.00             131.00
20/25  bagged       95         109.25          115.25             125.25
20.       In the framework of the investment convention signed with AS}AR, the
authorities fixed the plant's average ex-factory price for bagged cement at
108 DH/ton (before tax) during the first three years of the plants' operation
(1976-1978), and 112 DH/ton thereafter. In addition, the authorities promised
to pay to the company cash subsidies of DR 10 million during each of the first
two years of operation and DH 5 million during the third year.
21.       The following further increases of world cement prices and rapid
cement consumption growth which necessitated additional imports (see Annex
3.1), in May 1976 additional price increases with the following resulting
prices were decided:



ANNEX 3-2
Page 9
MIorocco: 1976 Cement Prices
(DH/ton)
Ex-Factory   Ex-Factory
Price        Price       Wholesale Price   Retail Price
Plant      Type of Cement  Before Tax  incl.15% Tax excl. Transport  Excl. Transport
Agadir    250/315 bagged        133.00      152.95           158.95              168.95
20/25  bagged       123.00      141.45           147.45              157.45
250/315 bulk         120.00      138.00           144.00              144.00
Casa-
blanca   250/315 bagged        126.10      145.0            151.01              161.01
20/25  bagged       116.10      133.5            139.50              149.50
250/315 bulk         114.10      131.21           137.21              137.21
400    bulk         117.10      134.66           140.66              140.66
2leknes    250/315 bagged       126.1       145.01           151.0               161.01
20/25  bagged       116.1       133.5            139.5              149.5
250/315 bulk         114.1       131.2            137.2               137.21
400    bulk         117.1       134.66           140.66              140.66
Tangier   250/315 bagged        126.25      145.18           151.18              167.80
250/25 bagged       116.25      133.68           139.68              149.68
Asrmar     250/315 bagged       132.0       151.80           157.80              167.80
250/25 bagged       122.0       140.30           146.30             156.30
250/315 bulk         119.00      136.85           142.85              142.85
22.       The above ex factory price still includes for all plants except the
new Asmar plant an amount of 10-15 DH/ton levied for the compensation scheme,
which was extensively used during 1976 with the large cement imports. After
the large increases over 1973-75, the cost of imported cement eased off in
1976, varying between $32.5 and $39.80/ton C&F for bagged cement from Spain.
The corresponding landed cost of imported cement in the second half of 1976,
was about DH 210/ton (US$46.7) consisting of:



ANNEX 3-2
Page 10
Morocco: 1976 Cost of Cement Imports
DH/ton               US$/ton
C&F Price                     179.1                39.8
Insurance                       2.7                 0.6
Port Charges                   24                   5.3
205.8                45.7
Custom Duties (38.76%)         79.8                17.7
285.6                63.4
SORESMA Import Fee (1.5%)       4.3                 1.0
TOTAL    289.9                 64.4
Less - Custom Duties          (79.8)              (17.7)
TOTAL    210.0                 46.7
23.       The cost of imported cement is expected to increase by at least 10%
in 1977.  At the same time the Government intends to remove most of the sub-
sidy on fuel oil, which will increase the operating cost of the domestic
plants. Simultaneously the share of new facilities in total domestic produc-
tion will increase substantially as expansions of existing plants and the new
ASMAR plant step up their production. To cope with the resulting increase in
cost of total imported and domestic cement, the authorities are expected to
increase the average ex-factory price from DH 125/ton to about DH 165/ton in
early 1977.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



ANNEX 3-3
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSPORT OF CIOR PRODUCTION
1.   Introduction
1.        CIOR has been established primarily as a cement production company
but by its statutes it is also entitled to transport and trade any building
material. Wfithin this wide scope and in the framework of existing cement
distibution patterns as detailed in Annex 3-2, CIOR's prospective distribution
activities are essentially envisaged only as a necessary complement to the
Company's primary activity of production. CIOR's distribution activities
can be differentiated regionally and time-wise in two parts: (i) distribution
in the Oriental Region, the "natural" market, during the whole life of the
plant, and (ii) distribution in other regions of MIorocco of the production
in excess of the consumption of the Oriental Region until demand in this
market will have grown enough to absorb the plant's entire output.
2.   Proposed CIOR Distribution Activities
2.        CIOR's being the sole producer in the Oriental Region its market
environment and the distribution organization required in that region will
not drastically differ from those of existing cement producers. On the
contrary, with regard to sales outside the Oriental CIOR's position will
be different: for a period of 10 to 12 years the Company will have to sell
substantial amounts of cement in markets located 300 to 600 km from the
plant. Those sales outside the Oriental will vary in time, with a peak of
about 600,000 tpy in 1982, and declining thereafter as demand expands in
the Oriental Region. As these sales represent in the initial years a large
proportion of CIOR's overall sales, the Company's viability will depend
substantially on the efficiency of CIOR's system of transport and distribution
in these remote regions. Ideally, such system would consist of regular
shipments in unit trains from the plant to distribution terminals centrally
located in the remote markets and equipped with complete dispatching facili-
ties, comparable to a plant selling at its gate to the surrounding markets.
On the other hand the timespan of CIOR's sales in certain market areas may be
too short to justify investments in fixed installations required by an ideal
transport distribution system. Therefore an optimum should be found, recon-
ciling the sophistication and investment costs of an ideal system with the
expected life of operation of the installation.
3.        The estimated breakdown of CIOR's sales by region is detailed
below:



ANNEX 3-3
Page 2
CIOR's Projected Sales by Region 1980-1990
(000 tons)
1980    1982    1985    1990
Oriental Region                 460      540     680      900
Fez Region                      178      303     533      273
Casablanca Region               300      330      60       -
Total                     938   1,173   1,173   1,173
As indicated, in the early 80's CIOR would sell increasing volumes in the
Fez area, and 100,000 to 300,000 tpy in the Casablanca area where cement
deficits would be substantial until the new SNMC plant starts production
by around 1982. As this plant would gradually build up its production,
CIOR's sales outside the Oriental would decrease around Casablanca and in-
stead concentrate in the Fez area. The construction of separate distribution
facilities by CIOR in the Casablanca area therefore does not appear advisable,
because of the limited number of years of sales and the existence there of the
old Casablanca plant plus the new SNMC plant and the planned SORESMA terminal,
each with dispatch facilities from which CIOR could benefit. The Fez area on
the contrary is the only large urban area (the fourth largest in the country
with about 400,000 urban inhabitants) in Morocco which does not and will not
have in the near future its own cement plant, and where recent cement short-
ages have particularly been acute. As CIOR sales in this area would be
substantial for at least 10 years, the installation of a distribution terminal
near Fez appears justified.
4.        The above sales projections are preliminary, as they are based
on regional demand projections derived by applying the percentage of apparent
consumption per region in total apparent consumption observed over the recent
years, to the "most likely" projection of national demand. Actual sales
may therefore differ from these projections, for example because of a dif-
ferential future evolution of demand by regions. Delays in implementation
and change in scope of planned cement production capacity and possible closing
of old facilities may also alter the supply pattern from what has been assumed
above. Additional distribution studies planned for setting up CIOR's distri-
bution system will therefore take into account the updated market projections
to be undertaken in the framework of the SNMC market monitoring system, inter
alia on a sectoral and more specific regional basis. Simultaneously these
studies will include consultations with existing cement producers and sponsors
of new projects to update regional supply projections, and in particular
discussions with SNMC and SORESMA on the possibility of having them distribute
cement from CIOR in the Casablanca area. These studies will help specify the
capacity of the Fez terminal and decide on whether or not to build distribu-
tion installations in Casablanca or other areas.
5.        The extent of CIOR's activities beyond the gate of the distribution
tertminals (substituting for the plant in distant market areas) or of the main
plant near Oujda, could be anywhere between two extremes: at one extreme
the very limited "sale at the gate of the plant" activity of all Moroccan



ANNEX 3-3
Page 3
producers for the moment; at the other a completely integrated distribution
down to the village retailers. A distribution study was carried out at the
end of 1974 by ODI to evaluate the best alternatives between the two extremes.
This study included a survey of existing cement distribution channels in the
Oriental region with their pricing and transport aspects, a proposal of
activities of CGiAC (the commercial organization envisaged to distribute
CIMA's production in Mlorocco), a financial comparison of alternative transport
schemes, and proposals of a marketing and pricing strategy. CGMA carried
further the study of transport and pricing aspects , and made preliminary
estimates of CI14AC financing requirements and financial projections. Con-
clusions reached by these studies were provisional as they were based on the
existing situation which could well change by the time CIOR starts production.
The additional distribution studies mentioned above which will also cover the
distribution function beyond the factory or terminal gate, will finalize the
recommendations of these previous ODI-CINA studies before implementation of
CIOR's commercial organization. The conclusions of the previous studies are
detailed below.
6.        Despite some shortcomings of the existing agent-retailer distri-
bution scheme described in Annex 3-2, it is not advisable for CIOR to reject
completely these channels and establish in parallel its own new and competing
fully integrated distribution network. In the context of Morocco's economic
structure, the agents/retailers represent a significant group of traders
which have the merit and the advantage of distributing all sorts of other
construction materials - activity which is not foreseen to be carried out by
CIOR. Creating its own wholesaler/retailer network could be a risky operation
under severe competition and require a heavy financial and organizational
structure. At the other extreme the present "laisser faire" attitude of the
existing cement producers is not the solution for CIOR as: (i) better tran-
sport, storage and pricing arrangements are required to give the benefit of
low and stable prices to the final consumer; (ii) an aggressive marketing
strategy could help CIOR's turnover and improve its financial situation by
increased production in case the cement demand in the Oriental and prospective
market areas would not develop as fast as anticipated.
7.        It is therefore proposed that CIOR would use existing distribution
channels but develop in its contacts with these channels a new marketing
approach with better transport and delivery arrangements. CIOR would leave
al'l dealings with retailers to the wholesalers, thereby leaving most of the
transport to these intermediaries and private transporters. CIOR would
deal with existing and new wholesalers. The status of the wholesalers would
in principle remain what it is presently, i.e., autonomy of the agent vis-a-vis
the plant. However, in the relations of CIOR with the agents, emphasis would
be placed on large volumes by giving incentives such as quantity bonuses, and
on market transparency by requiring agents to maintain and communicate sales
statistics to the plant. A good geographical dispersion of the agents will
be also required; in the Oriental region for example, some 32 agents dispersed
in some 17 different locations appear necessary to distribute adequately
CIOR's production all over the Region.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 4
3. Transport of CIOR's Production Beyond the Oriental Region
8.        The Fez and Casablanca areas are well accessible from CIOR's plant
by rail through the main Oujda-Casablanca line to which the plant is con-
nected by a short spur line. Distribution terminals could be established
at or nearby the freight railway stations of Fez and, if necessary Casablanca
(Ain Seba) while SORESMA's planned bulk terminal in the Casablanca port and
the SNMC plant, which may distribute CIOR cement in the Casablanca area, will
also be connected to the rail network. The Casablanca-Oujda line is presently
a single line but it is now being doubled between Casablanca to Fez and can
accommodate trains with a maximum load of 1,200 tons except between Sidi Kacem
and Taza, respectively 120 km West and 120 km East of Fez; on this stretch
grades of up to 1.6% and curves presently limit the train load to 900 tons, on
the basis of only one locomotive per train (ONCF the national railway company,
does not yet have diesel locomotives which can be coupled for traction).
9.        Present traffic on the Oujda-Casablanca line is well run by ONCF.
With a maximum number of 32 trains and 14 trains per day respectively for
Casablanca-Rabat and Fez-Oujda, present track occupancy is below 65% of the
practical capacity as determined by the distance between sidings where trains
meet, signalling and train speed. On the most critical stretch between Fez
and Oujda, the addition of 8 trains (4 both ways) per day for CIOR's cement
would increase track occupancy to about 80%, but capacity could be increased
and considerable more traffic could be accommodated by: (i) manning some
intermediate stations or sidings in existence but presently not used, and
where trains could meet, and (ii) operate longer trains with multiple unit
locomotives and lengthen existing sidings. The first way of increasing
capacity would involve limited costs and is expected to be sufficient in the
medium term. Present freight traffic on the Fez-Oujda is about 400,000 tpy
while ONCF estimates that freight traffic of up to 6,700,000 tpy could be
accommodated before major investments will be necessary for doubling the line
or installing a sophisticated centralized signalling system.
10.       ONCF has adequate experience in massive transport of bulk commodi-
ties; about 75% of its revenues are generated by transport of rock phosphate
which reached a maximum of 20 million tons in 1974. Other bulk transport by
ONCF include petroleum products and fertilizers, but little cement which is
mostly transported in bagged form in small 20 ton box cars. ONCF presently
has about 10,000 freight wagons, but is also building new wagons, mostly
hopper wagons for phosphates through its subsidiary SCIF 1/, and is continu-
ously expending its locomotive fleet. Provided the necessary wagons are
bought, ONCF should be capable of operating unit trains to transport CIOR's
production.
1/   SCIF:  Societe Cherifienne de Material Industriel et Ferroviaire.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 5
4. Handling of CIOR's Cement Sold Beyond the Oriental Region
11.       Besides the transport itself, the other critical aspect of the
distribution of CIOR's cement outside the Oriental is the handling of cement:
loading trains at the cement plant, unloading, storage and dispatch at the
distribution terminals. Considering the quantities involved (up to 2,000 ton
per day (tpd) in 1985 of which 1,800 tpd to Fez), double handling at the
terminals should be limited and unloading/unloading operations should be as
fast and reliable as possible. The plant itself had been initially designed
under the assumption that most of the production earmarked to Algeria would be
dispatched in bulk: 2 packing machines and bag-loading facilities had there-
fore been foreseen to bag about 65% of CIIMA's total output in 2 shifts. With
now about 90% of the production expected to be sold in bags in Morocco, CIOR
will have to equip itself with additional packing facilities, essentially a
third packing machine, at the plant or at the terminals.
12.       In late 1976 with the assistance of cement distribution/transport
consultants (Ciments Francais) a preliminary transport and handling study was
undertaken which examined the following major alternatives:
(i)   Bulk handling:    loading cement at the plant in bulk wagons;
transport to a bulk receiving terminal
equipped with storage silos, a packing machine
and fast dispatching facilities for loading
bags and bulk cement on trucks supplying the
local wholesalers.
(ii) Pallet
handling:          installation of the third packing machine and
loading cement bags on pallets at the Oujda
plant in special covered freight cars; at the
terminal, unloading, storage in sheds and
reloading of the pallets on trucks by fork-
lifts.
(iii) Conventional
manual handling:  installation of the third packing machine
at the plant; loading individual bags
by conveyor belts and by hand in normal
box cars; at the terminal, unloading,
storing in sheds and reloading individual
bags by hand, conveyor belts or individual
trolleys on trucks.
13.       A comparison of the 3 alternatives for a distribution
terminal located in Fez, capable of handling 540,000 tpy is given
below which includes the incremental costs in Oujda if all the packing
is carried out at the plant i.e., in alternatives (ii) and (iii):



ANNEX 3-3
Page 6
Comparison of Transport/Handling Alternatives
Bulk          Pallet       Manual
Handling      Handling      Handling
Personal Requirements                            42           50           130
Operating Costs per year (DH'000) /a          1,240        1,370         2,490
Capital Costs of Facilities (DH'000) /a   16,740          14,250        12,150
Number of New Wagons /b                          56 /c        62 /d       (210) /e
Capital Cost of New Wagons (DH'000) /a        9,800        8,700          ( -)
/a   1976 terms.
/b   Including spare wagons for maintenance and contingencies.
Ic   Bulk wagons, of 80-ton gross weight and 59.6 ton capacity.
/d   "EVS" wagons, 80-ton gross weight and 54 ton capacity i.e. 36 pallets.
/e   Box cars of 20 ton capacity already owned by ONCF.
The pallet and bulk alternatives are preferable to the manual alternative, as
well from an economic point of view as shown above (independently of transport
considerations) as from an operational point of view, since they are more
reliable, and faster and thereby increase the time available to the loading
facilities at the Oudja plant to handle CIOR's cement destined to the Oriental
Region. From a transport point of view, the comparative advantage of one
solution against the other will depend inter alia on: (i) the rotation
of the wagons (shorter with the fast loading/unloading operations); (ii) the
opportunity value of ordinary ONCF wagons (whether they can be considered
as surplus or on the contrary new ones have to be bought); and (iii) opportuni-
ty value of the new special wagons (bulk or EVS) at the end of their operating
life for CIOR. These depend in turn on ONCF's traffic prospects and the
possibility of a subsequent use of special cement wagons by other cement
producers. A comprehensive comparison of the alternatives should also take
into account losses (substantial with manual handling of bags), unnecessary
bagging (if the final consumer could be supplied in bulk), complementarity of
the chosen solution with the transport of CIOR's sales in the Oriental, and
the flexibility of the system with respect to major variation in time of the
volume transported. The final distribution studies will take these factors
into account, for various market scenarios, to recommend on the handling
system and type of wagons.
5.   Distribution of CIOR Cement in the Oriental
14.       Because of the shorter distances (maximum 200 km) involved in the
distribution within the Oriental Region, CIOR's transport pattern in that area
will also include other means of transportation than rail; the final selec-
tion of the transport pattern will be determined until CIOR starts production
by variations in the comparative tariffs and prices of the different means.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 7
Othter factors which will also determine this choice are: (i) differential
development of the local cement demand per subregion leading to a consumption
pattern different from the present one; (ii) the construction of a railway
link between Nador and the main Casablanca-Oujda line thereby connecting
the major market of Nador directly to the plant; (iii) development of the
private trucking fleet or on the contrary expanision of ONT's activities;
(iv) development of sales of cement in bulk requiring special vehicles.
15.       Because of CIOR's location on the main railway line it is likely
that at least 25% of CIOR's sales in the Oriental could be dispatched by rail.
Between the alternatives for transporting the remaining 75%, dispatch in
ONT truck versus dispatch in a fleet of trucks owned by by CIOR, the latter
appears the most economical with a cost 0.155 DH/tkm (1975 prices) versus
0.206 DH/tkm with ONT. A CIOR owned fleet of 40 trucks required to transport
some 300,000 tons would cost some DH 6 million with supporting facilities.
Such a large truck fleet which represents a heavy investment and therefore
carries a substantial financial risk, will not be necessary since many whole-
salers will still prefer to take care of the transport themselves. It appears
more realistic to consider for CIOR a basic fleet capable of transporting
about 20% of the plant's production destined for the Oriental. Part if not
the majority of these trucks could be bulk trucks for direct delivery to large
cement consumers (such as ready mix concrete plants, prefabricated housing and
other construction components) if more enterprises of these types develop in
the Oriental region as anticipated . In such case, CIOR's fleet would include
a mixture of about 7 trucks of 20 tori and 10 ton capacity at a total estimated
cost of DH I milion (1976 prices). The precise composition of this fleet will
be one of the main conclusions of the required distribution/transport study.
6.   Organization and Financial Status of CIOR's Commercial Department
16.       CIOR will set up a commercial department handling sales within
and outside the Oriental, controlling the distribution terminals, and headed
by a commercial director who would have equal standing as the plant manager,
in view of his crucial role. While support facilities for CIOR's trucks would
be located at the plant and the main terminal, the commercial department will
be located at the Company's main office in the town of Oujda with the advan-
tage of better business contacts.
17.       Under the proposed pricing system, ex-factory costs and transport/
distribution costs are treated separately. Costs of transports and total cost
of distribution (including depreciation and return on assets) up to the
terminal's gate in other regions will be borne by the price equalization
scheme. CIOR will therefore maintain a separate accounts for all its
distribution operations.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



ANNEX 4-1
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
RAW MATERIAL AVAILABI'LITY AND ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
1.        The location of CTOR is about 50 km south of the Mediterranean Coast
at the northern edge of the plateau which forms the eastern extension of the
Atlas range. The principal geological formations of the region are Marine
Jurassic sediments and a Quaternary continental cover. In the area of the
plant itself the main geological formations are Quaternary/Tertiary (including
calcrete and clay) and Middle Lower Jurassic. These Jurassic formations are
marine sediments including marl, limestone and dolomite. The calcrete covers
the clay deposits but is only occasionally present over the limestone deposits.
2.        Following preliminary work by the "Service d'Etudes de Sites Mineraux'
of Morocco, CIMA undertook in 1973 with the help of drilling contractors and
a French geological consultant, detailed geological surveys to locate raw
materials suitable for the manufacture of cement in the Oujda region. Ten
calcareous deposits selected were then examined in greater detail and partly
investigated by drilling. This survey concluded that the most favorable
primary deposit was the limestone at Naima West, and the most favorable secon-
dary material was the clay in the plain of Sidi Bou Houria to the north of the
Taourirt-Oujda road.
3.        Following these surveys anc: after signature of the Engineering
contract in January 1974, APCM carried out the detailed geological studies.
The drilling program started by CIMA was intensified and extended to cover
adequately the limestone deposit and the northern clay deposit, and supplemented
by the sinking of pits. A second clay deposit, more doubtful in quality but
very conveniently situated adjoining the proposed works site south of the
limestone deposit, was also investigated in detail as an alternative. The
deposits were also mapped geologically using aerial photographs. Cores from
the drilling were analyzed at the laboratories of the "Centre Experimental de
Recherches et d'Etude du Batiment et des Travaux Publics" in Paris and the
Research Department of APCM. The following sections describe the procedure
and results of these geological studies which appear adequate.
B. Limestone Deposit
4.        The limestone deposit is located north close to plant site on the
other side of the main Taourirt-Oujda road. Some 47 borings representing a
total length of 2800 m were completed within an area of some three square
kilometers covering the deposit. Samples from 19 bore holes representing
one-meter intervals down to depths of 60 to 70 m were analyzed with regard
to CaO and MgO content and losses to fire. From 19 bore holes representing
some 1083 m of core, a first batch of grouped samples, each representing five
consecutive metres, were prepared from the individual samples and submitted
for analysis for S02, A1203, Fe203, CaO, MgO, K20, Na2O, total S and Cl. The
same procedure was applied on a second batch representing 538 m of core from
nine other bore holes and a third batch from six more bore holes. Material
from five bore holes, the analysis of which corresponds closely to the average



ANNEX 4-1
Page 2
of the first batch, was selected, crushed and mixed to provide a bulk sample
of approximately 700 kg used later for manufacturers' tests. The results of
the analysis of the two first batches of samples and of the bulk sample appear
in table 1. Small samples of core were also selected for the determination
of the hardness and moisture content of the limestone.
5.        The limestone body is structurally simple with the calcareous
succession dipping north-east at an average angle of 3 and some minor folds.
In some place the limestone is covered by some calcrete; the limestone or the
calcrete are exposed at the surface over much of the area. For practical
purposes the overburden is not more than 0.5 m of soil as the calcrete could
be quarried together with the underlying limestone. Minimum proved reserves
included in a basic area of 390 ha with an average thickness of 59.4 m of
limestone amount to about 600 million tons (dry basis) of limestone. When
drilling the deposit all water circulation was lost and no rest-water levels
were recorded in the boreholes. Only slight sub-surface inflow during exploit-
ation of the limestone, apart possibly from that following heavy rain, is
therefore anticipated.
6.        The limestone is generally moderate in grade with a CaCO3 ranging
between 79% and 93%. The southern part of the deposit reveals higher carbo-
nate contents averaging 92% of CaCO3. Of the other constituents, the silica,
alumina amd iron contents do not exhibit large relative variations; the
magnesia content is however significantly variable and is such that the sole
use of certain sections of the limestone would result in the production of
cement with an excessive magnesia content and therefore potentially liable
to delayed expansion. Limestone from some of the first boreholes could
yield cement containing from 4 to 7% M4gO while ASTM specifications impose a
limit of 5% of MgO. The later boreholes revealed that the southern part of
the deposit lhas less magnesia than the northern part. Further detailed
studies of the deposit, including histograms revealed that the distribution
of the high magnesia beds is generally predictable; the persistence of the
horizons is such that the deposit may be quarried by normal selective
methods to provide limestone of acceptable quality without the necessity of
sidecasting high magnesia material.  The saturated moisture content of the
samples ranged between 0.2% and 5%.  grinding tests (such as for the "liardgrove
index") confirmed that material is molerately hard and non-abrasive. The
chemical composition of the limestone is given in table 1 of this Annex.
C. Clay Deposit
7.        The initial geological surveys lhad identified two possible clay
deposits: the southern deposit adjoiniing the plant site and the nortlhern
deposit at about 7 km from the plant beyond the limestone deposit.  Althougl
the preliminary results suggested thal: the northern clay deposit was
qualitatively more favorable, its remote situation warranted the detailed
investigation of the southern clays.  Further investigation with bore holes,
pits and chemical analysis of samples was therefore undertaken on botih deposits.



ANNEX 4-1
Page 3
8.        This detailed investigation of the southern clay deposit confirmed
the results of the earlier surveys: clay body variable in composition and
of limited depth, variable and high magnesia content (4 to 5% of MgO), some-
times combined with a too high silicat content. On this account the southern
deposit compared unfavorably with thc northern deposit and was thereby rejected
as a source of raw material.
9.        The detailed investigation of the Northern clay deposit included
6 pits and some 41 boreholes. Detailed chemical analyses were carried out on
recovered material representing each meter of the boreholes and bulk samples
for equipment manufacturers were prepared of boreholes which had penetrated
the full thickness of the clay. Chemical analysis of the material is given
in table 1.
10.       The clay deposit consists of 25 metres of visually uniform compact
brown clay with very occasional small, pebbles overlain by a few metres of
calcrete and about 0.5 metres of soil. The calcrete of the top section has
an average content of CaCO3 slightly above 60%; although chemically the
material is suitable for cement manufacture, it should be sidecast on account
of its variable physical and chemical nature; additionally, its high CaCO3
content would necessitate a larger proportion of secondary material in the
mix and, in view of the distance of the deposit from the plan site, it is
considered that the increased transpcrt costs incurred could not be justified.
Below the calcrete, the clay has a CaCO3 content below 50% and a faily uniform
chemical nature. The magnesia content is fairly high averaging 2.6% but as
with the other constituents the values determined were generally uniform, and
difficulty arising from variations in the magnesia content of the clay are
not envisaged.
11.       The deposit could everywhere be exploited to a depth of 30 metres.
Assuming that the high-carbonate upper five metres were to be sidecast, the
total quantity of clay within an area of 250 ha amounts minimum to 116 million
ton (dry basis). Taking into account the slopes of the excavation and access
margins t:he net recoverable reserve is estimated at 100 million ton. The
moisture content of the pit samples averaged 14.5% implying an in-situ density
of 2.15 ton/m3. During the investigations, the pits sunk to 15 meters in the
deposit were dry and the boreholes were completed to 30 metres without encounter-
ing appreciable water; no significant difficulty during exploitation from
inflowing sub-surface water is anticipated.
D. Gypsutm
12.       A gypsum deposit situated at about 50 kilometres from the plant has
been investigated and the material found to be suitable. This deposit belongs
to the Ministry of Public Works and is presently leased to and exploited by
private contractors. The gypsum will be purchased from this source and used
as an additive to clinker in a proportion of about 5%.  The deposit will
thereby be sufficient to supply the works for about 45 years. other gypsum
deposits are known to exist in the region and could be exploited at a later
stage.



ANNEX 4-1
Page 4
E. Raw Material Composition
13.       Combinability investigation was carried out by APCM using the
limestone and northern clay samples, to establish adequate areas of chemical
composition and raw mix particle sizing. The raw materials were proportioned
within the Lime Saturation Factor range of 90% to 100%. This yielded mixes
in which the silica ratio, alumina ratio and magnesia content were virtually
invariant at 2.6, 2.1, and 2.0% respectively. The analyses of these mixes
are given in Table 2. In view of the relatively high magnesia content better
qualities of cement will be obtained by burning to a free lime content of 1%
or less; to achieve this low free lime content it appears preferable to
proportion mixes with Lime Saturation Factors in the lower nineties and grind
the meal to a residue of 10% + 90 microns rather than with Lime Saturation
Factors approaching 100% which require finer grinding.
14.       The earlier investigations of the clay deposits had indicated that
local variations in the chloride content could sometimes bring the level of
chloride in the raw meal near the upper end of the range acceptable for a
process without bleed-off facilities for the kiln gasses. Initial design of
the equipment had therefore considered an alternative arrangement with a
bypass for bleed-off which would accomodate chlorides up to 3 to 4 times the
highest levels of chlorides found in the clay. Further detailed investigation
of the northern clay deposit then confirmed that selective quarrying of the
ample reserve would allow to control chloride content sufficiently below the
critical limit so as to eventually require a bleed-off arrangement only in
the later stages of exploitation. In addition, the blending system of the
raw material primarily aimed at the control of the magnesia content will also
reduce variations in the chloride content. Therefore, the equipment finally
selected for the plant does not include the bypass arrangement; it will however
have the flexibility through its layout and simple changeable access to
accomodate a bypass if required in the later years of production.
15.       In the case of the alkalis and S03, the balance is such that process
performance and clinker quality are dependent on the sulphur content of the
fuel. A fuel oil with a sulphur content in the range 3% to 4% 1/ will be
eminently suitable for preheater performance by combining with volatilized
alkalis into soft sulfates depositing in the lower part of the preheater and
which would be self-removing. The final alkali sulfate level in the clinker
will be such as to give very good early strength cement properties. If
however, later on sulphur free natural gas is used as the fuel, the excess of
volatilized alkalis over those required to form sulphates would be such that
restricting alkali carbonate deposits might occur in the preheater; an
increased excess of alkalis over those as sulphate in the clinker would also
be expected, with potential adverse effects upon clinker storage properties.
This would be readily alleviated by adding approximately 0.5% S03 as calcium
sulphate to the raw feed.
1/   Moroccan regulations specify a sulfur content below 3.5% and 4%
respectively for heavy fuel oils No. 1 and No. 2.



ANNEX 4-1
Page 5
16.       Handling characteristics and grindability of the raw material have
been investigated through various tests. Moisture absorption of samples were
examined by determining saturation moisture: respectively 4.8% and 26.9%
for the limestone and the clay. Assuming in extreme cases a maximum moisture
content of 30% for the clay, the upper values of the moisture content of
the combined raw material would range between 7 and 10%. The supplier of
mechanical equipment has therefore guaranteed output of the combined crusher
system for moisture content up to 7%. Laboratory grinding tests (Hardgrove
Index, Batch Ball Mill, Bond Rod Mill and the Bond Ball Mill) confirmed
earlier conclusions on the behaviors of the raw material during comminution:
limestone, fairly hard to grind but typical of limestone used for cement-
making; clay, soft, easy to grind but could cause cushioning problems if
not dried quickly and removed from the mill. Crushing of the clay and lime-
stone combined appeared therefore more adequate. The tests also provide an
indication of the power requirements of the raw mill: between 18 and 26 kwh/
ton to grind to fineness between 15% and 5% + 90 micron.
17.       All these investigations by APCM concluded that the clay and lime-
stone do not require corrective materials (such as sand, pyrite ash) and
mixed in raw meal compositions as given in Table 2, the materials are suit-
able for the dry process with four stage suspension preheater. The suitabil-
ity of the raw material was also confirmed by the three equipment suppliers
who introduced bids for the main equipment of the plants. The investiga-
tions carried out by these suppliers on samples of raw materials confirmed
the findings of APCM. These suppliers confirmed the suitability of the
material by accepting to guarantee the clinker output with the specified
equipment. Results of one supplier's analysis of the raw materials and
laboratory clinker tests are detailed in Table 3, including the prospective
clinker composition.
F.   Special Cements
18.       Although it is envisaged that CIOR will generally produce Portland
Cement, the eventual production of special cements has also been studied.
The studies indicated that with the process chosen the raw materials are
suitable for the manufacture of both sulphate resisting cement and low heat
Portland cement. This would require some additional raw materials in the
form of iron oxide and a silica rich component. Analyses of a typical
impure iron oxide and sand required and examples of the proportions for
possible raw mixes for these cements are given in Table 4. Masonry cements
can be made, using as additives the available limestone plus a suitable air
entraining agent. Pozzolanic cements can be manufactured with the addition
of fly ash (available at the Jerrada power station near Oujda) or other pozzo-
lanic materials. CIOR will also be able to produce blast furnace cement by
using slag from the SONASID steel project when this project starts production
in the early 80's.
G.   Conclusions
19.       The proved reserves of raw material are at least 600 million tons
of limestone and 100 million tons of clay respectively sufficient for 440 and
260 years of production at 100% capacity utilization. The clay and limestone
used in simple mixes without any corrective materials are adequate for the
production of clinker with the dry process kilns with suspension preheaters.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 4-1
Page 6
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMCHNT PROJECT
TABLE 1
CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF RAW MATERIAL
Limestone Deposit
Average Analysis  Average Analysis   Analysis of
of 19 Boreholes   of 9 Boreholes  50 kg sub-sample
(1083 m of core)  (538 m of core)   of bulk sample
SiO2                4.45               3.44              4.6
A1203               1.45               1.o8              1.5
Fe203                0.91              0.61              0.8
CaO                49.26              51.55             49.7
MgO                  1.84              1.01              1.8
K20                 0.46               0.40              0.55
Na2O                0.053              0.03              0.07
Total S             0.074              0.02              0.02
Cl                  0.009              0.004             0.011
Northern Clay Deposit
Average Analysis of    Analysis of 20 kg
5-30 Metre Interval       Sub-sample of
of 15 Boreholes         Bulk Sample
T_%
Si02               46.36                  47.2
A1203              11.60                  11.8
Fe203               5.05                   5-0
CaO1                                      14.1
MgO                  2.69                  2.6
K20                 1.87                   2.0
Na2O                0.26                   0.34
Total S             0.030                  0.026
Cl                  0.030                  0.033
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 4-1
tiage 7
MOROCCO - CIOR C5ENT PROJFCT
TABLE 2
PROPORTIONED MIXES
Mix 1                    Mix 2                   Mix 3
Mix Proportions               76.99% Limestone          78-40% Limestone        79.70% Limestone
23.01% Northern Clay    21.60% Northern Clay  20.30% Northern Clay
Analysis (%)
SiO2                                  14.40                    13.80                  13.25
A1203                                  3.87                      3.72                  3.59
Fe203                                  1.77                      1.71                  1.65
Mn203                                  0.04                      0.04                  0.04
P205                                   0.06                     0.06                   o.o5
TiO2                                   0.21                     0.20                   0.19
CaO                                   41.51                    42.01                  42.47
MgO                                    1.98                      1.97                  1.96
S03                                    0.09                     0.09                   0.09
S                                      0.02                     0.019                  0.018
.Rquivalent S03                        0.14                     0-14                   0.135
Loss of Ignition                      35.19                    35.53                  35.85
K20                                    o.88                     o.86                   0.84
Na2O                                   0.13                      0.13                  0.12
7quivalent Na2O                        0.71                     0.70                   o.67
Chloride                               0.016                     0.016                 o.oi5
Lime Saturation Factor %                90.0                      95.o                 100.0
S/R                                    2.55                      2.54                  2.53
A/F                                    2.19                      2.18                  2.18
% liquid at 14000C                      23.6                      22.9                  22.2
(Lea & Parker)
Molar 303                         0.17                     0.17                   0.17
Molar K20 +  Molar Na2 0
(No S03 from Fuel)
Molar S03
Molar K20 +  Molar Na2O                 0.77                      0.78                  o.80
(No SO, from Fuel 0.5% S03
added o raw feed)
Molar S03                         0.76                     0.78                   0.80
Molar K20 + ' Molar Na20
(using Fuel* containing
3.5% S)
1!,ssuming 3.5 X oil consumption.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 4-1
Page 8
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 3
CHK1vy,ICAL COMPOSITION OF SPECIEI CEMENTS
Low Heat                  Sulphate Resisting
Mix Proportions               Portland Cement                 Portland Cement
Limestone                       74.95                           79*93
Clay                            11.35                            7.89
Iron Oxide                       3.90                            3.33
Sand                             9.80                            8.85
Target Clinker Analysis
,iO2                            23.8                            21.0
Al20'                            4.5                             4 0
Fe203                            6.4                             5.6
CaO                             61.9                            65.9
%LSF                            81.2                            98.0
S/R                              ; .18                           2.19
A/F                             0-70                             0.71
Potential Compound
Composition (Bogue
Assuming Zero Free Lime)
C),LF                           19.5                            17.0
C3A                              1.1                             1.1
C2 D                          44.1                              4.4
C3S                             31.9                            74.0
Typical Analyses of Additives
Iron Oxide                         Sand
SiO2                             8.o                            65.5
A1203                            1.8                             3.8
Fe203                           71.9                             1.9
CaC                              3.4                            14.2
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 4-1
Page 9
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 4
RAW MIX TESTS AND RESULTING CLINKER QUALITY
Tests on raw mix with 79.3% limestone and 20.7% clay carried out by Polysius:
Raw Mix               Clinker
Chemical Compositions(%)
Loss on Ignition                           35.85               -               -
SiO2                                       13.59             21.18          21-47
A1203                                       3.69              5.75           5.81
TiO2                                        0.20              0.31           0.32
Fe2O3                                       1.58              2.46           2.70
Mn23O                                        _                 _               _
CaO                                        42.25             65.86          65.61
MgO                                         1.82              2.84           3.14
S03                                         0.11              0.17             -
P205                                        0.02              0.03           0.05
Na2O                                        0.09              0.14           n.a.
K20                                         0.78              1.22           n.a.
Ci                                          0.02              0.03           n.a.
Total                          100.00              99.99         99.10
CaCO3 (+MgCO3) titrated                    77.48
CaCO3 calculated                           75.42
MgCO3 calculated                            3.81
Potential Mineralogical Composition (according to Bogue) (%)
C3S                                                          64.98          61.01
C2S                                                          11.72          15.55
C3A                                                          11.07          10.83
C4AF                                                          7.48           8.20
Silica Ratio                                                  2.43           2.43
Alumina Ratio                                                 2.46           2.27
Lime Standard                                                97.3           95.4
% Liquid at 1400C (Lea)                                     26.55          27.45
n.a. = non available
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 4-2
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.    Process Choice
1.         The choice of the process is primarily determined by characteristics
of the raw materials, availability of water and the need to minimize fuel
consumption. When the materials are suitable to the dry process, this process
has a much better fuel efficiency than the wet process as illustrated by their
respective energy consumption per kg of clinker: between 750 and 950 kcal/kg
with the dry process and above 1350 kcal/kg with the wet process. The natural
humldity of the raw material mix in Oujda will generally be below 5% with occa-
sionally possible peaks of about 7% during the short wet season. With this
humidity the fuel saving advantage of the dry and semi-dry process over the
wet process are determining. In the choice between the dry and semi-dry pro-
cess the principal factors are: availability of water, chemical properties
of the raw material (alkalies, chlorides), and costs. While the semi-dry
process generally achieves a better removal of chloride/alkalies, the chloride/
alkalies contents of CIOR's raw material do not reach such high levels to
justify the higher investment costs and operating costs of the semi-dry process
vis-a-vis the dry process. Because of direct use of water in the pellitization
of the raw material, the semi-dry process is fully dependent on steady supply
of substantial quantities of water; in the dry process on the contrary the use
of water is largely required by sprayers for gas conditioning against dust
pollution and can thus be curtailed during an emergency. This consideration
was important in the selection of the dry process for CIOR since no surface
water but only sufficient underground water is available in the region.
2.         Detailed investigations determined that the raw materials (Annex 4-1)
are suitable for the dry process. A four-stage suspension preheater system
was selected as giving the maximum heat (and fuel) efficiency when using the
hot gases from the preheater for final drying of the raw material at the
grinding stage. No operating difficulties resulting from chloride circuits and
clogging by alkali chlorides are expected in the preheater svstem as chloride
contents of the raw materials are below critical levels and can in addition
be controlled through selective quarrying and adequate blending. Blending
will be performed by a pre-blending stockpile system for crushed raw material,
which will also ensure adequate control of magnesia to an average level.
B.    Plant Capacity and Flow Rates
3.         The plant will have two parallel lines of mill and kiln equipment,
with one rotary kiln each with nominal production capacity guaranteed under
test conditions at 1800 tons/day and capable of up to 2100 tons/day. To ensure
that the maximum output of the plant is not limited by an item of ancillary
equipment, each line of ancillarv equipment is designed for a maximum output
of 2100 clinker tons per day. Reliability is in addition enhanced by cross-
connections between the two lines at various stages in the process. The run-
ning time coefficient is conservativelv assumed at 85% corresponding to about



ANNEX 4-2
Page 2
310 days per year: annual production will then depend on the capacity utiliza-
tion. The capacity utilization will increase gradually along the "learning
curve" of the personnel of CIOR and with the solving of the usual technical
difficulties of the first production years. It is expected that a 90% capacity
utilization would be reached on the fourth year corresponding to about 1 mil-
lion ton of clinker per year. At 100% capacity utilization of kiln (which is
realistic because of the conservative running time coefficient and the double
production line) the annual output would reach 1,117,000 tons 1/ of clinker.
4.         The final configuration of two lines (units) of production of
500,000 tpy (ton per year) of clinker was chosen among several alternatives
the extremes of which being three units of 300,000 tpy and one single unit of
1,n00,000 tpy. While capital cost per ton decreases as the size of the unit
increases, other factors determined also the final choice:
(i) Output reliability: Virtually no single 1,000,000 tpy unit
has yet reached the same standard of reliability as achieved
by smaller units. The reliability consideration is important
since CIOR will only own one cement plant and in the event
of a breakdown will not be able to partially satisfy its
clients' requirements by diverting cement from other factories.
With two 500,000 tpy units it should be possible to keep cus-
tomers reasonably satisfied during periods of production diffi-
culties as a customer will be inclined to stay with a supplier
if his supplies are only reduced and not stopped altogether.
On the other end of the size range, it is likely that 500,000
tpy units will probably not give quite such good running times
as units of 300,000 tpy. However, the capital saving for
500,000 tpy units, compared with 300,000 tpy units, is appre-
ciable and offsets the small difference in reliability.
(ii) Transport and Erection: In the case of CIOR the difficulties of
unloading at the ports and land transport to the site practically
limit the size of the units to 500,000 tpy. With units of this
size, the problems of unloading the larger components at the
ports and transporting them to site are much more easily solved
than with larger units, which then also involve carrying out
specialized fabrication work on the site that is normally done
in the suppliers' workshops.
Within this last limitation, the final choice of two 500,000 tpy
units was then a sensible compromise between the reliability of small units
and the low capital cost of very large units.
1/   Based on the kiln guaranteed output; considering that the kilns can
produce up to 2,100 tons/day, the 100% capacity utilization at 1,800
tons/day is equivalent to 95-98% of actual capacity of the plant rated
at 1.2 million ton of cement per year.



ANNEX 4-2
Page 3
5.         Capacitv and operating time of the various plant items and the
various storage capacities are shown in the following tables:
Operating Periods
PLANT DEPARTMENT                   Capacity             Hours/Day   Days/Week
Oluarrv                                                     8            6
Combined raw material crusher    1100 ton/hour              8            6
Conveving to mill bunker           400 + 800 ton/hour    To suit mill demand
Raw mills                          2 x 2100 ton equiv.
clinker/day   24            7
Preheater                          2 x 2100 ton equiv.
clinker/day   24            7
Kiln, Coolers                      2 x 1800 ton clinker/
day /I         24           7
Clinker Conveyor                   2 x 250 ton/hour        24            7
Clinker (Additive extraction
from silos)              2 x 120 ton/hour       To suit mill operator
Clinker grinding                   2 x 110 ton/hour        24            7
Cement Conveying                   2 x 300 ton/hour       To suit mil operation
Cement Packing                     2 x 110 ton/hour /2    16             6
STORAGE                            Capacitv
Blended Raw Material Stockpile   2 x 50,000 T 9
Raw Meal Blending Tanks            2 x 3,000 T
Raw Meal Storage Tanks             4 x 4,800 T
Clinker - Silos                    2 x 10,000 T
- Outside storage         unlimited
Pozzolana - Silo                   1 x 5,000 T
- Outside               unlimited
Limestone - Silo                   1 x 5,000 T
- Outside               unlimited
Cvpsum - Silos                     2 x 600 T
- Outside                  unlimited
Cement Silos (Packing)             6 x 4,000 T
Cement Silos (Bulk Rail & Road)  6 x 2,750 T
Heavv Fuel Oil                     2 x 3,000 T
Light Fuel Oil                     1 x 300 t
/1   Guaranteed - but could actually produce 2,100 tpd.
/2   Could be supplemented by a 3rd machine if all bagging is done at the
plant instead of bagging part of the production at the distribution
terminals.
/3   Actual stock being 50,000 T as one pile is being reclaimed while the
other is being formed.
The capacities of the blended raw material stockpile and of some of the
enclosed storage facilities (silos) are not as large as in plants with one
single line of equipment, the main reason being the better reliability in-
sured by the two different lines with cross-connections at the various



ANNEX 4-2
Page 4
stages in the process. In addition most enclosed storage facilities (such
as for clinker storage) are supplemented easily with open air storage which
is feasible because of the dry climate of the area. Of the two raw materials,
especially adequate supply of clay is to be arranged because of the longer
distance of the quarry to the crusher and more difficult quarry operation in
case of rain: an emergency clay stockpile will therefore be established near
the crusher. Because of this provision and the provision of sufficient spare
quarry loading equipment no larger capacity is required for the blended raw
material stockpile.
C.   Summary Description of Project by Procurement Packages
6.        Detailed preparation of the project is done by APCM which has
divided it in various procurement packages detailed in the table below.
This table also gives the financing source for the foreign exchange com-
ponent of each package.
Financing source of the
Procurement Package                            foreign exchange cost
1.   Civil Works (CTRA-ENATRA site pre-
paration contract): earthworks,
drainage, service directs, sewage,
roads, temporary offices                             CIOR
2.   Buildings and Foundations (main civil
contract - Construcoes Technicos).                   IBRD
3.   Infrastructure:  water supply, electricity,
social facilities, land, rail.                       CIOR
4.   Mechanical Equipment (Polysius contract):
-  supply, transport                                   IBRD, CIOR
- erection, supervision of commissioning,
training, spares                                    IBRD
5.   Inspection Services of the Equipment (Kennedy
& Donkins contract)                                  IBRD
6.   Standby Generators:  2 GCGE diesel alternators
500 kVA                                              IBRD
7.   Electrical Equipment (Brown Boveri contract):
supply and installation of substations and
distribution network                                 IBRD
8.   Process control (COMSIP contract)                      IBRD
9.   Quarry Equipment for Excavation:  3 loaders
(International), 2 back hoes (Poclain) and 1
bulldozer (Komatsu)                                  IBRD
10.  Other Quarry vehicles:  6 quarry lump trucks           IBRD
(Perlini), 6 "on-off" highway-dump trucks (Berliet)
11.  Drills and Compressors (Atlas Copco)                   IBRD
12   Workshops:  mechanical and electrical workshop
machines and tools, vehicle repair equipment         IBRD
13.  Laboratory Equipment                                   IBRD
14.  Other vehicles:  2 cranes, service vehicles and
switch locomotive                                    CIOR



ANNEX 4-2
Page 5
D.    Descriptiono  Proje   by Department
7.         The various departments are illustrated on the Plant Layout (Annex
4-3) and on the Process Flow Sheet (Annex 4-4). A detailed description of
each department is given hereafter.
Quarries
8.         The limestone quarry will operate simultaneously on a 2-bench
system of about 15 m depth each to average the variable magnesia content.
The stone drilled by 2 compressed air drills and blast will be recovered by
two plus one standby loader. No secondary blasting appears necessary. Con-
veying to the crusher located near the quarry will be done by 5 (plus 1 stand-
by) 35 ton quarry type dump trucks. After 4 to 5 years of operation the
quarry face will be high enough to effectively use 2 face shovels which will
then supplement or replace the loaders.
9.         Removal of the calcrete overburden of the clay quarry will require
ripping and pushing with a heavy duty bulldozer. To avoid operating diffi-
culties with occasional surface water the clay will be recovered by 2 back
hoe type machines operating on top of the quarry face in dry conditions.
Transport to the crusher about 7 km away will be carried out by 5 (plus
1 standby) "on-off" highway dump trucks.
Raw Material Crushing
10.        A combined crusher rather than two separate crushers, one for clay
and one for limestone, has been selected for the raw material crushing. The
reason is that in a separate clay crusher, the stickiness of the clay which
under extreme rainy conditions (about 20 days a year) could reach a high
moisture (as high as 30%), could result in difficult handling and crushing
problems. In a combined crusher where clay and limestone are mixed in the
correct proportion, the effects of stickiness are reduced as limestone tends
to keep the crusher free from build-up. This consideration was illustrated
by the fact that the three suppliers who submitted bids accepted to quarantee
output of the ccombined crusher at 7% moisture as requested, but did not
guarantee output under moist conditions for a separate clay crusher proposed
under an alternative solution. The selected combined crusher will be of the
double rotor hammer mill type fed by two separate feeders with automatic
distribution to combine the clay and the limestone in adequate proportions.
The system including screening and recirculating mill will be guaranteed to
meet the requirement of-crushing 1,100 ton of combined raw material per hour
down to a product size of 98% passing 25 mm at a combined moisture content
of 7%.
Raw Material Conveying and Blended Stockpile System
11.        The raw material will be transferred from the crusher across the
road to the stockpile near the main plant by a conveyor of about 600 m crossing
the road under a concrete bridge. The conveving system will include transfer



ANNEX 4-2
Page 6
towers and a automatic sampling plant which will provide a 2 kg/hour continuous
and representative sample of combined material feed. The svstemt will also
include provision for later installation of a totalizer belt weigher.
12.        The blended raw material stockpile will consist of 2 x 50,000 ton
uncovered heaps. The fully automatic stocking-out and reclaiming system will
include stocking and reclaiming machines travelling on rails and conveyors up
to the raw material bunkers ahead of each raw mill. This type of stockpile
system provides adequate blending as the stocker continuously travels along
the piles and deposits thin peel-like layers while the reclaimer changing
position very slowly cuts vertical slices all through the heap of material.
The system will operate on the basis that the carbonate content of the raw
materials in the stockpiles will be just below the kiln feed requirement; this
allows carbonate correction at the raw mill with pure limestone and avoids
handling difficulties as would be the case if carbonate of the stockpile was
above kiln requirements and correction was achieved with sticky clay. A
separate conveyor line will therefore transport limestone from the crusher
directly to bunkers ahead of each raw mill.
Raw Mill
13.        From the raw mill bunkers the blended raw material and correcting
limestone will pass through weight control feeders to be fed in the two sep-
arate raw mills. The raw mills will be of the closed circuit airswept type.
Each mill system will operate in conjunction with a particular preheater/
kiln svstem and use waste heat from the kiln gases to drly the raw material.
Both systems will be connected to a common auxiliary furnace providing hot
air and sufficient for one mill when waste heat is not available from the
kiln. Each mill will be guaranteed by the supplier for an output of 140 ton/
hour over a continuous 24 hour period (equivalent to a clinker output of 2100
tons ner 24 hour) under 7% moisture and when producing 10% residue on a 4900
mesh sieve with 1% on the 900 mesh sieve.  The supplier also guarantees power
consumption of the mill motor.
Raw Meal Blending and Storage
14.        The raw meal blending/storage installation will inc'lude 2 x 3,000
ton blending tanks and 4 x 4,800 storage tanks, the blending tanks sitting
above two of the storage tanks. At the internal floor level within each
blending tank a low and high pressure aeration system is installed and
divided into four quadrants. A system is provided whereby high pressure
air can be admitted to each of the quadrants in sequence and at the same
time, low pressure air admitted to the remaining three quadrant sections.
At the top of the blending tanks an interconnecting airslide conveyor is
provided. Three methods of blending can be used with this arrangement:
continuous blending (the whole operation is carried out in one tank), con-
tinuous cascade blending (successive blending in the two tanks) and batch
blending (using the tanks alternatively). This choice among the three alternative



ANNEX 4-2
Page 7
methods insures continuous operation even when one of the tanks is out of
order. The differential pressure procedure insures adequate blending of the
raw meal which is then fed into the storage tanks.
15.        The storage tanks are conventional storage silos equipped at their
base with air slides which extract the blended raw meal. This material is
then elevated and fed, in excess of the require rate, to a weighter system
(with return convevors) which controls the correct amount to be conveyed to
the preheater.
Kiln Plant
16.        The kiln plant will consist of two lines of equipment each incor-
porating a conventional 4-stage preheater, a short length rotary kiln with
planetary coolers at the outlet of which will be a clinker breaker. The kilns
will be guaranteed by the supplier for a clinker output of 1800 ton per 24
hours continuous day with the coolers rated for cooling clinker to 1500 C
above ambient temperature. The heavy duty fans of the preheater and the plan-
etary coolers will be designed to allow production up to 21no ton per day.
The kiln will have an extra length for pre-cooling prior to the cooler inlet
ports and a system to prevent sDill back of the clinker from the cooler to
avoid brasion of the firing pipe. Although it is anticipated that the kiln
will operate at least during the first years with heavy fuel oil, the installa-
tion will be designed for firing with fuel oil and/or natural gas with facili-
ties provided to enable quick changeover from one fuel to the other. The
equipment supplier has guaranteed a thermic consumption of 830 kcal/kg clinker
tising oil having a minimum calorific value of 9600 kcal/kg and 850 kcal/kg
of clinker using natural gas having a minimum calorific value of 7on0 kcal/Nm3.
Clinker Handling and Storage
17.        ITeavv duty clinker breakers with collecting boxes and vibrating
feeders -7il] distribute clinker on both of the two elevating bucket type
convevnrs. The two convevors, each with a capacity of 250 tonthour will
operate on the '-asis of one working and one on standby: thev will feed on
a reversing shuttle conveyor positioned above and feeding the 2 x 10,000 ton
clinker silos or alternativelv feeding a 300 ton hopper from where tipping
vehicles or mobile convevors could remove inferior clinker and if necessarv
extra clinker for outside storage. Another hopper on the clinker conveving
system will enable the reintroduction of this clinker stocked in the open.
Transportation and St orage of Additives
18.        The gypsum will be brought to the nlant by road transport, deposited
in a single hopper and fed bv conveyors in 2 x 6no ton silos. The same system
would be used for pouzzolana and blast furnace slag which would be stored in
a 3,000 ton silo. (ypsum and pouzzolona could also be stored outside and fed
into the same hopper. The crushed limestone required for special types of
cements will be obtained from the main crushing plant in the quarry area and
produced outside the normal crushing period required for feeding to the raw



ANNEX 4-2
Page 8
material blended stockpile. From the first transfer tower before the blended
stockpile, this limestone is fed through a separate conveying system to a
3,000 ton silo near the cement mills.
Clinker Grinding
19.        Clinker grinding will be carried out by two closed circuit cement
mills incorporating two elevators per mill. Each mill is independently
supplied with clinker from one of the clinker silos. Extraction of this
possibly hot clinker is automatically weight controlled in correct proportion
with the gypsum. The manufacture of special cements requiring limestone or
other additives will be confined to the mill nearest to these additives
storage silos (also equipped with extraction equipment controlling weight).
20.        Each mill will be guaranteed to an output of 110 ton/hour when
grinding Ordinary Portland cement to 3,000 cm2/gm Blaine. Gases from the
mill will be treated in electrostatic precipitators before being exhausted
to the atmosphere. The internal water cooling systems provided in the mills
will help the treatment of the waste gases in the precipitator by conditioning
the gases and ensure that the quality of the cement product is not inferior
and subject to "air-setting." The mill motors will be located in a separate
room distinct from the general mill area thus ensuring that the motors operate
in the cleanest possible working conditions.
Cement Conveying and Storage
21.        Conveying of cement to the storage silos will be carried out with
belt conveyors or alternatively by pneumatic handling. Cement to be dispatched
in bulk will be stored in 6 silos of 2,750 tons, each arranged for direct
loading into rail or road vehicles. Storage of cement for the packing plant
will be provided by 6 silos of 4,000 tons each. Total bulk storage capacity
is thereby equivalent to about two and a half weeks of production. The number
of silos for each installations (bulk dispatch and bagging) is sufficient to
accommodate different grades of cement with changes in their relative rates
of production. The storage in silos can also be supplemented by storage in
bags in the open.
Cement Bagging
22.        The bagging plant will include two 8-spout packers each rated 110
ton/hour to pack ordinary and special cements in 50 kg bags. These bags
will be distributed to either road or rail loading systems. The road loading
facility will consist of four suspended retractable conveyors reducing manual
transport to an absolute minimum and allowing forward driving of the road
vehicles. The rail loading system will include conveyors delivering on both
sides of a large loading platform. Elevators and conveyor are also foreseen
to receive empty sacks by rail or road.



ANNEX 4-2
Page 9
Dust Control Facilities
23.        After passing through the preheater (and the raw mills when oper-
ating) gases from each kiln will be treated in a gas conditioning tower (with
water sprayers) and electrostatic precipitators before being discharged to
the atmosphere through a common stack. The dust content of the gases after
the precipitators will be guaranteed by the suppliers not to exceed 150 mg/Nm3
at the output of 1800 ton of clinker per day and other specific levels for
other rates of production.
24.        Gases from the cement mills will be exhausted separately to the
atmosphere after treatment by other electrostatic precipitators for which the
maximum dust emission will be guaranteed not to exceed 115 mg/Nm3 at the guar-
anteed output of the mills. The packing plant system will be equipped with
two main and separate dust collecting facilities with separate dust collectors
to the conveyors. All through the plant the various belt conveyors will be
provided with enclosed gantries with asbestos roofs and side panels.
Process Control
25.        The raw materials of CIOR do not present such variations and do not
require other corrective materials for the mixes as to require sophisticated
and expensive computer or direct digital controls. In addition to their
higher costs (about 20% more in equipment cost than normal process control
equipment and higher personnel costs) computer systems require special person-
nel which would be difficult to recruit and keep for Oulda. Substantial teeth-
ing troubles are experienced with such systems which are better handled in
companies with several plants with such systems and can afford a specialized
computer unit in their organization. For these reasons, none of such schemes
will be provided to CIOR. The control systems will be designed along conven-
tional methods implving more personnel on the controls. Such design will not
preclude the incorporation of computers in the far future when plentv special
computer personnel would be available in Morocco.
26.        The design oblectives of the process control system will be to pre-
sent process data and controls to run the plant at optimum levels of output
and quality and also provide automatic protection of equipment and personnel.
In addition to manual controls, automatic controls will be provided when
feasible to assist in material feed rates, flows, temneratures and pressures;
various types of sensors, visual and audible alarms and devices shutting down
automatically sections of the plant in certain circumstances will also be
provided. Process information and control of the majoritv of the plant will
be assembled in a main control center. Local control centers are also planned
for the quarry, cement grinding, cement storage, cement packing and dispatch.



ANNEX 4-2
Page 10
Workshops
27.        A main basic mechanical workshop, an electrical and process control
workshop will be installed on the plant site. In addition, a mobile equipment
repair and maintenance depot will be located in the limestone quarry area to
avoid transporting quarry equipment across the main highway. This facility
will be supplemented by mobile maintenance trailers to service heavy duty
equipment on the spot in the quarries.
Miscellaneous
28.        A laboratory will be provided to undertake physical and chemical
testing of raw materials and cement products. The equipment will include
an "off line" x-ray spectrometer complete with sample preparation equipment
and other miscellaneous items.
29.        General service vehicles and mobile equipment will include mobile
cranes, medium size tipping vehicles and a switch locomotive.
Services
30.        Training and technical assistance are discussed in Annex 4-6.
31.        Engineering, planning, procurement and general supervision of
construction and start-up are being carried out by APCM. APCM has subcon-
tracted detailed design and supervision of civil works to the consultants
Oscar Faber and Partners, and studies in Morocco to the consultants Magreb
Proj ects.
32.        Detailed design and supervision of commissioning of some specific
packages will be done by the respective suppliers (mechanical equipment,
main detailed contract, process control equipment) or by ONE for the electri-
city supply (see Annex 4-4). The other packages consist of off-the-shelf
items to be procured directly.
Industrial Projects Department
Januarv 1977



MAIN ROAD No 1             _ _ro QUJDA
___~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~~ L .I .______ ____ ___..____-________
/A; MATERIAL          RAW MATERIAL                                     EL CTROSTAI C
STOCKPILE  STOCKPILE                               ~~~~~~~~PREFCIPITATORS  PREHEATERtS           F INGTL
4 _f S -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uLII
I                                 AW M  I  L GE
MOROCCO -CIOR CEMENT PLANT                                                                        > >s~~~~~~~~             FIES 
PLANT~~~~~~ ~      ~          ~~~~~                                                                   ~~~~~~ LAYOUT  ,R/O:
IAREA FOR
OUTSID ,           MI OUR
ISTO RAOE          STIO
IOF GYPSUMIRWMA
Mav, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~A 1975D Y8LNDN
1POZZOLANAI   GENERATOR             SOiG   IU
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PLANT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~CINKR ILS_
PLANT LAYOUT~        ~ ~ ~ [[]UTID
I LOOSTIIOI PrOWLIS DRportment  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        WICHYAR        SB SATON                                                           SPTC
M~~~~~~~~S. 1070  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ CMNTML)WOElGHBRnkDGE



MOROCCO -CIOR CEMtNT PROJEcr
PROCESS FLOW CIIART
X /-L F~~~~
4n
<        S D'/                              H1H~~~~~~~~~~~i
11.I  M1  I.                                  e -
flaSsT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U ,llE auGhl^ Y  -
2 :1 ^Y u/Anev    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



ANNEX 4-5
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
A.    UTILITIES
Fuel
1.         The plant is basically designed to use heavy fuel oil of the type
No. 2 presently produced in the two refineries of the Moroccan Companies
SAMIR (Societe Marocaine de Raffinage) and SCP (Society Cherifienne des
Petroles) located respectively in Mohammedia and Sidi Kacem. Physical and
chemical characteristics of the heavy fuel oil No. 2 appear in Table 1. At
full production, CIOR's total fuel requirement will be about 90,000 tons of
heavy fuel per year or about 5% of the country's estimated heavy fuel demand
bv 1980. The supply of this amount to CIOR has been taken into account by
the refining companies whose combined total refining capacities are being
increased from 3 million ton per year to about 6.5 million ton. In addition,
a third refinery of 2 to 3 million ton capacity is planned for the late
seventies. The distribution of oil products is carried out independently
from the refineries by distributing companies. Physically CIOR is however,
expected to receive its fuel by rail directly from the Sidi Kacem refinery.
For this purpose 2 storage tanks of 3,000 tons each I/ and unloading facilities
will be provided near the railway sidings. A 300 ton storage tank also is
provided for light fuel oil for the electric standby generators.
2.         The plant design takes into account possible later use of natural
gas. The natural gas distribution network in Algeria will shortly be
completed up to the Moroccan border.  Plans had previously been made to extend
the distribution to Morocco including to the plant, but have been shelved
with political difficulties between the two countries.
Electricitv
3.         CIOR will be supplied with electricitv by the Office National de
l'Electricite (ONE) from its new overhead high voltage transmission line
passing to the south 6 km from the plant. The connection will include a
225/60 kV substation near the main 225 kV line, two 6n kV overhead lines,
a 60/11 kV substation just outside the plant. The large substation and the
overhead lines are paid for by but installed and maintained by ONE. Detailed
engineering and procurement of these installations have also been carried out
by ONE. Total power requirement of CIOR is estimated at about 122 million
kWh per year with peak demand of about 25,000 kVA.
1/    Equivalent to 3 weeks of CIOR's fuel consumption at full production.



ANNEX 4-5
Page 2
4.         Distribution at the plant will mainly include the 60/11 kV substation
and networks for 3 different voltages (11 kV, 5.5 kV and 380 Volt according
to the power requirement of the various equipments and installation). In
case of external power cut, two standby diesel alternators of 500 kVA each
will provide sufficient power for essential operations, i.e., barring of the
kiln. water supply, emergency lighting, process control and other critical
services. Design and procurement of the distribution network has been carried
out by APCM.
Water SupDly
___
5.         Water will be required mainly for (i) gas conditioning before the
precipitators, (ii) spraying in the cement mills, (iii) cooling of the kiln
bearings and (iv) human use on the site. Maximum demand during full production
is estimated at 16 1/sec. Supply will be provided by a deep well located at
less than 1 km of the plant near a borehole which was drilled and tested by
the "Direction des Ressources en Eau" of the Ministry of Public Works. The
well will be equipped with submerged pumps to tap a deep aquifer of low
salinity, different from the shallow aquifers used for agriculture. The
water services will include a filtration plant, a circulation system and
provision of drinking water. Foul drainage and sewage treatment facilities
will also be provided.
B.    INFRASTRUCTURE
Transportation
6.         A short single railway line has been completed to connect the plant
to the main Casablanca-Oujda-Algeria line passing 2 km south of the plant.
In the works are several railway sidings that will allow loading wagons with
bulk and bagged cement and unloading of fuel. Detailed design has been
carried out by Oscar Faber with the approval of the national railway corpora-
tion (ONCF). Earthworks for the connection and the sidings were executed as
part of the site preparation contract. The installation of tracks and
signalling equipment was done by ONCF's usual contractors.
7.         The plant is immediately adjacent to the main road from Oujda to
Fes. Only quarry roads and roads for circulation in the plant need to be
constructed.
Housing and Recreation Facilities
8.         It is the general practice in Morocco that mining and industrial
enterprises located in remote areas provide accommodation at least for their
staff and sometimes for their workers. As the major town of Oujda is
located about 45 km from the plant, accommodation for the plant personnel
will be provided closer at the small town of El Aioun 15 km from the plant,
where a complex will be built including houses for about 440 families and



ANNEX 4-5
Page 3
recreation facilities. This solution is preferable to building the complex
near the plant where no infrastructure and living community presently exist. In
El Aioun on the contrary, CIOR's plant personnel will benefit from the
existing infrastructure and other amenities. Limited accommodation will be
provided in Oujda for CIOR's upper management, while other staff working
there at the company's main office should be able to find accommodation in
the town itself.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



ANNEX 4-5
Page 
MOROCCO: CIOR CWENT PROJECT
TABLE 1
AVERAGE ANALYSIS OF FUEL OIL NO. 2 PRODUCED BY SAMIR
Specific Gravity at 15             o,95
Specific Heat                       0,145 kcal/m3
Higher calorific value             10.500 kcal/kg
Net calorific value   0             9.710 kcal/kg
Engler Viscosity at 99 C            30
at 700C           90
at 500C          270
at 38C          610
Flash point                       1300
Sediments % volume                  trace
Water % volume                      trace
Sulfur                              2,20
Conradson index % weight            7,7
Organic Acid                        -
Asphalt % weight                    3,5
Composition C/H/S/I %               85,7/11,4/2,2/0,7
Sodium ppm                          300
Potassium ppm                       -
Calcium ppm                         24
Magnesium ppm                       24
Lead ppm                            traces
Nickel ppm                          traces
Vanadium ppm                        100
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 4-6
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
iECOLOGY
Introduction
1.        Potential ecological problems posed by dry process cement plants are
air pollution mainly, and noise pollution. No specific standards regarding
pollution control have been established in Morocco but new cement installa-
tions are generally designed according to European standards. The CIOR plant
is being designed according to such pollution control standards, and in
particular along the British regulations for Cement Works Emissions. Occupa-
tional health and safety is taken care of in a similar manner, especially
through the training program and the technical assistance. As detailed in
the next paragraphs ecology, occupational health and safety aspects are being
dealt with adequately.  In addition, the location of CIOR is qulite suited to
a cement plant: semi-desertic area, no town or other population centers in
the vicinity (Oujda is 45 km away, Naima and El Aioun about 15 km away),
only few isolated houses and not located close to the plant, no major agri-
cultural activities (mainly livestock breeding, scarce and intermittent
cultivations). No environmental problems are thereby anticipated.
Air Pollution
2.        Special attention is being given in the design and procurement of
the equipment to the control of dust emission. The main sources of dust and
gases i.e., the raw mills, kilns and cement mills, will be provided with
special gas treatment facilities including precipitors. After their passage
through the cyclones of the preheater system, and subsequently through the
raw mills (when these operate), the gases from each kiln will pass through
conditioning towers with water sprayers before treatment in a set of electro-
static precipitators. The treated gases from both lines are then exhausted
to the atmosphere through a common stack. The precipitators will be guaranteed
by the supplier for a maximum dust content not to exceed 150 mg/Nm3 at the
output of 1,800 ton of clinker per day. Similarly, gases from each cement
mill will be treated in electrostatic precipitators after conditioning by
the cooling water in the mill. These precipitators will also be guaranteed
for a maximum dust emission not to exceed 115 mg/Nm3 at the guaranteed out-
put of the mills. Dust collected in all precipitators will be returned to
the material flow of the production process.
3.        Dust control devices will be provided on the potential secondary
sources all through the production process. The bagging plant will be
equipped with 2 main separate dust collecting facilities. The raw material
crushing plant and the various silos (raw meal, clinker, additives, cement)
will also be equipped with dust filters. The various belt conveyors will
be installed in enclosed gantries. No dust problems are anticipated from



ANNEX 4-6
Page 2
wind blowing over the open raw material stockpile as the period of strong
winds coincides with the rainy season during which the blended raw material
will be humid mainly because of the clay moisture.
4.        No pollution problems due to specific elements in the gases such
as chloride, alkalies or sulfur components are anticipated. Chloride
content in the raw material will remain below the critical levels requiring
a bypass arrangement for gas bleed-off and thereby avoids the problem of
finding a suitable disposal for dust rich in chloride collected in a bypass.
Alkalies volatized in the kiln will combine in the preheater with sulfur
from the fuel into soft self-removing sulfates which improve the quality
of the clinker.
Noise Pollution
5.        The raw mill and cement mills which are major sources of noise will
be installed in enclosed buildings. The process control system designed
with self contained local control centers (quarry, cement grinding) and a
main control center will allow the personnel to run the plants from rooms
adequately insulated against noise. Intake hoppers (such as at the raw
material crusher) will be lined with shock and noise absorbent material.
Liquid Effluents
6.        No liquid effluents in substantial quantitites will result from the
production process: water sprayed is evaporated in the conditioning towers
which are guaranteed to remain dry at the bottom, cooling water for the kiln
bearings is recirculated. Liquid effluents will come mainly from water
directly used by the personnel and will be treated in separate foul drainage
and sewage facilities.
Occupational Health and Safety Hazards
7.        During the course of the training program with APCM and the equip-
ment supplier in European plants (see Annex 4-7), CIOR's personnel will
be trained to operate according to technical standards, including pollution
control, safety and health measures as enforced in Western Europe. Technical
assistance will further develop health and safety procedures after startup.
Automatic shutting devices provided in the process control equipment, standby
generators (supplying power to emergency lighting, water supply and other
critical services in case of external power cut) and general safety consider-
ations in the design and selection of equipment (against burns, exposure to
moving parts, etc.) will provide adequate protection to the personnel.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 4-7
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
LABOR FORCE, TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A.   Labor Force Requirements
1.        At full production the total personnel requirement is estimated
at 441 persons excluding the commercial Department with the following
qualifications and breakdown by Department.
CIOR - Estimated Personnel Requirements
Technical           Clerical  Unskilled  Skilled
Department    Management    Staff    Foremen   Staff    Workers   Workers  TOTAL
Direction
Generale            1           -           -        2         -           -       3
Plant
Management          1           1           1        6         -           -       8
Production          4           8          17        6         29        100    164
Maintenance         3           3          35        1           9        95    146
Procurement         1           2           1        3          -          5      12
Planning            1           2           -       -           -          1       4
Training Safety    1            5           3        1          -          -       5
Administration      1           -           -       23          20        23      71
Finance             4           -           -        -          -          -      27
Commercial        n.a.        n.a.        Aia.    n.a         n.a.       n.a.   n.a.
TOTAL           17          18          54      69          58        224    440
The Personnel requirements for the Commercial Department depend on the type of
distribution facilities selected for Fejand' Casablanca and will be determined
by the distribution study as outlined in Annex 3-3.



ANNEX 4-7
Page 2
2.        The personnel is scheduled to build up gradually to reach full
labor force by the end of 1978 according to following program.
1975   1976   1977   1978
-    Mfanagement/Engineers             11      12     17      17
-    Technical Staff/Foremen            7      14     62      72
-    Clerical Staff                    10      12     36     69
-    Skilled/Unskilled workers          6       6     94    282
Total                        34     44    209    440
This scheduled has been designed in light of the training requirements detail-
ed in the next section and planned production start-up.
3.        In accordance with this schedule CIOR has recruited engineers
and other top technical staff for whom the training program is under way.
There is presently in MIorocco a very strong demand for graduates with techni-
cal degrees; it is therefore necessary to attract them with high salaries.
Recruitment of personnel of all other kinds is easier. Many responses to
CIOR's advertising and spontaneous enquiries from lower technical staff and
skilled labor have come forward. Direct contacts with the population in the
Oujda region while workers have been hired for the geological investigations
and for civil works, have also indicated that recruitment for labor in the
area would not present difficulties. With the unemployment in the region the
new work opportunities for labor in the CIOR plant will be beneficial.
B.   Training
5.        Without cement production facilities of its own already operating
and without substantial help from other existing cement producers who need
personnel for their own expansions, CIOR has to resort to new personnel
and train them intensively. An important training program has therefore
been established with APCM in cooperation with Maghreb Projects, CIOR's
training manager and the equipment suppliers. This training
program which has started well in advance of production plus the technical
assistance during the first years of production (explained in Section C)
appear adequate. Training of the accounting staff is discussed in para 6.07.
of the main report.
6.        Training for the 65-man technical staff and key skilled workers
is being carried out by APCM and the mechanical equipment supplier as detailed
below:



ANNEX 4-7
Page 3
TRAINING PROGRAM
No. of Personnel
APCM             Equipment  Supplier
Personnel                         6 months  12 months    6 months   9 months
Plant Manager                         -           1            1           -
Laboratory:
Chemists                            19           1            1           1
Production:
Production Manager                   -           1            1          -
Quarry Superintendent                1           -            -          -
Production Superintendent            8           1            -          -
Skilled Operators                    -           -            -          8
Maintenance:
Maintenance Manager                  1           1            -          -
Mechanical/Electrical Engineer       -           4            -           -
Superintendents                     16           -            -          -
Skilled Labor                        1           -            -          10
Others:
Stores Superintendent                2           -            -          -
Training Officer                     -           i            -          -
Administrative Manager               1           -            -           -
Chief Accountant                     1           -
Total                     50          10            3          19
7.        The  training by APCM has been provided in the United Kingdom to all
staff (from Management down to foreman). This program includes instruction at
APCM training facilities and practice through full participation in operations
in several cement plants mainly in the dry process plant at Hope. This program
already under way will be executed over a period of 3 years and comprise 2
training sessions of one year for 5 persons each and 5 sessions of 6 months for
10 people each. The number of persons recruited and trained will exceed the
actual requirement to allow for defections.
8.        Training by the supplier Polysius is part of the mechanical
equipment contract. Polysius will be responsible for the organization and
implementation of the training program which has been proposed according
to the schedule here above. Some 22 key personnel including some trained
also under the APCM program plus skilled operators of key equipment are being
trained in European cement plants using similar equipment as CIOR for periods
of 6 or 9 months each. Shorter training periods (1 to 2 months) are also
provided, essentially as familiarization sessions in Europe, by the suppliers
of electrical and process control equipment.
9.        Among the first batch of personnel trained by APCM was a training
specialist with a background in technical education who presently manages a
permanent training unit in Morocco. Following his return in August 1975
he established this recruitment unit. Simultaneously upon return from their
training with APCM or Polysius the other personnel collaborate with



ANNEX 4-7
Page 4
APCM on design, procurement, supervision of construction and installation of
the plant. Some key technical staff and the financial manager will also
receive additional training through 1-3 months assignments in existing
plants in Mlorocco.
10.       Other personnel, mainly unskilled labor, which do not require
an extensive and specific training in cement manufacturing will not be hired
long in advance of startup. As it is the case on other industrial projects
in Morocco, it is expected that unskilled labor used by the contractors
for construction and erection, and often recruited locally, will remain as
permanent labor force on the completed plant. Such procedure is quite helpful
by familiarizing operators in advance with this equipment which they installed.
C.   Technical Assistance
11.       The equipment supplier's will supervise commissioning of the plant
by CIOR's personnel. Up to one year after startup the mechanical equipment
supplier will provide technical assistance with up to 6 specialists if CIOR so
requests.
12.       Technical assistance after startup is also foreseen as the last
phase of APCM's services to CIOR. A technical assistance program has there-
by been proposed including about 30 man years during the first 5 years of
production, and firm arrangements for it will be taken by the end of 1977.
13.       CIOR has already hired an independent and experienced cement engi-
neer as a technical advisor to the General Manager for the full period till
startup. This engineer is later expected to remain with CIOR for a few years
of operation.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PLANT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1975                        1976                         1977                        1978
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT                     -     P      J            3  33331333  IlUElEE 33ii33  13113  333                              _       _      _
SITE PREPARATION
CIVIL WORKS                                            t       z                      _
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT                          tm r _                                       333 ... .... ... .... .3333
PROCFSS CONTROL EQUIPMENT                          -                         #Vr  3         3                      llil _3
CONNECTION TO ONE POWER NETWORK                               1 33_ 11l3 3 111111 333333 3133i11 3133333 1_11 _I3 11_      _ _1
SERVICES & LOOSE PLANT                                        Iir'                          M m l  -- lr 1
HOUSING FACILITIES                                            ! 1W    V     4 AW.. OFAV O r r4 -- tf t w   r    _                              _
SUPPLY OF MOBILE PLANT                              v                                                                            tr zs move | umum*m  333333  333333  333331  ll33 3  3
QUARRY OPENING
START-UP AND COMMISSIONING
''  ''  TENDERING AND  """" EQUIPMENT   - ' -  EQUIPMENT  '                    TESTS               CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACTING              MANUFACTURING         ERECTION
AND DELIVERY                                                                                                               '
Industrial Projects Departnent
DECEMBER 1976                                                                                                                                   World Bank-9867      OD



ANNEX 5-1
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIMA CEMENT PROJECT
DETAILED CAPITAL COSTS AND PROCUREMENT
1.        Capital costs estimates are summarized in Table 1, p. 7 of this
Annex. Base cost estimates are given as of October 1976 except for signed
fixed price contracts for equipment and the main civil contract for which the
actual price has been used. Detailed estimates are shown in Table 2, page 8.
Civil Works (Item I) 1/
2.        This item has been procured in two separate packages according
to ICB procedures in line with the Bank's procurement guidelines. APCM
has subcontracted detailed design and supervision of construction to Oscar
Faber, a British engineering firm. The two packages are:
Site Preparation Contract including: earthworks for plant,
service ducts, sewage disposal and drainage, roads,
earthworks for the railway link and temporary offices.
Buildings and Foundations - (Main civil contract) includes:
plant foundations, silos, transfer towers and all other
buildings.
Bids for the two packages were received respectively in April 1975 and
February 1976. The successful bidder for the site preparation contract was
the joint venture CTRA-ENATRA from Morocco, which completed the work by the
summer of 1976. The main civil works contract was awarded to Construcoes
Technicos, a major contractor from Portugal, which started construction in
September 1976. On the basis of payments made for the site preparation
package and prices of the contract signed with Construcoes Technicos the
capital costs of the whole item are estimated as follows:
-----------(DH million)------------
Local         Foreign          Total
Civil works                   18.19            0.43           18.62
Building, Foundations         76.55           68.86          145.41
Total                    94.74           69.29          164.03
Infrastructure (Item 2)
Detailed descriptions of the various components are given in Annex
4-3. Cost estimates are the following:
1/   Items refer to Table 1.



ANNEX 5-1
Page 2
_A_______ (DH million)----------
Local          Foreign          Total
Water supply                    1.89            0.17            2.04
Electricity                    10.38            8.67           19.05
Rail                            8.02             -              8.02
Quarry Road                     1.83             -              1.83
Social Facilities              33.84             -             33.84
Land Purchase                   1.51            __              1.51
Total                    57.45            8.84           66.29
4.        Water Supply to the plant includes drilling and equipping of a
new well.  These works are being executed by Moroccan companies, BRPM 1/
and Dolbeau. Cost estimates are based on the actual cost of drilling (al-
ready completed) and contract prices for the equipment.
5.        Electrical items designated as infrastructrue package include the
connection to the ONE Network outside of the plant and a 225 kV branch line,
a 225/60 kV substation and 2-60 kV lines.  Complete construction including
procurement and installation of the connection is being done by the national
power company ONE 2/ with which a contract was signed in August 1975 for the
connnection and supply of power. Cost estimates for this infrastructure item
are based on this contract. Prices in this contract are subject to escalation.
6.        Items included in the railway infrastructure package include the
supply and installation of tracks and signalling equipment of the railway
link and sidings inside the plant which are being installed by ONCF 3/.
Earthworks for the railway are already included in the civil works package
(item 1). Design of the railway link and sidings was carried out by Oscar
Faber in cooperation with ONCF. Execution of the works has been carried out
by regular subconstractors of ONCF under the provision of the ONCF and is
essentially completed. Cost estimates for this package are based on actual
invoices and contract prices.
7.        The surfaced road between quarries will be procured among local
contractors, to be constructed during 1977. Cost estimates for this item
are based on prices paid for similar works executed under the site preparation
contract.
8.        Social facilities will include 95 houses for staff, 350 houses
for workers and social amenities (school, sport facilities and club) at
1/   BRPM - Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres.
2/   ONE - Office National de l'Electricite.
3/   ONCF - Office National des Chemins de Fer.



ANNEX 5-1
Page 3
El Aioun and Oujda. Also included in this package is a new office building
at Oujda for CIOR's management. Design and supervision of construction of
the facilities has been contracted with PROMOCONSULT, a Moroccan real estate
design and promotion company, subsidiary of CIH 1/. Construction will be
tendered locally and is scheduled to start in the first half of 1977. Cost
estimates for these facilities have been prepared by PROMOCONSULT on the
basis of their wide experience in Morocco.
9.        Part of the land occupied by the plant and the quarries amount-
ing to some 550 ha is owned by private individuals and is being purchased
directly by CIOR. The rest of the land amounting to some 250 ha will be
made available by the State to whom it belongs.
Equipment and Erection (Item 3)
10.       Cost estimates for the equipment, erection and supervision are
detailed below:
-----------(DH million)------------
Local          Foreign          Total
Erection and Supply of
Mechanical Equipment
a.  Equipment FOB                 44.43          183.83          228.26
b.  Erection                      24.35           12.55            36.90
c.  Spare parts for above           -              9.62            9.62
d.  Commissioning & Training       0.98            2.14            3.12
Subtotal                      69.76          208.14          277.90
Inspection of Mechanical Equipment    0.02               0.40            0.42
Standby Generators                      0.19             0.54            0.73
Main Electrical Equipment               13.65           17.64 /1        31.29 /1
Process Control Equipment                0.90            5.06 /1         5.96 /1
Quarry Equipment                         0.59           11.13           11.72
Other Mobile Equipment                   0.35            2.90            3.25
Workshops                                0.11            2.30            2.41
Laboratory                               0.11            2.25            2.36
Miscellaneous                            0.38            1.06            1.44
Total                         86.06          251.42          337.48
/1   Includes clearly identified foreign exchange components.
Procurement for all the above items except the "other" mobile equipment and
miscellaneous equipment followed international competitive bidding according
to Bank guidelines and including prequalification, and for large and complex
1/   CIH - Credit Immobilier et Hotelier.



ANNEX 5-1
Page 4
packages, two-stage bidding. Detailed specifications for all packages
were prepared by APCM. Procurement and cost estimates for the different
packages are detailed below.
11.       Bidding for the critical contract, supply and installation of
mechanical equipment took place under two-stage bidding procedures in
September to December 1974 and was called for in five individual packages.
a. Raw material crusher and blended stockpile
b. Raw mills; raw meal blending; kilns and clinker handling
c. Clinker grinding mills, cement conveying
d. Cement bagging and dispatch
e. Erection, supervision of commissioning.
Each equipment item includes transport, provision for spares and training
by the equipment supplier. The bid evaluation indicated that for all five
packages, "Polysius" France, submitted the lowest evaluated bid. Conse-
quently in April 1975 the bid was awarded to Polysius and a contract signed
in June 1975. The cost estimated above are based on the prices quoted by the
supplier and the subsequently signed contract. The foreign exchange cost for
the equipment and erection are firm prices without revisions according to
inflation during project implementation. All other cost items of the Polysius
contracts are base costs which will be increased according to an agreed upon
escalation formula.
12.       Bidding for two other critical packages, inspection of equipments
and supply of standby generators, took place during the first quarter of
1976. The inspection contracts and the contract for standby generators were
awarded respectively to Kennedy and Donkins from UK and Technical Equipment
- GCGE from France. Prices for the standby generators contract are firm.
13.       Following two-stage bidding procedures, the contracts for the elec-
trical equipment and process control packages have been awarded respectively
to Brown-Boveri of Switzerland and COMSIP of France and signed in June and
July 1976. Both contracts include firm prices without revisions except for
training and technical assistance.
14.       Procurement of quarry equipment, workshop and laboratory equipment
followed international bidding procedures also. Contracts for the various
subpackages were awarded during the fall of 1976 to various reputable sup-
pliers from the U.S., Western Europe and Japan. Cost estimates above are
based on signed contracts all with firm prices.
15.       Other mobile equipment includes various services vehicles and cranes
Miscellaneous equipment includes a switch locomotive and telephone installa-
tion. Procurement of the mobile equipment and locomotives will be carried out
through local competitive bidding. Cost estimates for these items are based
on quotations from possible suppliers.



ANNEX 5-1
Page 5
Freight (Item 4)
16.       This cost item includes sea freight, insurance, handling and
transport from the port to the site. Estimates for this item are based on
different signed contracts or quotations from possible suppliers.
Preoperating Expenses (Item 5)
17.       These items are estimated as follows:
 --------(DH million)------------
Local          Foreign          Total
Geological Study                     3.45             -              3.45
Training                             0.71            1.69            2.40
Commissioning & Quarry Opening       1.05             -              1.05
Salaries (1973-1977) & Admin-
istrative Expenses                17.96             -             17.96
Technical Assistance                  .30            1.00            1.30
Total                          23.47            2.69           26.16
18.       Training expenses covered under this item include the travel and
accommodation expenses of CIOR personnel trained by APCM and the equipment
suppliers; training fees as such are covered in the engineering by APCM (item
6 hereafter) and in the Polysius contract. Other training expenses include
administrative and miscellaneous expenses for training in Morocco in other
plants and by CIOR's training team.
19.       The "commissioning" expenses cover fuel, power, consumables and
other material used during the commissioning period. Supervision of the
commissioning is included in the cost estimates for the engineering and in
the Polysius contract.
20.       Salaries covered in the preoperating expenses item are the salaries
paid to all CIOR personnel during the period 1973 to the end of 1977. This
estimate is based on the gradual buildup of the personnel explained in Annex
4-7. Administrative expenses include miscellaneous administrative costs and
company car expenses. The cost item technical assistance covers the salaries
till 1978 of personnel other than from APCM and hired by CIOR for technical
assistance, and consultant's service to set up cost accounting and the dis-
tribution system.
21.       Of the expenses above, by October 1976 the following had already
been disbursed:
a.  3.45 DH million for the geological study;
b.  4.84 DH million in salaries and administrative expenses.



ANNEX 5-1
Page 6
Engineering (Item 5)
22.       This item covers all engineering work on the plant, including
design and supervision of the civil works, and the training carried out by
APCM and their subcontractors. These cost estimates include the firm prices
of the APCM contract plus refundable consultants' expenses.
Duties and Taxes (Item 7)
23.       Under the investment "convention" to be signed between the Moroccan
Government and CIOR, substantial investment advantages will be granted to
CIOR. Under these tax advantages most taxes and duties on goods and services
incorporated in CIOR's investment will be exonerated. The remaining duties
and taxes will thereby be limited to a special tax amounting to 5.1% of the CIF
value on imported goods, a 7.5% or 10% tax on local services (commissioning,
inspection and engineering, and the ONE contract) and a registration duty of
1.5% on equity.
Physical Contingencies (Item 8)
24.       Physical contingencies have been added to the base cost of all
items (except for the site preparation contract already completed and pre-
operating expenses already incurred), to account for minor changes and omis-
sions. The contingency allowance applied on the equipment packages and
infrastructure components for which contracts have already been signed
has been reduced to 5%, to take into account the higher degree of certainty
attached to these items. Similarly, a 5% contingency has been applied on
the main civil contract as detailed design has been completed, quantities
of works are known in detail, and earthmoving and other preparation works
for foundations and completed under the previous contract. For other pack-
ages, the physical contingency has been kept at 10% of base costs.
Price Escalation (Item 9)
25.       Costs of all items subject to escalation are given in October 1,
1976 prices except for the main civil works contract and the packages of the
mechanical equipment contract subject to escalation: base costs for these
two items are given on the basis of the date of contract signature, respec-
tively June 1975 and June 1976. The rates applied for price escalation after
June 19765 have been estimated on the basis of prices of recent tenders for
industrial equipment, the evolution of prices in general in Morocco as indi-
cated by the Price Index in Casablanca, variation of prices in construction
in Morocco as witnessed through recent tenders and the mix equipment/indus-
trial civil works specific to this project. The following rates have been
applied:
1975           14% per year
1976            12% per year
1977 & 1978     8% per year



ANNEX 5-1
Page 7
Incremental Working Capital (Item 10)
26.       Details of cost estimates are given in Annex 5-2.
Interest during Construction (Item 11)
27.       Calculations of interest during construction are detailed in
Annex 6-2.
Distribution Facilities
28.       Preliminary cost estimates for the distribution facilities (con-
sidering the alternative with the highest capital cost, i.e., with a bulk
terminal in Fez) described in Annex 3-3, are the following:
 ----------- DH million ------------
Local           Foreign           Total
Base Cost Complete Terminal       8.37             8.37            16.74
Price and Physical
Contingencies (15%)               1.25             1.26             2.51
Total Cost             3.52             9.63            19.25
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARt OF CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES - OUJDA CEMENT PLANT
TABLE 1
Million DH                          Million US$
Local    Foreign    Total          Local     Foreign      Total
1.  Building and Civil Works            94.7     69.3       164.0          21.0        15.4        36.4      21
2.  Infrastructure                      57.5      8.8        66.3          12.8         2.0       14.8        9
3. Equipment and Erection!/             86.1    251.4       337.5          19.1        55.9        75.0      44
4.  Freight                              6.3     13.8        20.1           1.4         3.1         4.5       3
5.  Preoperating Expenses               23.5      2.7        26.2           5.2         0.6         5.8       3
6.  Engineering                          5.0     11.3        16.3           1.1         2.5         3.6       2
7. Duties and Taxes                     24.8      -          24.8           5.5          -          5.5       3
Total Base Cost                 297.9    357.3       655.2          66.2        79.4      145.6       85
8.  Physical Contingency                14.5     17.4        31.9           3.2         3.9         7.1       4
9.  Price Escalation                    30.4     20.1        50.5           6.8         4.4        11.2       7
Total Fixed Assets              342.8    394.8       737.6          76.2        87.7      163.9       96
10.  Initial Working Capital             25.5      6.1        31.6            5.7        1.3         7.0       4
Project Cost                    368.3    400.9       769.2          81.9        89.0      170.9      100
11.  Interest during Construction        13.2     15.3        28.5           2.9         3-5        6.4
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED        381.5    416.2      797.7           83.8        92.5      177.3
1/ Including commissioning and training by suppliers.
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                       CD
January 1977                                                                                                         CD



MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
TA3LE 2
DETAILED CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE OF OUJDA PLANT
(DH Million)
Total
Foreign
Freight    Duties        Sub-                        Physical            Price                                       Exchange          Total
DESCRIPTION                                                Base Costs    Charges    & Taxes        Total                     Contingencies      Escalation        Total                           Cost        Local Cost
1.   Buildings and Civil Works
- Civil Works (Site Preparation)                          18.62         -           -         18.62                            _                 -           18.62                            0.43          18.19
- Buildings and Foundations                              145.41         -           -        145.41                           7.27            17.45         170.13                          80.98           89.15
Subtotal                                            164.03         -           -       164.03                            7.27            17.45        188.75                           81.41          107.34
2.   Equipment (Supply and Installation)
- Mechanical Equipment
- Supply                                            228.26       14.08        9.80     252.14                           12.61            13.41        278.16                          203.81           74.35
- Erection                                           36.90         -           -        36.90                            1.85             6.83         45.58                           13.18          32.40
- Spares                                              9.62         -          0.49      10.11                            0.50             2.46         13.07                           13.07             -
- Commissioning and Training                          3.12         -         0.28        3.40                            0.17             0.85          4.42                            3.03            1.39
- Inspection of Equipment                                  0.42         -          0.03        0.45                           0.02               -            0.47                            0.44           0.03
- Standby Generators                                       0.73        0.19        0.04        0.96                           0.05               -            1.01                            0.77           0.24
- Electrical Equipment                                    31.29        4.40        0.74       36.43                           1.82               -           38.25                           23.14          15.11
- Process Control                                          5.96        0.49        0.19        6.64                           0.33               -            6.97                            5.83           1.14
- Mobile Equipment
- Quarry                                             10.83       0.57         0.48      11.85                            0.59              -           12.44                           11.32            1.12
- Others                                              3.25        0.09        0.09       3.43                            0.34             0.14           3.91                           3.53            0.38
- Spares                                              0.92       0.03         0.04       0.99                            0.05              -             1.04                            0.98           0.06
- Workshops                                                2.41        0.12        0.13        2.66                           0.13               -            2.79                            2.52           0.27
- Laboratory                                               2.36        0.12        0.12        2.60                           0.26               -            2.86                            2.64           0.22
- Miscellaneous                                            1.44        0.06        0.06        1.56                           0.16              0.05          1.77                            1.32           0.45
Subtotal                                            337.48      20.15        12.49     370.12                           18.88            23.74        412.74                          285.58          127.16
3.   Infrastructure
- Water Supply                                             2.04         _          0.13        2.17                           0.22              0.10          2.49                            0.29           2.20
- Electricity                                             19.05         _          4.29       23.34                           1.17              0.55         25.06                            8.14          16.92
Rail                                                     8.02         -          0.49        8.51                           0.43               -            8.94                             -             8.94
- Quarry Road                                              1.83         -           -          1.83                           0.18              0.10          2.11                             -             2.11
- Offices and Social Facilities                           33.84         -          0.10       33.94                           1.70              2.85         38.49                                          38.49
- Land Purchase                                            1.51         -          0.02        1.53                           0.15               -            1.68                             -             1.68
Subtotal                                             66.29         -          5.03      71.32                            3.85             3.60          78.77                            8.43          70.34
4.   Pre-operating Expenses                                    26.16         -          5.85       32.01                            1.06             1.54         34.61                            3.57           31.04
5.   Engineering                                               16.30                    1.41       17.71                            0.89             4.16         22.76                           15.83            6.93
TOTAL:                                              610.26       20.15       24.78      655.19                          31.95            50.49         737.63                          394.82         342.81       a
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
PROJECTED WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
(DH Million - current terms)
1978       1979      1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987        1988
A.   CURRENT ASSETS
Cash                             1.65    1.76         1.89       2.02       2.16       2.31       2.47       2.65       2.83        3.03       3.24
Accounts Receivable             11.06   17.66        21.54      25.88      26.38      28.21      30.17      32.27      34.51       32.84      35.12
Inventories
Spares & Supplies          7.37    7.88         9.63      11.17      13.41      14.35      15.35       16.43      17.58      18.81      20.12
Fuel                       1.81    1.94         2.08       2.22       2.38       2.55        2.72       2.91       3.12       3.34       3.57
Paper Bags                 1.28    1.30         1.59       1.92       2.28       2.44        2.61       2.80       2.99       3.20       3.42
Work in Prog. Finish.   13.20   13.65          12.66      11.66       10.51      10.96      11.14      11.53      11.95      12.41       12.96
Goods
Subtotal             23.66   24.78        25.96      27.07      28.58      30.29      31.83      33.66      35.63       37.76      40.07
Total Current Assets            36.37   44.21        49.39      54.97      57.13      60.82      64.48      68.58      72.98       73.62      78.44
B.   LESS ACCOUNTS PAYABLE            4.80    5.14         6.28       7.51       8.93       9.56      10.22       10.94      11.71      12.52      13.40
C.   WORKING CAPITAL                 31.57   39.07        43.11      47.46      48.20      51.26      54.25       57.64      61.28      61.10      65.03
D.   CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL    31.57    7.49            4.04       4.36         .74      3.06        2.99       3.39       3.64       (.18)      3.93
Assumptions
Cash:                                     2 months of labor costs.
Accounts Receivables:                     1 month of sales.
Spares & Supplies:                        6 months' requirements.
Fuel:                                     6,000 tons (full storage capacity).
Paper Bags:                              6 weeks' requirements.
Work in Progress and Finished Goods:  60,000 tons equivalent of cement at full production costs.
Accounts Payable:                         1 month for supplies and spares, utilities and bags.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 5-3
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
BANK FINANCED ITEMS
DH            US$
Million       Million-a
A.   EQUIPMENT
(foreign exchange cost of supply,
erection and spares)
1.   Standby Generators                                     0.77           0.17
2.   Electrical Equipment                                  23.14           5.14
3.   Process Control Equipment                              5.83           1.30
4.   Excavating Equipment                                   4.23           0.94
5.   Other Quarry Vehicles                                  5.98           1.33
6.   Drills and Compressors                                 1.72           0.38
7.   Workshop Equipment                                     2.52           0.56
8.   Laboratory Equipment                                   2.64           0.59
9.   Spares for Mechanical Equipment                       10.12           2.25
10.   Equipment for Distribution Terminals                   7.76           1.72
11.   Mechanical Equipment                                  22.50           5.00
Subtotal         87.21          19.38
B.   SERVICES
(foreign exchange cost)
1.   Inspection of Equipment                                0.43           0.10
2.   Erection and Commissioning of Mechanical              14.28           3.17
Equipment
3.   Training by the Mechanical Equipment                   1.25           0.25
Supplier
4.   Consultant Services for Setting up                     1.12           0.25
CIOR's Accounting System
5.   Consultant Services for CIOR's                         0.22           0.05
Distribution System
17.19          3.82
C.   CIVIL WORKS
(477. of total cost)
Foundations and Buildings                            72.00          16.00
D.   INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION
On IBRD Loan                                          12.60           2.80
E.  UNALLOCATED                                                 13.50           3.00
TOTAL BANK FINANCED ITEMS                            202.50          45.00
a/ US$1.00 = DH 4.50.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



ANNEX 5-4
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBLURSEMENT
(IBRD Loan of US$45.0 Million)
Year                   Disbursement    Amount Outstanding    Amount Undisbursed
(US$ Million)      (US$ Million)             (US$ Million)
1977
III  Quarter          15.3               15.3                       29.7
IV  Quarter          13.3               28.6                       16.4
1978
I  Quarter           6.0               34.6                       10.4
II  Quarter           3.6               38.2                         6.8
III  Quarter           2.2               40.4                        4.6
IV  Quarter           1.4               41.8                        3.2
1979
I  Quarter           2.0               43.8                        2.2
II  Quarter           1.0               44.8                        0.2
III  Quarter           0.2               45.0
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 6-1
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
PRODUCTION AND OPERATING COST PROJECTIONS
A.   Production Build-Up
1.        The two kilns will each have a guaranteed capacity of 1,800 tons of
clinker per day. The annual production depends on the running time co-
efficient (estimated at 85% corresponding to 310 running days per year)
and the capacity utilization (increasing with the skill of the personnel and
the efficiency of the equipment) of the kilns. Installation of the first
production line is expected to be completed in May 1978 followed by the
completion of the second line two months later. After a commissioning and
startup period of three months, the two production lines would thereby begin
operations respectively by June and August 1978. For the financial projec-
tions, 4 months production at a kiln capacity utilization of 50% has been
assumed in 1978. During the following 4 years of production capacity utili-
zation would gradually increase to reach 100%. This is a realistic hypothesis
because of the conservative running time coefficient (85%) and the two par-
allel production lines. Assuming production of Ordinary Portland cement
(O.P.C.) with 5% additives, the projected output increases as follows:
1978    1979    1980    1981   1982-97
Running time coefficient (%)           85      85       85       85      85
Utilization of kiln capacity (%)    50         70       80       90     100
Clinker (000 ton)                     186     782      893    1005    1117
Cement (000 ton)                      195     821      938    1055    1173
Plant utilization ratio (%)            49      68       78      88       98 a/
Production is assumed to be sold 90% in bags and 10% in bulk.
B.   Operating Costs
2.        Operating costs have been estimated by CIOR in light of operating
data of existing plants and input prices in Morocco, guarantees of energy
consumption of the equipment suppliers, and APCM's recent experiences with
comparable plants in developing countries and in U.K. Table 1 of this Annex
gives the operating costs expressed in October 1976 real terms. The cost per
ton of cement produced varies from 1978 to 1982 on account of improvement of
efficiency, decreasing technical assistance and changes in taxation. For
these factors, the following assumptions have been taken:
(a) Labor cost: Although production of cement is increasing
between 1978 and 1982, it is assumed that the total labor
a/   On the basis of a plant nominal capacity of 1.2 million tpy corresponding
to an average kiln output of 1,840 ton per day per day (slightly higher
than guaranteed output) for 310 days of operation; equivalent to 92%
utilization for 330 days of operation.



ANNEX 6-1
Page 2
force corresponding to full production will have been
hired by the end of 1978 since the personnel will need
the first years of operations for further training and
improvement. Total labor costs are therefore constant
starting in 1978.
(b)  Material, Supplies, Spares, Utilities and Bags:  A constant
consumption per ton of cement produced has been assumed
from the beginning of production except for refractories.
Consumption of refactories is especially sensitive to the
operational experience of the personnel and is expected
to be higher during first years of production than during
the later years when the personnel's operating skills will
have improved with experience. Consumption of refractories
per ton of cement has therefore been assumed 20% higher
for 1978-80 than by 1981 and beyond as explained in para.
5 below.
(c)  Miscellaneous:  Administrative expenses and other costs
are assumed constant and independent of production levels.
Technical assistance and duties vary as explained in
paras. 10 and 11 below.
3.        At full production, operating costs expressed in 1976 real terms
would be in the order of 73 to 75 DH/ton of cement. This production cost is
in line with those of similar new plants in North Africa. Unit operations
cost in 1982 (when full production is reached, and taxes are still limited)
are composed of the following:
Average Production Costs (1982)
(in 1976 real terms)
DH per ton           %
- Labor                                   7.43           10.2
- Material, Supplies, Spares             15.46           21.2
- Utilities                              34.73           47.7
- Bags                                   11.34           15.6
- Miscellaneous Expenses                  3.83            5.3
Total                               72.79          100
The various costs components are detailed below:
Labor
4.        Labor cost estimates are based on actual 1976 salaries paid to
already recruited CIOR personnel and on salary scales recommended by the
detailed personnel recruitment and planning study carried out by the con-
sultants Maghreb Projets. These salary scales are on the average 60% higher



ANNEX 6-1
Page 3
than the minimum legal Moroccan scale (SMIG 1/ of 1.26 DH per hour) and are
also generally higher than salaries paid in comparable industrial enterprises
located in the more developed Western regions of Morocco, to compensate for
CIOR's somewhat remote location. Labor cost estimates include about 35%
social benefits, housing allowance and bonuses. Salaries of personnel se-
conded by APCM under technical assistance are not included in this item but
included in the cost item "Technical Assistance" under "Miscellaneous Costs".
Special training and recruitment of most personnel (detailed in Annex 4-7) are
scheduled to be completed before start of operations and are covered in the
preoperating expenses. Labor costs during operations can be split into the
following categories:
Number of Employees      Labor Cost
(million DH)
Direct Labor                      164               2720
Maintenance and Support           162               3370
Administration                    114               2630
440               8720
Materials, Supplies, Spares
5.        Requirements in refractories, grinding media, explosives, lubricants
and other sundry materials and consumption of spares have been elaborated on
the basis indicated by APCM and costed at prices currently paid in Morocco.
Consumption of refractories has been estimated at 1200 g and 1000 g per ton
of cement produced, respectively for 1978-1980 and 1981 and beyond. Average
price of refractories of which about 90% would have to be imported is esti-
mated at 2200 DH/ton delivered at the plant. Consumption of grinding media
has been assumed at 500 g/ton of cement produced. The cost of grinding media
which are imported has been assumed at 5500 DH/ton. Consumption of explosives
is estimated at 240 g/ton of limestone. Most items except lubricants will
have to be imported and eventual production of explosives in Morocco is also
being studied. Average cost of sundries including essentially explosives,
lubricants and fuel for vehicles is estimated at 2 DH/ton of cement. Con-
sumption of spares has been assumed at 7 DH/ton of cement. Gypsum will be
purchased from a quarry 45 km from the plant at an estimated cost of 30.0 DH
per ton in crushed form and including transport.
Utilities
6.        Fuel oil is presently sold in Morocco at a uniform ex-refinery
price of 213 DH/ton (US$47.30) which is still subsidized. With a transport
cost of 54 DH/ton the total price of fuel delivered at the plant would amount
1/   SMIG:  Salaire Minimum Interprofessionnel Guaranti.



ANNEX 6-1
Page 4
to 267 DH/ton. Assuming a specific heat consumption of 830 kcal/kg of clinker
as guaranteed by the equipment supplier and using fuel with a specific heat
value of 9,700 kcal/kg, the consumption and cost per ton of clinker would
respectively amount to 85.5 kg of fuel and 22.82 DH.
7.        Consumption of electricity has been assumed at 116 KWh per ton of
cement which is conservative. Taking into account the various components of
power tariffs (subscribed maximum capacity, average demand, annual consump-
tion, consumption during and consumption outside peak hours) and the fast
increase in tariff in January 1976, the average cost would amount to 0.112
DH/KWh including a 6.8% tax. The corresponding cost per ton of cement is
about 13 DH.
Paper Bags
8.        It is assumed that 90% of CIOR's production would be sold in bags
and 10% in bulk. The present cost of 3-ply bags in Casablanca is 613 DH per
thousand corresponding to about 630 DH per thousand delivered at CIOR's plant.
Miscellaneous
9.        Administrative expenses include office expenses, insurance, audit
fees, car expenses and miscellaneous overhead but not salaries. These
expenses have been estimated in detail in light of present expenses of CIOR
and actual expenses of existing cement producers in Morocco. They are
equivalent to 40% of labor cost.
10.       Technical assistance provided by a foreign cement producer has been
estimated at 5, 3 and 1-man year respectively for the first, second and third
years of production.
11.       Miscellaneous taxes and duties on vehicles, buildings, etc.,
estimated at about DH1.0 million will have to be paid starting the first
year of production. In addition, starting the sixth year of production an
estate tax "patente" will be paid based on the rental value (10%) and capacity
of the plant of about DH 1.4 million. Taxes on some goods and services (TPS)
incorporated or destroyed in the production such as refractories are to be
paid but will be recouped directly through the TPS on sales. Taxes on other
goods (spares and grinding media) will have to be fully paid; these taxes
including TPS, and for imported goods a special tax, import duties and stamp
tax, range up to a maximum of 35.7%. These taxes on production inputs have
been included in the corresponding production cost items.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 6-1
Page 5
MOAOCCO - CIO. CaENT PROJECT
TABLL I
PROJECTED "PERATING ODSTS
(DH million - 1976 Constant Terms)
1978      1979      1980       1981      1982       1983-92
PRODUCTION (000 TONS)---                                                          ___
Clinker                       186       782       893       1005      1117         1117
Ordinary Cement               195       821       938       1055      1173         1173
OPERATING COSTS
Labor
Direct                       0.91      2.72      2.72       2.72      2.72         2.72
Maintenance Support          1.12      3.37      3.37       3.37      3.37         3.37
Administration               0.88      2.63      2.63       2.63      2.63         2.63
Sub-total              2.91       8.72      8.72       8.72      8.72        8.72
MATERIAL, SUPPLIES, SPARES
Refractories                 0.51      2.17      2.48       2.32      2.58         2.58
Grinding Media               N.54      2.26      2.58       2.90      3.23         3.23
Sundries                     0.39      1.64      1.88       2.11      2.35         2.35
Spare Parts                  1.37      5.75      6.57       7.39      8.21         8.21
Gypsum                       0.28      1.17      1.34       1.51      1.67         1.67
Sub-total              3.09      12.99     14.85      16.23     18.04       18.04
UTILITIES
Fuel                         4.24     17.85     20.38      22.93     25.49        25.49
Electricity                  2.54     10.67     12.19      13.72     15.25       15.25
Sub-total              6.78      28.52     32.57      36.65     40.74       40.74
PAPER BAGS                   2.21      9.31     10.64      11.96     13.30       13.30
MISCELLANEOUS
Administration Expenses      1.16      3.49      3.49       3.49      3.49        3.49
Technical Assistance         0.70      2.10      1.26       0.42       -           -
Duties Taxes                 0.33      1.00      1.00       1.00      1.00        3.40
Sub-total              2.19       6.59      5.75      4.91       4.49        6.89
TOTAL                 17.18      66.13     725        78.47     85.29       87.69
OPERATING COSTS/TON (DH)       88        81        77         74        73          75
90% bagged and 10% bulk cement
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976



ANNEX 6-2
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION COST PROJECTIONS
1.        Since revenues used for the financial projections (Annexes 6-3 to
6-6) are derived from sales at the factory gate or distribution terminal
gate, the distribution costs to be taken into account are the costs incurred
in making the cement available at the gate of the factory or the terminals.
Since all sales in the Oriental Region are assumed to be made from the plant
gate itself no specific distribution costs should therefore be considered
for the sales in the Oriental. Only salaries of CIOR's commercial department
personnel should be added while administrative and other expenses relating to
distribution are already covered by the "miscellaneous" expenses for CIOR as a
whole, included in the operating costs projections of Annex 6-1. Salaries of
distribution personnel have been taken into account as follows: (i) salaries
of the personnel attached to the main office in Oujda (estimated at about 20
persons) are considered separately; and (ii) salaries of personnel of the
distribution terminal is included in the operating costs of these. For the
sales (outside the Oriental), as detailed in Annex 3-3 CIOR's distribution
activities outside the Oriental would essentially consist of the transport of
up to 500,000 tpy of cement to and operation of a main distribution terminal
in Fez, and for a shorter period transport of smaller quantity to the distri-
bution facilities of another cement company or railway station in Casablanca.
2.        Transport costs have been calculated on the basis of present ONCF
tariffs for cement amounting to a base charge of 3.48 DH/ton plus a charge of
0.073 DH/tkm.
3.        Distribution costs pertaining to the Fez terminal include operating
costs as well as the capital cost of the terminal, not included in the capital
costs used for the financial projections. The transport/handling system assumed
for the purpose of these projections is the alternative with transport in bulk
to a bulk terminal in Fez, and transport of bags in ordinary box cars and manual
handling of individual bags for the sales in the Casablanca areas.
4.        Under the above assumptions, the total distribution costs during the
years of peak sales outside the Oriental would be the following:



ANNEX 6-2
Page 2
Distribution Costs
(DH million - 1976 real terms)
1982     1985
Production distributed outside the Oriental ('000 tons)           633       493
Salaries Main Commercial Office                                 0.59      0.59
Cost of transport to Casablanca                                 15.56     2.83
Cost of transport to Fez                                         7.59    10.84
Costs of Fez terminal
Incremental Operating Cost /a                              0.44      0.58
Depreciation                                               0.96      0.96
Financial Charges & Return on investment                   1.67      1.67
Subtotal                                                       3.07    3.21
Total                                                     26.81   19.47
/a   For bagging and loading in Fez instead of at the Oujda plant.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1977



ANNEX 6-3
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
NOTES TO FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.        The financial projections are based on the production plan outlined
in Annex 6-1. Production is expected to start in the second half of 1978 and
to reach full capacity by 1982. In order to adequately reflect CIOR future
cash position, all financial projections are given in nominal terms or current
prices.
Net Sales
2.        The Moroccan authorities have agreed to introduce a new cement
pricing system whereby inter alia, ex-factory prices would be set at such
levels and incentives granted to new producers so as to allow the industry as
a whole to earn a return of at least 10% on net fixed assets as periodically
revalued. Also, prices would be fixed periodically with intermediate adjust-
ment for changes in unit costs of major inputs. Under this system CIOR could
expect for its first years of operations until 1980 net revenues consisting
of official ex-factory sales prices plus incentives equivalent to 180 DH/ton
in 1976 real terms. After 1980, incentives may no longer be necessary and net
revenues are assumed to decline to DH 150/ton equivalent. For the purpose of
financial projections and financial rate of return calculations the following
average (bagged and bulk) realized prices ex-factory have been assumed
DH/ton                  DH/ton
real terms             nominal terms
1978                   180                       204
1979                   180                       218
1980                   180                       233
1981                   180                       249
1982                   150                       223
1983                   150                       239
1984                   150                       255
1985                   150                       272
1986                   150                       292
3.        The new pricing system will cover in a similar manner the distribu-
tion terminals by taking into account transport costs to and operating costs
of the terminals, and ensuring an adequate return on net fixed assets for the
distribution facilities. On its sales outside the Oriental through distribu-
tion facilities in Fez and Casablanca CIOR will thereby earn in addition to
the ex-factory revenues, distribution fees covering the distribution opera-
tions. These distribution fees will be covered under separate accounts and
handled by the pricing system separately from the revenues from ex-factory



ANNEX 6-3
Page 2
sales. Projections of these fees including transport costs, operating costs
and return are given in Annex 6-2. In the financial projections gross sales
are given as the sum of ex-factory revenues and distribution fees.
Inflation Rates for Operating Costs
4.        Projections of operating costs in constant 1976 prices are shown in
Annex 6-1, Table 1. Based on these costs, inflation has been computed with
the following annual rates: 8% p.a. in 1976, 7% p.a. in 1977 and thereafter.
These rates represent average inflation rates and are based on a projected
domestic inflation of 7% p.a. and average world inflation rates gradually
declining from 10% in 1976 to 7% in 1977 and thereafter.
Depreciation
5.        Depreciation has been calculated according to normal practices in
the Moroccan industry. The depreciation periods are the following:
3 years: engineering and preoperating expenses
5 years: interest during construction and mobile equipment
15 years: fixed mechanical equipment and electrical equipment
20 years: buildings, civil works and infrastructure
Depreciation is calculated on the estimated value of each item, comprising
purchase price, freight, duties, contingencies and escalation. Depreciation
(as well as financial charges) does not include that of the distribution
facilities outside the Oujda plant, which is covered in the distribution
fees.
Financial Charges
6.        Interest during construction is capitalized, whereas financial
charges after startup of production are charged to the income statement
starting with the last quarter of 1978. They have been calculated on the
following assumptions:
IBRD-Loan:  The Bank loan of US$45 million equivalent (DH 202.5 million)
for the Oujda plant will be lent to CIOR for 14 years includ-
ing 3 years of grace, at an interest rate of 8.5 percent per
annum plus a guarantee fee of 1.5% p.a. payable to the
Government. In addition, a commitment fee of 0.75% p.a. will
be charged to CIOR based on the undisbursed amount of the
loan. Repayment of the loan is on the basis of equal
principal payments.
TREASURY
ADVANCE:    Assurances have been received that remaining loan funds
totalling DH 256.5 million will be provided by the Govern-
ment. These treasury advances would be for 17 years in-
cluding 3 years at grace at 6.5% interest p.a. Loan
repayment in equal principal payments has been assumed.



ANNEX 6-3
Page 3
MEDIUM-
TERM LOAN:  A short/medium-term loan equivalent to the working capital
requirement, i.e., about DH 31.6 million, will be provided
by a group of local banks according to standard financing
practices in Morocco. This group of banks would consist of
possibily half a dozen Moroccan banks including BMCE 1/. The
loan would consist of a combination of renewable overdraft
facilities and loans secured by inventories. Terms and
conditions of these loans have not yet been finalized; the
interest rate will depend on the current short-term interest
rate prevailing at the time this loan will be made. For the
financial projections, an interest rate of 9% and repayment
in 2 years have been assumed.
Taxes
7.        Duties and indirect taxes are comprised in operating costs (Annex
6-1). In Morocco, corporate income tax ranges from 40% to 48% on net profit,
the rate of 48% applying on the amounts of net profit exceeding DH 2 million.
However under the investment incentives granted to CIOR, this tax will be
waived for the first ten years of operation.
Allocation of Net Profits and Dividends
8.        Under the Moroccan commercial law, corporations have to set aside
each year 5% of the net profit after tax for the legal reserve until the
acumulated amounts reach 10% of equity. In addition, corporations must
retain each year 8% of the net profit before tax as an Investment Reserve
of which 50% is to be used for the purchase of State Investment Bonds carry-
ing an interest of 5% p.a. and are reimbursable after 10 years. Further,
in accordance with the investment convention granted by the Government,
dividend distribution in any one year may not exceed 12% of equity.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1977
1/   Banque Marocaine du Commerce Exterieur.



AnNEX 6-4
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
(DR million - current terms)
1978       1979       1980        1981       1982       1983        1984       1985        1986       1987
CEMENT PRODCTION (000 TONS)               195       821        938         1055       1173        1173       1173        1173       1173       1173
SALES
Sales (Ex-Factory)                   39.81      179.34     219.25      263.86     261.59     279.90      299.49     320.45      342.89     366.89
Distribution Fee                        -        23.48      27.62       34.14      38.52       35.32      30.85      30.06       26.93      26.01
Sub Total                        39.81     202.82     346.87     298.00      300.11     315.22      330.34     350.51     369.82      392.90
COSTS OF GOODS SOLD
Direct Labor                           1.03       3.30       3.53        3.78       4.04       4.33        4.63       4.95        5.30       5.67
Supplies & Spares                      3.50      15.76      19.27       22.54      26.82       28.70      30.70      32.85       35.15      37.61
Utilities                              7.69      34.61      42.30       50.92      60.57       64.81      69.34      74.20       79.39      84.95
Maintenance Labor                      1.27       4.09       4.38        4.68       5.01        5.36       5.74       6.14        6.57       7.03
Paper Bags                             2.51      11.30      13.81       16.62      19.78       21.16      22.64      24.23       25.92      27.74
Sub Total                       16.00       69.06      83.28       98.55     116.22     124.35      133.05     142.37      152.33     163.00
GROSS PROFIT                             23.81     133.76      163.59     199.45     183.89      190.87     191.29      208.14     217.49      229.90
OPERATING EXPENSES
Administration                         2.31       7.43       7.95        8.50       9.10        9.74      10.42      11.15       11.93      12.76
Technical Assist.                      0.79       2.55        1.64       0.58        -           -          -           -          -           -
Duties Taxes                           0.37       1.21       1.30        1.39       1.49        5.41       5.79       6.19        6.63       7.09
Depreciation
- plant                             17.10      68.41      68.41      63.63       49.29      48.18       44.87      44.87       44.87      44.87
distribution facilities             -         0.96       0.96        0.96       0.96       0.96        0.96       0.96        0.96       0.96
Sub Total                       20.58       80.56      80.25      75.07       60.84      64.28       62.03      63.17       64.38      65.68
OPERATING PROFIT                          3.23      53.20       83.34     124.38     123.05      126.59     135.26      144.97     153.11     164.22
FINANCIAL CHARGES                         9.07      40.68       37.78      35.88      31.97       29.04      26,15       23.26      20.35       17.45
DISTRIBUTION EXPENSES
Transport
- Fez                                 -         2.54       4.51        6.01       7.59       9.52       11.52      10.84       11.02       9.76
- Casablanca                          -        14.15      14.15       15.80      15.56       9.90        3.77       2.83         -          -
Operation of Distribution
Terminals                             -         0.20        0.20       0.40       0.44        0.51       0.60        0.58       0.59       0.54
Sub Total                          -        16.89      18.86       22.21      23.59      19.93       15.89      14.25       11.61      10.30
NET PROFIT BEFORE TAX                    (5.84)     (4.37       26.70      66.29      67.49       77.62      93.22      107.46     121.15      136.47
Corporate Tax                           -                     -           -          -           -          .          -           -
NET PROFIT AFTER TAX                     (5.84)     (4.37)      26.70      66.29      67.49       77.62      93.22      107.46     121.15      136.47
Dividends                               -          -        23.50       39.30      39.30       39.30      39.30       39.30      39.30      39.30
RETAINED EARNINGS                        (5.84)     (4.37)       3.20      26.99      28.19       38.32      53.92       68.10      81.85       97.17
EX-FACTORYS COST/TON (DR/TON)             234        228         211        194        175         183        186         192        199         20)7
Industrial Projects Department
March 1977



MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(DH Million - current terms)
1975       1976        1977       1978        1979       1980        1981        1982        1983       1984        1985        1986
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Cash from Operations
Depreciation                      -           -           -        17.10      69.37       69.37       64.49      50.25       49.14       45.83       45.83      45.83
Net Profit after Taxes
and Dividends                   -           -          -         (5.84)      (4.37)      3.20       26.99      28.19       38.32       53.92       68.10      81.85
Sub Total                    -           -          -         11.26      65.00       72.57       91.48      78.44       87.46       99.75      113.93     127.68
Capital                           75.00       90.55      162.45        -           -           -          -           -           -          -           -
Loans
IBRD                              -           -       128.70       70.60        3.20        -           -           -          -           -           -
Treasury Advances                  -          -         98.70     142.60       13.60              -           -      
Medium Term Local                 -           -           -        31.57         -                      -           -           -                -           -
Sub Total                    -           -       227.40      244.77       16.60        -           -           -          -           -           -
TOTAL SOURCES                      75.00      90.55      389.85     255.03       81.60       72.57      91.48       78.44       87.46       99.75     113.93      127.60
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Fixed Assets
Distribution Facilities           -           -           -        12.50        6.80         -          -           -           -          -           -
Plant                           51.30      114.25      382.85     179.20       10.00         -          -           -           -           _          _
Replacement                        -          -           -          -           -                                16.86         -           -          -
Interest during Construction      _           -          7.00      21.50         -          -           -           -           -          -           -
Sub Total                  51.30      114.25     389.85      213.20       16.80        -           -         16.86         -          -           -
Change in Working Capital         23.70      (23.70)        -        31.57        7.49        4.04       4.36        0.74        3.06        2.99       3.39        3.64
Loan Repayments
IBRD                              -           -           -          -           -         9.20       18.40       18.40       18.40      18.40       18.40       18.40
Treasury Advances                  -          -           -           -          -         18.20      18.20       18.20       18.20       18.20       18.20      18.20
Medium Term Local                  -          -           _           -        31.57         -          -           -           -           -           -           -
Sub Total                    -           -          -           -         31.57      27.40       36.60       36.60       36.60      36.60       36.60       36.60
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 75.00      90.55      389.85     256.03       25.74       41.13      50.52       24.24       47.80       60.16       73.54      87.36
Annual Surplus                       -          _           _        11.26       25.74       41.13      50.52       24.20       47.80       60.16       73.54      87.36
Cumulative Surplus                   -          -           -        11.26       37.00       78.13     128.65      152.85      200.65      260.80      334.35    4217.71
Industrial Projects Department
March 1977



MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
(DH million - current terms)
1975       1976        1977        1978        1979         1980        1981        1982        1983         1984        1985         1986
ASSETS
Current Assets
Surplus Cash/Banks                                                      11.26       37.00       37.00        37.00       37.00       37.00        37.00       37.00       37.00
Cash for Operation                 25.10          -           -          1.65        1.76        1.89         2.02        2.16        2.31         2.47        2.65         2.83
Accounts Receivable                   -                       -         11.06       17.66       21.54        25.88       26.38       28.21        30.17       32.27        34.51
Inventories                          -            -           -         23.66       24.78       25.96       27.07        28.58       30.29        31.83       33.66       35.63
Sub Total                     25.10         -           -         47.63        81.20       86.39       91.97       94.12        97.81      101.47      105.58       109.87
Fixed Assets
Gross Assets                       51.30      165.55       555.40      768.60      785.40      785.40       785.40      802.26      802.26       802.26      802.26      802.26
Less Accum. Deprec.                  -           _            -         17.10       86.47      155.84      220.03       270.58      319.72       365.55      417.38      457.21
Net Fixed Assets                   51.30      165.55       555.40      751.50      698.93      629.56      565.37       531.68      482.54      436.71       390.88      345.05
Other Assets-'                       -            -           -           -           -         41.13        91.65      115.85      163.65       223.81      297.35      384.71
TOTAL ASSETS                  76.40      165.55      555.40      799.13       780.13      757.08      748.99      741.65       744.00      761.99       793.81      839.73
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                    1.40          -           -          4.80        5.14        6.28         7.51        8.93         9.56       10.22       10.94        11.71
Cur. Port. of Lt Debt                -            -           -         31.57       27.40       36.60        36.60       36.60       36.60        36.60       36.60        36.60
Sub Total                      1.40         -           -         36.37        32.54       42.88       44.11       45.53        46.16       46.82        47.54       48.31
Long & Medium Term Debt
Foreign                               -           -        128.70      199.30      202.50      193.30       174.90      156.50      138.10       119.70      101.30        82.90
Local                                _            _         98.70      241.30      227.90      199.10       182.00      163.45      145.25       127.06      108.46        90.16
Sub Total                       -           _        227.40      440.60      430.40       393.21      356.90      319.95       283.35      246.76       209.76      173.06
Capital
Share Capital plus Other           75.00      165.55       328.00      328.16      320.00      328.00       328.00      328.00      328.00       328.00      328.00       328.00
Initial Capital
Retained Earnings (Loss)                     -          -               (5.84)    (10.21)        (7.01)      19.98       48.17       86.49       140.41      208.51       290.36
Sub Total                     76.40      165.55      328.00      322.16       317.79      320.99      347.98      376.17       414.49      468.41       536.51      618.36
TOTAL LIABILITIES             76.40      165.55      555.40      799.13       780.13      757.08      748.99      741.65       744.00      761.99       793.81      839.73
Current Ratio                        -            -           -          1.3         2.5         2.0          2.1         2.1          2.1         2.1          2.2         2.3
Debt/Equity Ratio                  0:100      1:100       41:59        57:43       57:43       55:45        51:49       46:54       41:59        34:66       28:72        22:82
Debt Service  Coverage               -            -           -         1.35        1.46         1.72        1.74        1.62         1.73        2.00        2.26         2.60
1/ Provision for Revaluation and Replacement.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1977



ANNEX 6-7
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIMA CEMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Assumptions
1.        The financial rate of return calculations cover only costs and
benefits of the cement plant, i.e., they do not include costs and revenues
from the distribution operations which will be treated separately under the
new pricing system and do not directly affect CIOR's financial results (for
details see Annexes 6-3, para 3). Cost streams are derived from the capital
cost estimates and financial projections. They exclude financial charges and
depreciation but include periodical replacement of equipment. They have been
valued in 1976 real terms by deflating current values by the average world
inflation rate which is assumed to be 8% in 1976, 7% in 1977 and thereafter.
2.        The benefits stream consists of the revenues from sales ex-factory;
in line with the cost streams they exclude the fees for distribution of
cement. Revenues are based on real term revenue projections given in
Annex 6-3.
3.        Other basic assumptions used in the financial rate of return
calculations are as follows:
Construction period:   4 years
Life of the project:  20 years
Working capital:       fully recovered at the end of project life
Scrap value:           20% of the initial value of fixed assets
in 1976 terms.
4.        The financial rate of return, thus calculated, is 10.0%.  Results
of the sensitivity analysis are given on page 3 of this Annex.



ANNEX 6-7
Page 2
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
(DH million - 1976 real terms)
Capital               Operating
Year                Costs                  Costs                  Revenues
1975                51.30
1976               114.25
1977               361.18                    -                        -
1978               192.43                  19.18                    35.10
1979                10.34                  66.13                   147.78
1980                 1.01                  72.52                   168.84
1981                 0.98                  78.47                   189.90
1982                12.52                  85.29                   175.95
1983                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1984                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1985                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1986                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1987                16.47                  87.69                   175.95
1988                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1989                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1990                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1991                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1992                16.47                  87.67                   175.95
1993                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1994                                       87.69                   175.95
1995                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1996                16.47                  87.69                   175.95
1997                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1998                  -                    87.69                   175.95
1999              (174.81)                 87.69                   175.95
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 6-7
Page 3
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
SENSITIVITY TESTS ON FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
15%
s4 1 0. 0%/                             
0
-20        -10          0            10          20
**--]Jecrease                      Increase-r
% Variation of Input
Case            Capital             Operating           Revenue            Rate of
Cost                Cost              ______CReturn  (%)
1   Base Case     100                  100                100              10.0
2                 105                  100                1009.
3                 110                  100                100               8.8
8        95                 ~~~~~~100            100             10.6.
5                 100                  110                100               8.6
6                 100                  120                100               7.6
7                 100                   90                100              10.6
8                 100                  110                110              10.8
9                 100                  100                 907.
10                 100                  100                110              12.2
Industrial Projects Department
March 1977



MOROCCO-CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
BREAK-EVEN POINT ANALYSIS
1. The break-even points of the CIOR plant have been calculated on the basis of costs, expressed in current
terms, in the years 1980 and 1982 (when the plant reaches full production and sale price decreases to DH 150/ton
in real terms)
2. The following basic data were used to determine the break-even points:
1980                                    1982
Cement Production (000 tons)                         938                                    1173
Net Sales (DH million)                             219.25                                  261.59
Costs (DH million)                  Fixed        Variable     Total           Fixed      Variable      Total
Direct Labor                    3.00          0.53        3.53            3.43          o.61       4.04
Material, Supplies, Spares      4.82         144.5       19.27            6.70         20.12      26.82
Utilities                       6.35         36.95       42.30            9.09         51.48      60.57
Bags                             -           13.81       13.81                         19.78      19.78
Maintenance Labor               3.72          0.66        4.38            4.26          0.75       5.01
Administration                  9.59           -          9.59            9.10                     9.10
Taxes                           1.04          0.26        1.30            1.20          0.29       1.49
Depreciation                   68.41           -         68.41           49.29            -       49.29
Financial Charge               37.78           -         37.78           31.97            -      31.97
Total                  134.71          65.66     200.37          115.04         93.03    208.07             0 
Percentage              66.8           33.2      100.0            54.70         45.30    100.0
Debt Repayment (DH million)                        27.40                                    36.60                          O
Profit Break-even Point                            68.5                                     67.7
(% of capacity) j/
Cash Break-even Point                              47.7                                     59.4
(% of capacity) /
j/   On the basis of the nominal capacity of 1.2 million tpy
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 6-8
Page 2
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
PROFIT BREAK-EVEN POINT YEAR 1982
300.0
267.6
210.*2
200.0-
Fixed Costs           115.n
100.0                                                                 95.2
20          40          60          80          100
Percentage of Capacity (%)
Industrial Projects Department
February 1977



ANNEX 7-1
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
1.        The economic cost/benefit streams shown on page 3 of this Annex
have been calculated on the following basis: (a) all costs and revenues
are expressed in real 1976 prices; (b) the benefit stream is based on the
opportunity cost of importing cement, since it is expected that without CIOR,
Morocco would have to import an equivalent amount of cement; (c) production
costs are calculated using world market prices for main inputs; (d) transport
and distribution costs of CIOR cement sold in regions other than the Oriental
have been added to the cost streams; and (e) all transfer payments are ex-
cluded. However, no shadow pricing of the foreign exchange has been employed.
2.        Cost and benefit streams for the calculation of the economic rate
of return are based on the capital cost estimates and financial projections
with the following adjustments:
(a) Benefits. Net sales are valued at DH 210 (US$46.7)
per ton of bagged cement and DH 187.5 per ton (or US$5 less)
for bulk cement. These prices which reflect the actual
economic cost of cement imports in Morocco in the second half
of 1976, consisting of a C & F cost of US$39.80 Moroccan port and
a total of US$6.90 of in insurance, handling and other port
charges. These prices also represent an average between
lower price in early 1976 and higher prices announced by
Mediterranean cement exporters for 1977. The C & F cost of
about US$40 ton represent a decrease in real terms from the
prices experienced in 1974-75 (also of about US$40 but
in current terms) and can be considered as conservative long
term estimate of cement prices in the Mediterranean market.
(b) Capital Costs of the plant have been decreased by DH 31 mil-
lion by excluding taxes and duties and shadow pricing labor.
To reflect the high rate of unemployment in the Oriental region
unskilled labor has been shadow priced at 75% of the market
price for civil works, infrastructure and equipment installation.
Scrap value has been assumed at 20% of initial cost for the plant
and infrastructure, and at 100% for the working capital.
(c) Operating Costs. Fuel and electricity prices in Morrocco are
heavily subsidized. Therefore, to reflect real economic costs
electricity costs have been increased by 50% above tariffs
prevailing in Morocco. In addition, fuel costs have been valued
at December 1976 world market prices (US$12.10/barrel) resulting
in a delivered price of US$75/ton which is about 26% above the
present domestic price. Further the cost of unskilled labor
has been shadow-priced at 75% of its financial cost.



ANNEX 7-1
Page 2
(d) Transport/Distribution Costs have been taken into account
for the cement sold by CIOR outside the Oriental for about
12 years. For the limited sales in Casablanca only cost
of rail transport has been included under the assumption that
CIOR's cement delivered at the railway station or distribu-
tion facilities of other cement producers in Casablanca,
would have the same opportunity value as imported cement
at the port of Casablanca. For CIOR's sales in the Fez
area cost of rail transport ass well as capital costs and
operating costs of a bulk receiving terminal have been
included. Cost of rail transport has been increased by 20%
above ONCF tariffs to about US$0.02/ton-km in line with the
cost of transport of bulk commodities in comparable Mediter-
ranean countries.
3.        Based on these assumptions the economic rate of return of the project
is 13.8%.  The cost/benefit streams are given in page 3 of this Annex and
sensitivity tests are detailed on page 4.
4.        The rate of return has also been calculated under the assumption that
starting in 1985 CIOR would produce blast furnace cement with slag from the
SONASID project in Nador and thereby increase its output to 1.4 million tpy.
Assuming slag purchased in Nador at US$5.0/ton and an incremental operating
cost of DH 10.5/ton of cement produced, the rate of return of the project would
increase to 14.7%.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1977



ANNEX 7-1
Page 3
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
(DH million - 1976 real terms)
Capital Cost                          Transport &
Capital Cost      Distribution      Operating Cost      Distribution
Year         Plant          Facilities            Plant              Costs          Benefits
1975        50.5
1976       111.2
1977       345.0                 -                  _                  _
1978       184.8              14.5                18.3                 -             40.5
1979         8.4               4.2                74.5               14.9           170.6
1980         1.0                 -               82.2                19.3           194.5
1981         1.0                -                89.7                22.0           219.2
1982        12.5                -                 97.9               23.2           243.7
1983          -                 -                97.9                19.3          243.7
1984          -                 -                 97.9               15.9           243.7
1985          -                  -                97.9               13.5           243.7
1986          -                  -                97.9               12.1           243.7
1987        16.5                -                 97.9               10.8           243.7
1988          -                 -                 97.9                9.8           243.7
1989          -                                   97.9                8.7           243.7
1990          -                                   97.9                7.7           243.7
1991          -                 -                 97.9                6.2           243.7
1992        16.5                -                 97.9                4.9          243.7
1993          -                  -                97.9                3.6          243.7
1994          -                 -                97.9                 2.3          243.7
1995          -                -3.9              97.9                  -           243.7
1996          -                  -                97.9                 -           243.7
1997        16.5                 -               97.9                  -           243.7
1998          -                  -                97.9                 -           243.7
1999      (133.5)                -                97.9                 -           243.7
Industrial Projects Department
March 1977



ANNEX 7-1
Page 4
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
SENSITIVITY TESTS ON ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
20%
(13.8%)              ti
l07%
5%/
-20      -10             0           10          20
e    Decrease                       Increase-,
% Variation of Input
Capital Cost        Capital Cost          Operating   Transport               Rate of
Case   of Plant      Distribution Facilities  Cost Plant    Cost          Revenue  Return (%)
1          100                  100                  100         100       100        13.8
2          110                  100                  100         100       100        12.5
3           90                  100                 100         100        100        15.2
4          100                  150                  100        100        100        13.6
5          100                  100                 110         100        100        12.7
6          100                  100                 120         100        100        11.6
7          100                 100                   90         100        100        14.8
8          100                 100                  100         125        100        13.4
9          100                 100                  100         150        100        13.0
10          100                 100                  100         100         90        11.1
11          100                 100                  100         100         80         8.2
12          100                 100                  100         100        110        16.2
Industrial Projects Department
March 1977



MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EFFECTS
(DH Million - current terms)
1975      1976       1977       1978      1979       1980       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
1.   Foreign Exchange Inflow
Foreign Loansl/                                        -          -       128.70      70.60      3.20        -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -
2.   Foreign Exchange Outflow
Capital Expenditure2/                                27.50      46.24    176.80      94.76      12.00        -          -       13.45        -          -          _          _        27.44
Change in Working Capital                              -          -          -        6.10       1.45       0.78       0.84                             -                                -
Interest during Coantru-tion                           -          -         3.34     12.00                   -          -
Subtotal                                        27.50     46.24    180.14    112.86        13.45       0.78      0.84      13.49        -          _          _          _       27.44
Operating Expenses
Material, Supplies, Sparest/                      -          -          -        2.45      11.03      13.49      15.78     18.77      20.09      21.49      23.00      24.60      26.33      28.18
utilttiiss4/                                      -                     -        5.61      25.27      30.88      37.17     44.22      47.31      50.62      54.17      57.95      62.01      66.35
Paper bags                                        -          -          -        0.63       2.83       3.45      4.16       4.95       5.29       5.66       6.06       6.48       6.94       7.42
Technical Assistance                              -          -          -          .79      2.55       1.64        .58                                                              -          -
Subtotal                                          -                     -        9.48      41.68      49.46      57.69     67.94      76.69      77.77      83.23      89.03      95.38    101.95
Transportation & Distribution Casts./                   -         -          -          -         9.50     12.11      14.49      16.19     14.55      12.98      11.91      11.47      11.02      10.73
Debt Service
Principal Repaymenti/                             -          -                     -         -         9.20     18.40      18.40      18.40      18.40      18.40      18.40      18.40      18.40
Interestl/                                        -          _          -        4.30      17.20     16.80      15.60      14.10      12.50      10.90       9.40       7.80       6.30      4.70
Subtotal                                          -          -          _        4.30      17.20      25.00     34.00      32.50      30.90      29.30      27.80      26.20      24.70      23.10
Total Outflow                                         27.50     61.24    180.14    126.64       81.83      87.35    107.02    130.12    122.14    120.05    122.94    126.70    158.54    135.78
3.   Foreign Exchange Surplus (Deficit)                        (27.50)   (61.24)   (51.44)   (56.44)   (78.63)   (87.35)  (107.02)  (130.12)  (122.14)  (120.05)  (122.94)  (126.70)  (158.54)  (135.78)
4.   Less Foreign Exchange Savings-                                     -               -       39.74    179.02    218.72    263.28    313.34    335.27    358.74    383.85    410.72    439.47    470.23
5.   Foreign Exchange surplus (Deficit) Due to Project         (27.50)   (61.24)   (51.44)   (26.70)   100.39    131.37    156.26    183.22    213.13    238.69    260.91    284.02    280.93    334.45
1/  IBRD loan.
2/   Including expenditures en distribution facilities.
3/   707, of total material, supplies, and spares.
4/   75% and 25% respectively of fuel and power cost after removal of subsidies.
5/   407. of transport and distribution costs.
6/   Valued at the C&F crst of imported cement, inflated at 7% p.a.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1977



ANNEX 7-3
Page 1
MOROCCO - CIOR CEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF THE ORIENTAL REGION
A.    MAJOR CHARACTERISTICS OF THE ORIENTAL REGION
1.         The Oriental Region comprises the three provinces of Oujda, Nador
and Figuig and covers an area of about 48,000 km2 (107 of the total area of
Morocco). It is located in the eastern corner of the country, bordered by
the Mediterranean Sea, and Algeria in the northeast. About two third of its
surface consists of semi-desertic highlands and mountains, the rest con-
sisting of plains. The poDulation is estimated at 1.2 million (about 77 of
the total Moroccan population), of which two third live in the rural areas,
mainlv in the northern fertile part of the Oriental Region.
2.         Particularly when compared to the western part of the country, the
Oriental region is characterized bv underdevelooment. The agricultural
production is limited, except for small livestock production. With 10% of
the total area of Morocco, the Oriental region contributes onlv to about 5%
of the total agricultural production. This is mainly due to the lack of water,
the rainfall being under 400 imm per vear in most areas; and although, when
completed, the irrigation schemes will cover about 80,000 ha (20% of the
cultivated areas), the cultivable areas will still account for less than 10%
of the total area of the region. However, the semi-desertic highlands are
suitable for small livestock raising, and the region contributes to about 15%
of the sheep and goat production of Morocco.
3.         Regional output in the industrial sector is also below average with
the exception of the mining sector. This sector emplovs about 6,500 persons
which is equivalent to 20% of total emplovment in mining activities for the
whole country. The main minerals are coal and iron ore. Coal is mined in
Jerrada by the Charbonnages Nord-Africains which employ 4,300 workers. Annual
Droduction amounts to 56n,000 tons and is mostly used locallv for producing
electricity thus providing about 30% of the electricitv requirements of
Morocco.  Iron ore production from the open pit mine at Uixan declined from
1.6 million tons in 1060 to 230,000 tons in 1972 due to depletion of high grade
ore.  However, since then mining operations have been modernized and expanded,
a new concentration and pelletization Plant has been installed thus raising
output to about 850,000 tons of pellets per year which are mostly exported.  The
mining and concentrating operations are operated by SEFERIF I/ which employs
1,500 persons.  Other mines (lead and zinc) are of secondarv importance; they
1/    SEFERIF - Societe d'Exploitation des Mines du Rif.



ANNEX 7-3
Page 2
employ about 500 workers, and together with iron ore mines contribute to less
than 5% of total exports. Other industrial activities are limited; only
2 plants are of substantial size; the sugar mill of Zaio which employs
200 persons on a permanent basis and which produces annuallv around 25,000
tons of crude sugar, and the building materials plant nf Berkane which _
employs 150 persons and produces 70,000 meters of concrete pipes and chan-
nels per year. Other companies are small (less than 50 persons) and operate
mainly in the fields of food processing, building, and textiles.
4.         The region also suffers from its remote position far off the main
industrial regions of Morocco on the Atlantic coast. Despite its long coast
along the Mediterranean, the region does not have a major trading port. In-
dustrial goods have to be transported from the Casablanca-Rabat area 600 km
away or imported through Algeria which is even more difficult. The main
railway line. Casablanca-Fes-Algeria, passes by Oujda but has no connection yet
to the important areas of Nador and Berkane. The reasonably good road network
in the Oriental between the Atlantic coast is not used efficiently; transport,
including on long distances, is mostly carried out by small trucks of up
to 5.5 tons capacity, since private carriers are practically restricted
to this size of vehicles because of official regulations on freight rates and
licenses.
5.         As a result of underdevelopment, each year 3,000 people leave the
Oriental region: this figure is equivalent to half of the number of young
people who annuallv reach the working age (14-24 age group). In addition,
in the Oriental region, the active population accounts for onlv 20% of the
total Dopulation (vs 25% for the whole country), and the level of unemploy-
ment is substantiallv higher than for the rest of the country: according to
official figures, which tend to be underestimated, the unemployment rate in
the Oriental region is 15% whereas it averages 9% for Morocco as a whole.
6.         Although, the Oriental region is underdeveloped, many indicators
show that the standard of living of the population are comparable to the rest
of the country. For instance, the level of housing compares quite favorably
with other regions of Morocco: 23% of houses are below standard in the
Oriental region vs. 27% as an average for Morocco; 45% of the people own
their houses, whereas the national average stands at 37%. This situation is
also reflected in the level of education which is equivalent to that of the
whole country. Finally, it appears that savings are substantial but because
of limited investment opportunities in the Region, through the banking system
these savings are invested in the western part of Morocco. This contradiction
between the level of development of the region and the standard of living
of the population is due to the importance of remittances from Moroccan workers
living in Europe. According to estimates, one third of the 600,000 Moroccans
living abroad originate from the Oriental region. As a result, an average of
at least one person per family has emigrated to Europe and sends monthly back
to his familv, the equivalent of the minimum salary in Morocco.



ANNEX 7-3
Page 3
B.    GOVERNMENT POLICY FOR THE ORIENTAL, REGION
7.         With the Third Development Plan the Government is putting emrhasis
on regional development, and in this context, the Oulda-Nador areas have hee,t
selected as development poles with special priority. It is hoped that the
region will become Morocco's "door" into the Mediterranean. To achieve this
development objective, public investments amounting to 2 billion Dirham were
included in the Third Plan 1973-1977 (the investment figure was subsequenttly
re-evaluated). These investments for the Oriental region are equivalent to
8% of total public investments for Morocco and are much higher than those
ever obtained for this region. It is also expected that the public investments
will generate private investments of a same amount.
8.         The Government's develoDment policv for the Oriental region aims
at providing basic infrastructure and at exploiting and processing local
resources. In that respect, most investments have been planned in the mining
and agro-industrial sectors. The main project are the Nador iron and steel
works for which a new companv. SONASID (Societe Nationale de Siderurgie), has
been created. The cost of project is estimated at US$1,500 million. Using
imported ore and ore extracted near Nador, the Project will produce about
1 million tons of steel per year.  In conjunction with this project, the port
of Nador is being developed (estimated cost 235 million DH) by a Romanian
Companv. The building of a new railway line of about 140 km to connect the
Nador region with the main railway line Casablanca - Oudja, is under study.
It is also planned to double the coal production of the Jerrada mine to be
used as fuel to generate electricity. A lead foundry, promoted by BRPM 1/
is under construction, and will produce 35,000 tons of lead and 10 tons of
silver per year. In the agro-industrial sector, the main projects include:
a pulp and paper plant promoted by ODI will employ 700 persons on a permanent
basis and 3,000 on a temporary basis and will produce 60,000 tons of paper per
year, mainly for exports (estimated cost, 220 million DH)z a multipurpose food
canning plant "SICOR" (40 million DH), also promoted by ODI will employ
700 persons and transform products of the irrigated areas in the view of
exporting; the extension of the sugar mills of Zaio. Projects of building a
dairy products plant and a feed mill for livestock are under studv. In other
sectors, a textile plant (160 million DH), promoted by ODT will transform
14,000 tons of fiber cotton produced in the Nador area; a fabrics plant
jointly financed with a Hungarian company is expected to produce 2 million
trousers per year; a touristic complex is planned on the Mediterranean coast
(SAIDIA) and will be mainly promoted by private entrepreneurs.
I/    BRPM - Bureau de Recherches et de Participation Minieres, a Moroccan
firm.



ANNEX 7-3
Page 4
9.        Therefore, after many years of slow development following the
departure of expatriates from the Oudja region after Morocco's independence
from France, the cession of the Rif 1/ from Spain, and the troubled times
of Algeria's independence, the Oriental region is now likely to experience
an upswing in development stimulated by the Government.
C.   THE IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF THE REGION
10.       The economic and social impact of the project for the Oriental
region is expected to be substantial:
(a) Employment generation is also expected to be signifi-
cant. According to mission estimates, 1,200 people
will be employed for an average of 2 years during
the construction of the plant. Actual plant opera-
tion will create jobs for 440 people, all of which
will be Moroccan. Indirect employment effects of
cement plants, however, are far more important than
direct employment creation, particularly in the con-
struction industry and the tertiary sector.
(b) The project will improve the level of housing and
sustain the Government's effort in this field. Taking
into account that 45% of the cement production will be
used in housing and that in Morocco the building of a
dwelling requires on the average 9 tons of cement, it
is expected that the equivalent of 25,000 dwellings
will be built annually, improving the living standard
of about 125,000 people.
11.       These economic and social effects are an essential secondary bene-
fit of the project. Generally, it can be argued, that imported cement gen-
erates the same economic effects as locally produced cement supply. How-
ever, past experience shows that the Moroccan authorities are reluctant to
the importing of cement due to the stress on the balance of payment and it
is generally difficult to match imports in time and quantity with actual
demand. In addition, the Oriental Region faces transport problems which
compound the advantage of locally produced cement versus imported cement.
There is a high probability that the described economic and social impact
will occur on the following grounds:
(a) There is a real market for cement (see Annex 3-1) in
the area. The number of houses under construction
for instance is exceptionally high: the slow but
continuous progress of building of many houses
illustrates how these activities are fueled by a
continuous accumulation of savings.
1/   Northwestern part of Morocco - formerly Spanish Morocco.



ANNEX 7-3
Page 5
(b) The economic growth is going to take place at first
in the building sector as a result of the creation
of building enterprises and companies manufacturing
building materials and equipment. The development
of such enterprises relies directly on the resources
of the region, since these enterprises are usually
small and require much labor but limited capital and
technological input.
12.       Another consideration in evaluating the CIOR project is that there
are few alternative opportunities of investment existing in the Oriental
region for projects of this size. An exception is the steel project in
Nador; however, this plant will also benefit other regions where there is
a demand for steel.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1976






I BR D 12528
,p, < ;Jerez dplc     MALAGA                                     I, 0ECEMIER 197I
CEMENT PRODUCTIONUP A I I
; 0   S  S   >i+Er1                 \  . \i31 Z4    / t ;   r,,a  nb S  a 7           Soe a
KINGDOM  OF MOROCCO                                                                                                                U lIST
CIOR CEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                      6A CtzafmT4                                                                          Ora"- zt;   0, 
CEMENT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                       A PROUCIO UIT
*     EXISTING CEMENT PLANTS                                                                                 L a                    C                   IEIEhechRoSN          tdREULL         n    T4md- eI
A  EXPANSION TO EXISTING PLANTS                                                                                dI sre-e,
*    NEW PLANTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                               /  '               -    P                    Md                 Be\on
NEW PLANTS PLANNED                 A        I         n a      ;   c                                                  e      U                                                                       ThEMCE /.  os
DISTRtIXUTION CENTERS, PROPOSEDrb
_____MAIN ROADS 
________ SECONDARY ROADS                                        a    n             ,                                                                                                                              Amh.
-       TRACES                                                                               AKNDdoegl
RAILROADS. EXISTING
- RAILROADS, PLANNED                                                                                                           HaABA
+    AIRPORTS                                                                                                        rn,e
.,L  PORTS                                                       Aebonm                 ;ad-ElH
RIVERS
-. -. INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                         Te,d
TOSOO /             TOUI t                        OUUZUDSemteGumm                               ,,                                         Bc
EIIOMLERERS     2cO       25a                             "Wt         7cs/AIgUXO    -fi   .'         >  (        < ,             Tazzur ne     A,I-SU MdOel --Ta
|              h~~~~~~ISES                                                   +        -                                               
G.~
. m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s,E-                                                                 ouden/
.  L     X    (Akha       --~~~~~~~~~~ -  .                               /                       G              E               R              I            A~~oLh -n
(- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao                                                                   Bournaouhea
'1~~~~~~~i                    20        5.-- ne
/      0   Ir'<a Tan" |                                                                                                                                         L.
Sfir                       wa                                                                                  /Th hDI0I./r.; h1 :,;OM                                                                                                     11,,I  R2B
/ oTrfay   12-w                                                                                                                                                4beFri hdlSfrat/ISOr



