)7-7Z
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1383 MOR
SHAREHOLDER' S GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(CIOR Cement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OFFICE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
Dated April 29, 1977


﻿SHAREHOLDER'S GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 1977, between the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank), and the OFFICE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL (hereinafter
called the Guarantor-Shareholder).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween the Bank and Cimenterie de l'Oriental (hereinafter called
the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five million dol-
lars ($45,000,000) to assist in financing the Project described in
Schedule 2 to such Loan Agreement;
(B) such Loan of the Bank is guaranteed by the Kingdom of
Morocco (hereinafter called Morocco) pursuant to the Guarantee
Agreement of even date herewith between Morocco and the Bank;
WHEREAS the Guarantor-Shareholder, in consideration of the
granting of the above loan, is willing to undertake such obligations
as and under the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 5 to
the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being here-
inafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Loan
Agreement, in the General Conditions and in the Preamble hereto
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
the other covenants on its part in this Agreement contained, the
Guarantor-Shareholder, as primary obligor and not as surety
merely, unconditionally guarantees the due and punctual payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor-Shareholder shall exercise its
rights and powers as the controlling shareholder of the Borrower
and every other right, power or remedy available to it to permit
or cause the Borrower punctually to perform all its obligations
under the Loan Agreement and the Investment Convention.
Section 2.03. The Guarantor-Shareholder shall promptly sub-
scribe, and pay in, as and when required, the increased share
capital of the Borrower which may be needed to ensure the avail-
ability to the Borrower of sufficient funds to carry out the
Project or to meet its obligations under the Loan Agreement, as
the case may be; it being understood that such increase in the
share capital of the Borrower shall, for the purpose of the exe-
crtion and completion of Parts A, B and C of the Project, be at
least equal to an aggregate amount of DH35,000,000.


﻿Section 2.04. Whenever the Borrower notifies the Guarantor-
Shareholder that there is reasonable cause to believe that the
funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of Pmrts A,
B and C of the Project or for the carrying out of the operations
of the Borrower or for the compliance by the Borrower with its
obligations under the Loan Agreement and without limitation or
restriction upon the provisions of Sections 2.02 and 2.03 hereof,
the Guarantor-Shareholder shall make arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank to provide to the Borrower, promptly as needed and inter
alia for the timely execution and completion of Parts A, B and C
of the Project and for the operation of the facilities provided
thereunder, such additional funds as shall be necessary for the
purpose.
Section 2.05. It is expressly agreed by the Guarantor-
Shareholder that the principal and other amounts payable on the
outside debt of the Borrower shall first be paid before any pay-
ment or repayment is made on account of the funds provided in
Section 2.04 hereof in any given fiscal year.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Bank and the Guarantor-Shareholder
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan
will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and the Guarantor-
Shareholder shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Loan Agreement and of the Guarantor-Shareholder under this Agree-
ment and to other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Guarantor-Shareholder shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank all such information as shall be reasonably
requested concerning the matters specified in paragraph (a) of
this Section.
(c) The Guarantor-Shareholder shall promptly inform the
Bank of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to in-
terfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the
maintenance of the service thereof, the performance by the Borrower
of its obligations under the Loan Agreement or the performance by
the Guarantor-Shareholder of its obligations under this Share-
holder's Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.02. Until the Loan Agreement shall have terminated,
the Guarantor-Shareholder shall not, without the prior approval
of the Bank:


﻿- 6 -
(a) sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of any of its shares
of the Borrower or permit a change in the percentage of its hold-
ing of such shares, if such action would reduce its shareholdings
to less than 67% of the total shares of the Borrower; or
(b) consent to any amendment, abrogation, repeal or waiver
of the Statuts of the Borrower, or any provision thernof, which
would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the Effective Date of the Loan Agreement.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and the respective obligations
of the parties hereunder shtll terminate when the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
any of the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall have been delivered by hand or by
mail, tmLegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified, or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request.
Section 4.04. The obligations of the Guarantor-Shareholder
under this Agreement shall not be discharged except by performance
and then only to the extent of such performance. Such obligations
shall not be subject to any prior notice to, demand upon or action
against the Borrower or Morocco with regard to any default by the
Borrower or Morocco, and shall not be impaired by any of the
following: any extension of time, forebearance or concession given
to the Borrower or Morocco, any assertion of, or failure to assert,
or delay in asserting any right, power or remedy against the
Borrower or Morocco, or in respect of any security for the Bank's


﻿-8-
Loan; any modification or amplification of the provisions of the
Loan Agreement or of the Guarantee Agreement or of this Agreement
contemplated by the terms thereof; or any failure of the Borrower
to comply with any requirement of any law, regulation or order of
Morocco or of any political subdivision or agency of Morocco.
Section 4.05. The Guarantor-Shareholder shall furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or
persons who will, on behalf of the Guarantor-Shareholder, take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed by the Guarantor-Shareholder under this Agree-
ment and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.06. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 4.03 of this Agreement:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 HI Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
6145 (wUI)
For ODI:
Office pour le D6veloppement Industriel
10 rue Ghandi
Rabat, Morocco


﻿- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representative thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Share-
holder's Guarantee Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
OFFICE POUR LE DEVELOPPENENT INDUSTRIEL
By /s/ Abdelhadi Boutaleb
Authorized Representative


