(7; 7.
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1383 MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(CIOR Cement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CIMENTERIE DE L'ORIENTAL
Dated April 29, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and CIMENTERIE DE L'ORIENTAL (hereinafter called the Borrower),
a soci4t4 anonyme organized and existing under the laws of the
Kingdom of Morocco (hereinafter called the Guarantor).
WHEREAS (A) The Guarantor and the Borrower have requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of
the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided and the Bank has agreed to make
such Loan to the Borrower on the basis inter alia of the following;
(B) By a governmental guarantee agreement of even date here-
with between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed
to cause Part D of the Project to be carried out by all appropriate
entities or administrative services and to guarantee certain
obligations of the Borrower and Office pour le Dgveloppement
Industriel (hereinafter called ODI), as the case may be, with re-
spect to the Loan and to provide either one or both of them with
funds and other support for the Project, as fully set forth in
such agreement (hereinafter called the Guarantee Agreement);
(C) The Guarantor has granted to the Borrower investment
incertives for the Project, as set forth in the convention entered
into between the same parties on February 28, 1977 (hereinafter
called the Investment Convention); and


﻿-2-
(D) By a shareholder's guarantee agreement of even date here-
with between the Bank and ODI, ODI has agreed to guarantee certain
obligations of the Borrower with respect to the Loan and provide
the same party with funds and other support, as fully set forth
in such agreement (hereinafter called the Shareholder's Guarantee
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "ODI" means the Office pour le Dveloppement Industriel,
an etablissement public organized and existing under the laws of
the Guarantor;
(b) "outside debt" means the Loan, or any other loan which
the Borrower might contract for the purpose of the Project, other
than advances or contributions made by the Guarantor or ODI, as
the case may be;
(c) "subsidiary" means any corporation, a majority of whose
outstanding voting stock shall be owned, or which shall be effec-
tively controlled, by the Borrower or by one or more subsidiaries


﻿-4-
of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more of its subsid-
iaries;
(d) "Borrower's Statuts" means the Statuts of the Borrower
of June 15, 1976, as the same may be amended from time to time;
and
(e) "dirham" or "DH" means the currency of the Guarantor.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
tems and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five mil-
lion dollars ($45,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in ccordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of interest and other charges
on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest
and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before
the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-6-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil voi,as required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Guarantor, the Borrower and ODI of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿Section 2.09. The Borrower shall pay in dirhams to the
Guarantor a guarantee fee at the rate of 1.5% per annum on the
amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures
on Parts A and B of the Project and outstanding from time to time.
Such fee shall accrue from the respective dates on which amounts
shall be so withdrawn.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B
and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, accounting,
engineering and industrial practices.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into a transport contract with
ONCF, as provided in Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement. For
the purposes of this Section, the term "ONCF" shall mean Office
National des Chemins de Fer.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in
carrying out the study included in Part B (3) of the Project, the
Borrower shall, on or before April 1, 1977 (unless the Bank and
the Borrower shall otherwise agree) employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Not later than July 1, 1977, (unless the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree) the Borrower shall furnish such
study to the Bank for its review and comments and, within a period
of six weeks thereafter, the Bank shall furnish to the Borrower
its final comments thereon. Within a period of six weeks after
receipt of the Bank's final comments on said study, the Borrower
shall, in agreement with the Guarantor, determine, on the basis
of such study and comments, the location and type of distribution
facilities to be constructed under Part A (2) of the Project and


﻿-9-
cause, with the assistance of the Guarantor, such facilities to be
designed, constructed and commissioned in accordance with such
determination.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts A and
B of the Project against hazards incident to the acquisitlon, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated to Parts A and B of the Project to be used
exclusively for Part A or Part B of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and construction and procurement sched-
ules for Parts A and B of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of Parts A and B the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods, works and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in Parts A and B of the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the


﻿- 10 -
Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in Part A or Part B of the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Parts A and B of the Project and any relevant records and docuants;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A or Part B of the
Project, the expenditure of said proceeds of the Loan and the
goods, works and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in Parts A, B and C of the
Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisi-
tion, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to Parts A, B and C of
the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times conduct its
operations under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by qualified and experienced personnel in
adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing and in order to as-
sist the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts A and B of the
Project and the operation of the plant included therein the
Borrower: (i) shall make adequate and timely arrangements for the
recruitment and training of all the Borrower's personnel required
for its production, administration and distribution activities;
(ii) shall, on or before June 30, 1977 (unless the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree), employ accounting consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, for the purpose of
defining and implementing a system of general accounting, cost
accounting, cost control, budgeting and financial planning and
administrative organization, such system to be operative as and
when the Borrower commences its production; and (iii) shall, on
or before September 30, 1977 (unless the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree), propose to the Bank for its comments and
review technical assistance arrangements adequate to ensure the
efficient operation of the plant inch'ded in the Project and shall,
promptly after having received tb- Bank's comments thereon, enter
into such arrangements with persons or firms acceptable to the
Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against suich risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs and maintain its financial position in accordance with
appropriate industrial and financial practices and, in particular,
shall adequately maintain all the equipment and fixed assets
relevant or necessary to the carrying out of the Project and the
operation of its facilities provided thereunder, and promptly
as required make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof.
(b) Except as the Bwnk and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all licenses, consents or other rights as
may be necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower: (i) shall obtain title to all goods financed
in whole or in part with the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Parts A and B of the Project free and clear of all encumbrances;
and (ii) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
any of its property and assets except in the ordinary course of
business.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall not take any action to
establish or to acquire any sub idiary if, as the result thereof,
the carrying out of the Project or the financial position of the
Borrower would be materially and adversely affected.
(b) If the Borrower establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform
the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the extent to which
such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though
such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures
to ensure that Parts A, B and C of the Project are carried out, and
that the facilities provided thereunder are operated and maintained
with due regard to health, ecological and environmental factors.
To that end, the Borrower shall inter alia monitor pollution levels
during the operation of said facilities.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Investment Convention.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause the facilities pro-
vided under Parts C (1) and C (4) of the Project to be at all
times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate
financial, administrative, engineering and public utilities prac-
tices.


﻿- 14. -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate ac-
counting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) fur-
nish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or
stated in writing.


﻿- 15 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property, or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank not
later than 45 days after the end of each quarter:
(i) quarterly consolidated financial statements of the
Borrower (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and statements of sources and application
of funds); and
(ii) realistic forecasts on a pro forma basis of its
closing balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and statements of sources and application
of funds for the current fiscal year and the next
following fiscal year, and any revision thereof.


﻿- 16 -
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt if, after
the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be
greater than 1.5 times the consolidated capital and surplus of the
Borrower and all its subsidiaries.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action within its powers
to ensure that, at all times, its net revenues in any oie fiscal
year shall not be less than 1.5 times the amount required to
service its debt in each fiscal year.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by the
Borrower or any subsidiary maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred, including debt assumed or
guaranteed by the Borrower or by a subsidiary.
(ii) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include
any modification of the terms of payment of such
debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under
a loan contract or agreement on the date and to
the extent it is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.


﻿- 17 -
(iii) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of dirhams debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
(iv) The term "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all
its subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of
the Borrower and all its subsidiaries, excluding
any debt owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or
by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary.
(v) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of the
Borrower and all its subsidiaries" means the aggre-
gate of the total unimpaired capital, surplus and
free reserves of the Borrower and of all its sub-
sidiaries after excluding such items of capital,
surplus and free reserves as shall represent equity
interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of
such subsidiary in the Borrower or in any other
subsidiary.
(vi) The term "net revenues" means gross revenues from
all sources less operating and administrative ex-
penses including taxes and other levies, if any,
but before provision for depreciation and interest
and other charges on debt.


﻿- 18 -
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all action required on its part to request
and c7atain promptly as needed such funds as the Guarantor or ODI,
as the case may be, has undertaken to provide or cause to be
provided under the Guarantee Agreement or the Shareholder's
Guarantee Agreement, as the case may be.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall inform the Bank prior to
undertaking or executing any new investment, other than an invest-
ment included in the Project or the replacement of an existing
asset, and shall not, in any fiscal year and until the completion
of the Project, undertake or execute for its own account or for
the account of any third party or parties any investments whose
aggregate estimated cost exceeds $5,000,000 equivalent, unless
the Bank and the Borrower otherwise agree. For the purpose of
this Section, "project completion" means the completion of a
period of 3 months during which: (i) the Borrower's aggregate
production and sales under the Project amount to at least 250,000
metric tons of ordinary Portland cement; and (ii) the Borrower
has maintained the ratio specified in Section 5.08 (a) of this
Agreement.
Section 5.08. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take such steps as shall be necessary to main-
tain at all times a ratio of consolidated current assets to con-
solidated current liabilities of not less than 1.3 to 1.
(b) The Borrower shall not pay any dividend or make any
other distribution with respect to its capital shares except out
of its accumulated net earnings and unless immediately following


﻿- 19 -
such payment or distribution the current assets of the Borrower are
at least 1.5 -61mes its current liabilities.
(c) For the purposes of this Section "current assets" mean
cash, securities readily convertible into cash, accounts receiv-
able realizable within one year and inventory, and "current liabili-
ties" mean liabilities due and payable, and all other liabilities
which will be due and payable, or could be called for payment,
within one year, including the portion of long-term debt falling
due within one year.
Section 5.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall not repay in advance of maturity any
part of its indebtedness other than under its outside debt.
(b) If the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity any
part of its outside debt other than the Loan, the Borrower shall
simultaneously prepay in the same proportion an amount of the Loan
then outstanding, and all the provisions of the General Conditions
relating to repayment in advance of maturity shall be applicable
to any repayment by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to this
Section.
Section 5.10. In the event of liquidation, termination or
dissolution or winding up of the Borrower, the principal and other
amounts payable on the outside debt of the Borrower shall first
be paid before any payment is made on account of the funds provided
under Section 2.04 of the Shareholder's Guarantee Agreement or under
Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) ODI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Shareholder's Guarantee Agreement;
(b) The Borrower's Statuts or any provision thereof shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
(c) The Statuts of ODI or any provision thereof shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of ODI to prform
any of its obligations under the Shareholder's Guarante;- Agreement;
(d) A representation made by ODI in or pursuant to the
Shareholder's Guarantee Agreement, or any statement furnished
in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the
Bank in making the Loan, shall have been incorrect in any material
respect; and
(e) Any provision of the Investment Convention, or the
incidence thereof, shall have been modified or affected, as the
case may be, so as to materially and adversely affect the ability


﻿- 21 -
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower, the Guarantor and ODI; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d)
or (e) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 22 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the execution of the Shareholder's Guarantee Agreement on
behalf of ODI has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank, namely, that the Shareholder's Guarantee Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
action on behalf of ODI and is legally binding on ODI in accord-
ance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date July 28, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wuI)
For the Borrower:
CIMENTERIE DE L'ORIENTAL
10, rue Ghandi
Rabat, Morocco
Telex:
31 677


﻿- 24 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF., the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
CIMENTERIE DE L'ORIENTAL
By /s/ Abdelhadi Boutaleb
Authorized Representative


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works              16,000,000          47%
(2) Supply of Mechanical      5,000,000          100% of foreign
Equipment for Cement                         expenditures
Plant
(3) Erection, Commission-     5,700,000          100% of foreign
ing, Spares of and                           expenditures
Training on Mechanical
Equipment for Cement
Plant
(4) Supply and Erection      10,200,000          100% of foreign
of Electrical, Pro-                          expenditures and
cess and Auxiliary                           100% of local
Equipment                                    expenditures with
respect to the
ex-factory cost
of locally manu-
factured goods
(5) Supply and Erection       2,000,000         100% of foreign
of Equipment for                             expenditures
Distribution
Facilities


﻿- 26 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Consultants'                300,000          100% of foreign
Services                                     expenditures
(7) Interest and other        2,800,000          Amounts due
Charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
October 31, 1978
(8) Unallocated               3,000,000
TOTAL     45,000,000


﻿- 27 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than the Guarantor;
and
(b) "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the terri-
tories of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior to
the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be
made on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after April 1, 1976.


﻿- 28 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above. if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, pro-
ceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other ex-
penditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the pro-
cedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the design, construction and commis-
sioning of a cement production plant near Oujda with a production
capacity of 1,200,000 tons of cement per year and of distribution
facilities required for the distribution of this production
throughout Morocco, and includes the following Parts:
Part A
(1) The design, construction and commissioning of the
before-mentioned plant, including the acquisition
and installation of raw material, clinker production,
clinker handling, processing and storage equipment
and facilities; cement production, cement handling,
cement storage and shipping equipment and facilities;
and construction of on-site infrastructure for the
above plant; and
(2) design, construction and commissioning of the
distribution facilities and ancillary infrastructure
required for the distribution of the products of
said plant.
Part B
(1) Training of personnel to operate the above plant;


﻿- 30 -
(2) setting up an accounting, cost control, budgeting,
financial planning system and administrative organization;
and
(3) a distribution study of the Borrower's production.
Part C
Design and construction of off-site infrastructure,
including:
(1) water supply facilities;
(2) connection lines between Morocco's national elec-
tricity network and such plant;
(3) a rail link between Morocco's national railway
network and such plant; and
(4) housing and social facilities for the Borrower's
personnel.
Part D
(1) Detailed studies of distribution and pricing of cement
within the territory of the Guarantor; and


﻿31 -
(2) provision by ONCF of railway wagons required for
the transport of the portion of the Borrower's produc-
tion not marketed within the Oriental Region of Morocco.
Thc Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1980
through November 1, 1990                     2,045,000
On May 1, 1991                                    2,055,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 33 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.80%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          3.65%
More than six years but not
more than ten years
before maturity                          6.10%
More than ten years but not
more than twelve years
before maturity                          7.30%
More than twelve years
before maturity                         8.50%


﻿-34 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   The goods and works shall be procured under contracts to be
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with thr)se set
forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines) including the applicable
provisions of the General Introduction thereto, on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in the Project shall be pre-
qualified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 35 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Morocco may be granted a margin of pre-
ference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Morocco if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Morocco equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Grou2 B: all other bids offering goods manu-
factured in Morocco.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be


﻿- 36 -
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.


﻿- 37 -
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's con-
currence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for itr
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 38 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 39 -
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the Gen-
eral Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) By adding to Section 2.01 the following new paragraphs:
"19. The term Shareholder's Guarantee Agreement means
the agreement between the Bank and ODI providing for certain
obligations regarding the guarantee of the Loan."
"20. The term ODI means Office pour le Dgveloppement
Industriel."
(2) By adding in Sections 4.07 (a), 6.03, 6.06, 6.07, 8.01
(a), 9.01 (a) and (b), 10.01, 10.02, 10.03, 11.01, 11.02,
11.03, 11.04, 12.03 (a), 12.04 and 12.05 after the words
"Guarantor" and "Guarantee Agreement", respectively, the
words "and ODI" and "and the Shareholder's Guarantee
Agreement," and, wbenever the context shall require,
by making in such Sections all such grammatical changes
as shall be consequential upon the aforesaid additions.
(3) By the deletion of Section 10.04 and the substitution
therefor of the following new Section 10.04:


﻿- 40 -
"Section 10.04. Arbitration. (a) Any controversy between
the parties to the Loan Agreement or the parties to the Guar-
antee Agreement or the parties to the Shareholder's Guarantee
Agreement, and any claim by any such party against any
other such party arising under the Loan Agreement or the Guar-
antee Agreement or the Shareholder's Guarantee Agreement
which shall not be settled by agreement of the parties shall
be submitted to arbitrauion by an Arbitral Tribunal as
hereinafter provided.
(b) The parties to such arbitration shall be the Bank
on the one side and the Borrower, the Guarantor and ODI on
the other side.
(c) The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbi-
trators appointed as follows: one arbitrator shall be ap-
pointed by the Bank; a second arbitrator shall be appointed
by the Guarantor, the Borrower and ODI or, if they shall not
agree, by the Guarantor; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter
sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement
of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President
of the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment
by him, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations;
provided that if the Guarantor, the Borrower and ODI shall
not agree on the appointment of a common arbitrator, one
arbitrator shall be appointed by the Guarantor only and a
second one by the Borrower and ODI and provided further that,
if the Borrower and ODI shall not agree on such common arbi-
trator, such common arbitrator shall be appointed by the
Borrower only. In the event that the Guarantor, the Borrower


﻿- 41 -
and ODI shall so appoint two separate arbitrators, the Bank,
on its part, shall appoint two arbitrators, and the four
arbitrators so appointed shall, together with the Umpire
appointed as provided above, henceforth constitute the
Arbitral Tribunal. If any party or group of parties shall
fail to appoint an arbitrator in accordance with the
provisions of this Section, such arbitrator shall be appointed
by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance
with this Section shall resign, die or become unable to act,
a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner
as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original
arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers and
duties of such original arbitrator.
(d) An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under
this Section upon notice by the party instituting such pro-
ceeding to the other party. Such notice shall contain a
statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or
claim to be submitted to arbitration and the nature of the
relief sought and the name of the arbitrator appointed by
the party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days
after such notice, the other party shall notify to the
prty instituting the proceeding the name of the arbitrator
appointed by such other party.
(e) If within sixty days after the notice instituting
the arbitration proceeding the parties shall not have agreed
upon an Umpire, any party may request the appointment of an
Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section..


﻿(f) The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time
and place as shall be fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the
Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when it shall
sit.
(g) The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions
relating to its competence and shall, subject to the provi-
sions of this Section and except as the parties shall other-
wise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the
Arbitral Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h) The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties
a fair hearing and shall render its award in writing. Such
award may be rendered by default. An award signed by a
majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the
award of such Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award
shall be transmitted to each party. Any such award rendered
in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be
final and binding upon the parties to the Loan Agreement
and the Guarantee Agreements. Each party shall abide by
and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral
Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
(i) The parties shall fix the amount of the remuner-
ation of the arbitrators and such other persons as shall
be required for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings.
If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the
Arbitral Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall
fix such amount as shall be reasonable under the circumstances.


﻿- J43 -
The Bank, the Borrower, the Guarantor and ODI shall each defray
its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The cost of
the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne
equally by the Bank on the one side and the Borrower, the
Guarantor and ODI on the other. Any question concerning the
division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure
for payment of such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral
Tribunal.
(J) The provisions for arbitration set forth in this
Section shall be in lieu of any other procedure for the
settlement of controversies between the parties to the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement and the Shareholder's
Guarantee Agreement or any claim by any such party against
any other such party arising thereunder.
(k) If within thirty days after counterparts of the
award shall be delivered to the parties the award shall
not be complied with, any party may enter judgment upon,
or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any
court of competent jurisdiction against any other party,
may enforce such judgment by execution or may pursue
any other appropriate remedy against such other party for
the enforcement of the award and the provisions of the
Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement or the Shareholder's
Guarantee Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this
Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment or enforcement
of the award against any party that is a member of the BLnk
except as such procedure may be available otherwise than by
reason of the provisions of this Section.


﻿- 144 -
(1) Service of any notice or process in connection
with any proceeding under this Section or in connection
with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered pursuant
to this Section may be made in the manner provided in Sec-
tion 11.01. The parties to the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee
Agreement and the Shareholder's Guarantee Agreement waive
any and all other requirements for the service of any such
notice or process."


