Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19987
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ON AN
IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 35 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE
SECOND ADDIS ABABA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2161-ET)
December 29, 1999
Water and Urban Unit
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in th 
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withou
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
As of May 1990
Birr 1.00 = US$ 0.483
US$ 1.00 = Birr 2.07
As of June 30, 1999
Birr 1.00 =US$ 0.128
US$ 1.00= 7.795
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
KEY ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAAR       Addis Ababa Administrative Region
AACG       Addis Ababa City Government
AACBP    Addis Ababa Capacity Building Project
AARA       Addis Ababa Roads Authority
AAWSA   Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
CBB        Construction and Business Bank
CBE        Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
EDPO       Environmental Development Project Office
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
GoE        Government of iEthiopia
HSB        Housing and Savings Bank (subsequently named CBB)
IDA        International Development Association
MWUD    Ministry of Works and Urban Development
PIO        Project Implementation Office
UDSS       Urban Development Support Services
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:    Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader:    Gautam Sengupta



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data ...........................................................          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings ...........................................................  2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry ........    2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs ...........................................................  9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ........................................    13
6. Sustainability ...........................................................        14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance ........................... ................................    15
8. Lessons Learned ...........................................................       16
9. Partner Comments ...........................................................    17
10. Additional Information ...........................................................  17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Annex 9. Key Implementation Indicators
Table .IA. Key Implementation Indicators for Sites and Services: Infrastructure
Development
Table IB. Key Implementation Indicators for Sites and Services: Housing
Development
Table 2. Key Implementation Indicators for Kebele Upgrading Civil Works and
Flood Control Projects
Table 3. Key Implementation Indicators for Street Maintenance Civil Works
Table 4. Key Implementation Indicators for Solid Waste Management Civil
Works
Table 5. Key Implementation Indicators for Akaki Water Supply Component
Annex 10. Studies and Training included in the Project
Annex 11. Status of Legal Covenants
Annex 12. ICR Mission Aide Memoire and its Attachments
Attachment 1. Project Implementation Status as of June 30, 1999
Attachment 2. Schedule of Retention Money to be released Prior to 31 October,
1999 against Bank Guarantee for Defects Liability
Attachment 3. Plan for Future Operations of Project Capital Investments
Annex 13. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Maps
No. 30666
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000712                                   Project Name: Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Team Leader: Gautam Sengupta                          TL Unit: AFTU I
ICR Type: Core ICR                                    Report Date: December 29, 1999
1. Project Data
Name: Second Addis Ababa Urban Development         I/C Number: 21610
Project
Country/Department: Ethiopia                                        Region: Africa Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: UM - Urban Management; WU - Urban Water
Supply
KEY DATES
Original          Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/28/1989                   Effective:  11/12/1990       11/12/1990
Appraisal:  02/15/1990                    MTR:  NA                  NA
Approval:  06/20/1990                   Closing.  06/30/1997        06/30/1999
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  Government/Project Implementation Office of the Addis Ababa City
Government/Addis Ababa Water Supply & Sewerage Authority/
Construction and Business Bank
Other Partners:  None
STAFF               Current                                At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto. E. Madavo                    Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:    Oey Astra Meesook                     Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:     Jeffrey S. Racki                       Jonathan Brown
Team Leader at ICR:  Gautam Sengupta                       Carolyn Gochenour
ICR Primary Author:  Sudeshna RoyChoudhury
1



2. Principal Performance Ratings
(S=Satisfactory, HS=Highly Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)             ICR
Quality at Entry:           Not Applicable
Project at Risk at Any Time:  Not Applicable                Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:
3.1.1. Project objectives outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Report No. 8632-ET were:
(a) improving basic infrastructure and enviromnental conditions in project areas;
(b) supporting a core housing development program primarily for lower-income families;
(c) promoting opportunities for poor women living in -the kebeles to enhance their income;
(d) providing assistance to urban service delivery agencies to carry out their activities more
efficiently; and
(e) promoting the adoption of sound cost recovery policies.
3.1.2. Background. The Project evolved over a period of three years (1987-1990). The project concept
was clear and was initiated in response to the request of the then Minister of Housing and Urban
Development at a time when urban development was not on the Bank's country assistance priority list.
Although the project design was intended to be based on the lessons learned from the First Urban
Development Project (Cr. 1366-ET), in practice it proved to be ambitious and complex vis-a-vis the
actual implementation capacity of the institutions involved. Also, given the political development and the
complex institutional arrangements for implementation, the project design underestimated the risks
associated with achieving the development objectives.
3.1 .3. To give a historic context of the assessment of project objectives, it would be useful to note the
thinking in the mid 1980s vis-a-vis sector issues both within the Bank and the Government. Around 1986
urban development was not a priority in the Bank assistance strategy to Ethiopia-the emphasis was more
on the productive sectors. The only ongoing urban project in the country portfolio was the First Urban
Development Project (Cr. 1366-ET). The Bank's Country Assistance Memorandum (CAM) did not
include any support for a second urban project. The draft CPP, however, had a second project in the
reserve program. An Urban Infrastructure Review study that was due to be undertaken around this time
was excluded from the CAM program because of resource constraints but was retained in the ESW
program proposed in the draft CPP.
2



3.1.4. It was against this background that the then Minister of Urban Development and Housing visited
Washington D.C. in end July 1986 to discuss the Government's urban policies and lending with the Bank.
A request for IDA support towards promoting urban development in towns outside Addis Ababa, and for
evolving and implementing an overall urban policy was made at this time. The Minister outlined the
Government's thinking on a decentralization strategy. It was envisaged that a project to support the
Government's decentralization objectives would include social and community services and market
facilities which would be designed to serve a hierarchy of towns and villages. These towns would need to
be provided with a certain amount of basic infrastructure to foster productive enterprises outside of Addis
Ababa and generally to improve the links between the rural and urban economies. This was also
important given the need to slow down the rapid growth of Addis Ababa and to expand employment
opportunities in the rural areas. Bank staff at that time concurred with the Minister's approach.
Subsequently, a mission was fielded in February 1987 to discuss the objectives of a follow-on project in
the urban sector at which time agreement was reached between the Government and IDA that the follow-
on project would: (a) build on the experience of the First Urban Development Project; and (b) expand its
focus to support a strategy of regional development that was then being pursued by the Government.
3.1.5. In keeping with the above understandings, a follow-on project, the Integrated Rural/Urban
Development Project, began to be conceptualized. A component of this proposed project for Addis
Ababa would have included the following sub-components: sites and services, kebele upgrading, national
housing sector study, road maintenance, and solid waste management. The other component of the
proposed Integrated Rural/Urban Development Project included nine other towns which involved sub-
components such as housing, town-wide infrastructure improvements, income enhancement and
employment generation component, water supply, and a sanitation pilot demonstration project.
3.1.6. It was envisaged that the total cost of the Integrated Rural/Urban Development Project would be
about US$100 million of which IDA would finance US$35 million with co-financing to be provided by
other bilaterals for the remainder of the US$65 million. However, all the bilaterals that were approached
(ODA, FINNIDA, SIDA, EIB, the Italians) declined. Shortly thereafter it was decided in the Bank that in
the interest of effective policy discussions and more efficient project implementation, the program would
be presented to Bank management and other possible donors as two separate operations: one would be an
Urban Poverty Alleviation Project whose objective would be to begin to tackle the absolute poverty
conditions among the poor in Addis Ababa; the second would be the Market Towns Development Project
aimed at improving essential services and infrastructure tied to the rural productive areas. This proposal
of the Bank was communicated to the Government in June 1989. Though the Government concurred with
the Bank's proposal, it pointed out that the two projects would need to be looked at as one given that the
Government perceives them as one integrated project and also due to the potential over-stretching of the
capacity of the implementing ministry, i.e., the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing (MUDH) if
it had to provide two separate project management offices to manage the implementation of the two
projects. Around mid 1989, it was decided that the IDA allocation for both these projects would be
significantly increased from US$35 million to US$75 million ($35 million for the Urban Poverty
Alleviation Project in Addis Ababa and US$40 million for the Market Towns Development Project).
Breaking the original integrated project into two therefore served two key purposes:
(i) it precluded presenting to IDA management one large project for a country that most donors were
looking at in askance at that time; and (ii) it managed to provide the full funding (US$75 million) from
IDA thus negating the other bilaterals' reluctance to provide co-financing to the country just then.
3.1.7. The complexity of the issues involved regarding the genesis of the eventual Second Addis Ababa
Urban Development Project (SAAP) which came out of the Urban Poverty Alleviation Project in Addis
Ababa can be better appreciated given the above background. As discussed above, the genesis of the
project itself was characterized by political uncertainty, policy and institutional transition in the country, a
repeat of the objectives of the First Urban Development Project in order to complete the unfinished
business agenda, ambitious objectives in the context of complex institutional arrangements, weak



capacity, lack of implementation experience, and inefficient and inappropriate systems and procedures
primarily with regard to procurement and financial managernent. This was the reality of the project in
terms of its implementation context.
3.2 Revised Objective.:
3.2.1. The project was restructured in June 1997. Basically, except dropping objectives which had become
unattainable due to the changed policy of increasing the interest rates to commercial rates, the other
objectives substantially remained the same. Consequently, the restructuring was authorized at management
level.
3.2.2. The project became effective in November 1990 and implementation progress was generally slow for
the first two years of implementation. Subsequently, implementation of the project virtually came to a
standstill, largely as a result of the overall transition in the country. Rapid changes in institutional
responsibilities and arrangements, frequent changes in key project staff and uncertain and evolving economic
policies of a government in transition contributed to a markedly changed environment for project
inmplementation. This transition was characterized by major administrative and fiscal decentralization. While
the new government accepted and supported the fundamental objectives of this project, it decided to conduct
a review of the emphasis and implementation arrangements of the project, in light of the changes in the
economic, political and administrative environment. The governnent established two governing principles
for restructuring the project: (i) to redirect project activities in a way to maximize the benefits to the poor by
improving access to basic services; ancl (ii) to strengthen management, financial and technical capacity of
service delivery/implementing agencies to improve efficiency and sustainability of investments. An option
that was available at the time of restructuring was to cancel the project and begin afresh with a new initiative
which would reflect not only the policies and priorities of the new government but would also be "tailored" to
realities of capacity constraints of the implementing agencies. However, preparing a new project would have
meant significant loss of time in the face of the urgency the new government attached to directing
investments for the benefit of the poor. Furthermore, given the state of play in terms of broader policy dialog
and the evolving relationship between the new Government and the Bank, canceling the project was not
coinsidered as a practical option. As a result, the restructuring exercise attempted to primarily simplify some
of the design and implementation aspects of the project. However, in retrospect the complex institutional and
implementation arrangement issues weire not fully resolved; resulting in difficult implementation experience
following the restructuring exercise.
3.2.3. The original project objectives, which were consistent with the objectives and priorities of the new
government, remained substantively unchanged during the restructuring of the project. However, the project
was conceived and designed under a set of policies and circumstances which were no longer fully applicable.
The economic policies of the new government needed to be reflected in the restructured project. Also,
considerable depreciation of the Ethiopian Birr (about 67% depreciation during implementation as compared
to the original appraisal estimate) had affected the amount of the proceeds remaining under the credit.
Therefore, though project objectives were not substantively changed, some priorities within the project
components were re-ordered, some project components were eliminated, and some new elements added.
3.2.4. The primary objectives of the restructuring were: (i) to realign the project in a manner consistent
with the new Government's policies and priorities; and (ii) to direct financial and technical resources to
those activities which would have the most development impact.
3.2.5. In this context, the original project objectives (a), (b) and (d) enumerated in section 3.1.1. above
were maintained throughout the life of the project but changes were made regarding (c) and (e) during
projject restructuring in July 1996 to reflect the then current realities. With regard to (c) which involved
the provision of loans to poorer women for income generating activities, it was found that numerous
administrative problems, and lack of interest by potential beneficiaries who were required to reimburse
4



the loans at commercial lending rates, resulted in unsuccessful implementation of the sub-component. It
was therefore decided that existing loan agreements at the time of project restructuring would be closed
and no new ones would be made. The remaining sub-component funds would be reallocated amongst the
other project components, thus this project objective was no longer relevant in the restructured project.
With regard to objective (e) which was, promoting the adoption of sound cost recovery policies, given
that the Government's new priority was to strengthen management, financial and technical capacity of
service delivery/implementing agencies to improve efficiency and sustainability of investments, the focus
was changed towards trying to improve financial management and operating practices.
3.2.6. Therefore, after project restructuring the objectives were:
(a) Improving basic infrastructure and environmental conditions in project areas;
(b) supporting a core housing development program primarily for lower-income families;
(c) providing assistance to urban service delivery agencies to carry out their activities more
efficiently; and
(d) improving financial management and operating practices.
3.2.7. The revisions to the project objectives were, therefore, not substantive in that the original project
objective (c) was subsumed under the added emphasis given to kebele upgrading as a whole in the
restructured project; the same applies for the original objective (e) with regard to putting the focus more
on improvement of financial management and operating practices under the restructured project. Based
upon agreement with the Bank's Africa Region management, the restructured project was approved by the
Regional management and not submitted to the Board.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1. Original project components included:
(i) Sites and services, including development of about 2,000 serviced plots with 1,900 core housing
units built by self-help with supporting infrastructure and community facilities at two locations in
Addis Ababa municipality and about 350 serviced plots and self-help core housing units with
supporting infrastructure in Akaki;
(ii) Kebele upgrading, including infrastructure improvements and loans for improvementlupgrading of
houses in seven centrally located kebeles in Addis Ababa in the first phase; similar investments for
kebeles in Addis Ababa to be identified in a second phase; and a loan fund to finance revenue-
generating and other development projects in kebeles citywide in Addis Ababa;
(iii) Street maintenance, including vehicles, equipment, spare parts, plant and civil works in Addis
Ababa;
(iv) Solid waste management, including vehicles, spare parts, collection containers, landfill equipment
and civil works in Addis Ababa;
(v) Municipal infrastructure, including improvements to roads and drains, essential vehicles and
equipment, and a power line extension to service the new sites and service areas in Akaki;
(vi) Water supply improvement including major expansion works in Akaki; and
(vii) Institutional support programs, including consultancy services, studies, technical assistance,
training, vehicles and equipment to strengthen management and maintenance systems of project
agencies, and assistance for project management and implementation.
3.3.2. The total project cost, including contingencies, was estimated at US$46.7 million equivalent at
appraisal. The IDA Credit of US$35 million would finance about 75% of the total project cost, over a
seven year period. At completion, final costs were about US$39.2 million of which IDA contributed
US$31.4 million (about 80% of total project costs).
5



3.3.3. The design of the project reflects that components were reasonably related to project objectives.
However, some of the implementing agencies were new and others did not have the capacity and the
policy environment was not favorable. Given the multiplicity of objectives and components, the multiple
agencies involved in executing the project (three), the untested capacity of the newly created project
irmplementing agency, the Project Implementation Office (PIO) in the Addis Ababa Administrative
Region (AAAR), and the uncertainties with respect to the administrative and financial management
capacities of the other agencies such as the Housing and Savings Bank (HSB) and the Addis Ababa Water
and Sewerage Authority (AAWSA), implementation was bound to be complex. In terms of institutional
capacity, the PIO (in the role of providing overall coordination of project activities) was an untested, new
organization. With regard to the HSB (which would be responsible for the housing component), around
September 1989 it was noted that HSB was almost entirely dependant on subsidized funding, which the
Government provided by requiring the pension and insurance sectors to main low cost deposits with HSB,
and which IDA would supplement. This directed and subsidized funding provided a disiixcentive to HSB
to mobilize its own resources and adversely affected development of pension and insurance funds as a
major potential source of long-termn money. The taxation policy of the Government also appeared to
constrain HSB's ability to build its equity base. Finally, HSB had portfolio and financial problems, and
the projections suggested that continued infusions of Government capital will be required to cover its
deficits. The Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority (AAWSA) to be responsible for implementing
the Akaki water supply component was also not a financially viable entity.
3.3.4. The design of the project has taken into account the lessons learned in the First Urban
Development Project. The sites and services and kebele upgrading components did take into account
some of the lessons learned from the previous IDA-financed Urban Development Project implemented
from 1983-91 in the country. This pertained to the success of community participation in project
planning, design and management with respect to self-help housing cooperatives. However, Government
commitment to revise its policy on nationalized housing stock and encourage private ownership did not
mnaterialize by the end of the first project and this follow-on project was supposed to make this issue a
conidition of disbursement. For various reasons, however, (see paras. 4.2.1. and 4.2.2. for details), the
effective implementation of this component was hindered. Also, the successful approach of the first
Urban Development Project with regard to scheduling implementation in the sites and services
component in such a way so as to delay completion of road construction until most of the house
construction was completed in order to negate the adverse effects on the roads due to the movement of
heavy construction vehicles and equipment was not followed. This resulted in associated damages to the
on-site roads and entailed repairs.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1. In restructuring, three factors were considered: (a) poor implementation experience as the result of
laclc of institutional capacity, an issue which needed to be urgently addressed; (b) project investments needed
to "'spread" in a way to maximize the benefits to the poor; and (c) early closure of the project needed to be
pursued while using the remaining life (and funds) under the project to better prepare the service delivery
institutions for improved planning and implementation of the next generation of investments. Another factor
which helped in realigning specific component budgets under the restructured project relates to gains due to
exchange rate changes. The original prcject costs were estimated at a time when the Birr was valued at Birr 2
= US$1. With the changes in the exchange rate regime in the country, at the time of restructuring, the Birr
was; valued at about Birr 6 = US$ 1. Given the large local content of the investments, the depreciation of the
Bin resulted in significant local cost savings (in terms of the US$ available under the credit). For instance,
the amount of IDA credit at project restructuring translated into Birr 230 million as compared to ETB 73
million at appraisal. Under the restructuring exercise, a large portion of these gains due to exchange rate
changes were directed at increasing the budgets for specific conmponents (valued in terms of local currency) to
achieve the underlying objectives. Thus., under the restructured project, the scope of some components was
increased, some project components were eliminated, and some new elements added in line with the
6



governing principles, stated earlier, while conforming to the original project objectives. In general, for the
restructured project, the gain in value of the IDA credit in terms of local currency has been directed towards
two main objectives: (a) to increase the scope of certain components to"scale up" the coverage of improved
basic infrastructure to benefit the population at large; and (b) to invest in building capacity of the
institutions/agencies.
3.4.2. During project restructuring, the IDA credit amount was kept unchanged at SDR 27.1 million.
Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was revised to reflect the revised application of the
IDA credit by component and component specific financing percentages. Financing percentages were
realigned to ensure full financing of each component by a combination of Government and IDA funds
(including amounts already disbursed). The following table summarizes the project budgets by component at
appraisal, restructuring and closure.
Table 1: Summary of Component Budgets
(in US$ millions)
Component              Appraisal         Restructured     Actual/ Latest
Estimate         Estimate          Estimate
Land                          .02              .028             .028
Sites and Services           3.73              2.18             1.65
Housing Development          12.36             7.14             7.05
Kebele Upgrading             3.88              5.30             1.56
Municipal Infrastructure     17.00            17.68            21.11
Akaki Water Supply           6.44              5.41             4.49
Institutional Support        3.25              8.11             3.05
Total:      46.68             46.10            39.19
3.4.3. The total project cost essentially remained unchanged. The main quantitative shifts in the project
budget were as follows: (a) an increase of about US$3.2 million for additional investments in kebele
infrastructure investments (about 7% of total project cost); and (b) an increase of about US$ 4.8 million for
institutional capacity building of Addis Ababa City Government (about 10% of the total project cost). These
increases were covered through local cost savings under the Addis Ababa Sites and Services component
(US$3.3 million); by eliminating the Akaki Sites and Services component (US$2.2) million, which was
deemed less priority; and eliminating home improvement loans in the kebeles (US$2.1 million).
3.4.4. The main departure from the original project was to focus the civil works activities more towards
kebele upgrading, given that almost 85 percent of the population in Addis Ababa lives in kebeles requiring
infrastructure and enviromnental sanitation imnprovement, and to put more emphasis on capacity building in
the Addis Ababa City Government. Consistent with the govermnent's new approach towards shelter
development i.e., getting the Government out of the business of direct construction of housing and letting the
private sector take the lead, the home improvement loan component was dropped and the undisbursed funds
were redirected towards expanding the scope for improving basic services such as sanitation, drainage,
community water supply and road maintenance.
3.4.5. Under the restructured project, the kebele upgrading component was scaled up. Originally, seven
kebeles were to be upgraded in Phase I, with a further ten kebeles under Phase II. The revised proposal
included the improvement of 16 additional kebeles, to bring it up to a total of 33. The Project
Implementation Office would carry out the necessary engineering studies including design and monitoring of
the projects. Civil works construction, which was to have been carried out by private contractors, would be
carried out using resources available within AACG, including the Road Construction Department.
Additionally, beneficiaries within each kebele would be brought into the project, through the provision of
either a financial or a labor contribution by the kebele residents.
7



3.4.6. In the absence of existing legislation covering land reform, and in particular the privatization of the
housing owned by the kebeles, it was not possible to disburse funds for the home improvement loans
component in the kebeles. Consequently, the undisbursed funds were transferred to provide increased
infrastructure investments in the kebeles. In addition, the Kebele Development Fund component, which
originally included funding for community facilities and other revenue generating projects as well as for the
provision of loans to poorer women for income generating projects, was reallocated for more basic
infrastructure investments in the kebeles. Numerous administrative problems, lack of interest by potential
beneficiaries (who are required to reimburse the loans at commercial lending rates), and duplication of some
olFthese activities by NGOs resulted in the lack of success of this project component. Consequently, existing
loans agreements were closed out, and it was decided that no new loans would be made.
3.4.7. The restructuring process took over two years to be completed, to ensure full ownership of both the
Central and the Addis Ababa City Government. Given that the restructuring primarily involved re-
ordering of priorities within project components, elimination of some project components, addition of
some new elements, and the extension of the credit closing date by two years from June 30, 1997 to June
30, 1999 to allow for adequate time to complete project activities-not major substantive changes in
themselves-it was approved by the Regional management in April 1997 without requiring approval by
the Board.
Rating                Component                        Sector             Cost (US$ M)
S       Sites & services inc]luding supporting        UH                    8.98
infrastructure (including land
compensation)
U       Kebele upgrading including                    UM                    1.56
infrastructure
S       Infrastructure improvement                    UM                   21.11
(drains/street maintenance &
improvement, improvements in traffic
management & road safety, electricity,
solid waste management, vehicles and
equipment)
S       Solid waste managernent                       UM
S       Improvement of Akaki water supply             WU                    4.49
U       Institutional strengthening of project        UM                    3.05
agencies
Cost included under the infrastructure improvement component.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
(i) Consistency of project objectives with the CAS and Government priorities: (see para. 3.1.2. for
details).
(ii) The Bank's safeguard policies, applicable to the project such as those on Environmental Assessment
and Involuntary Resettlement were met. With regard to the environment, the project was stated to have a
beneficial impact in terms of improved environmental and health conditions by addressing critical
sanitation deficiencies in the kebele upgrading component, drainage improvements, and improved and
expanded refuse collection. On resettlement, a detailed resettlement plan, for the relocation of 19 affected
families, was submitted during project niegotiations.
(iii) Quality of the design: (see paras. 3.1.3, 3.1.4., 3.1.5. and 3.3.6. for details).
8



(iv) Reasonableness of assumptions about any relevant external factors: The key project output was
housing units of which there was a huge and widely acknowledged and recognized shortage. In addition,
investments in infrastructure upgrading in the kebeles was also greatly needed given the demonstrably
poor living conditions that obtained in the majority of them. Further investments in the road and drainage
network as also water supply in Akaki were necessary to alleviate service deficiencies. Project risks,
especially with regard to implementation, however, were underestimated given the complex institutional
arrangements for implementing the project. An extraneous factor, i.e. the civil unrest and the resulting
overall transition in the country, put the project at considerable risk when implementation virtually came to
a standstill during early, yet critical, years of the project. Rapid changes in institutional responsibilities and
arrangements, frequent changes in key project staff and uncertain and evolving economic policies of a
government in transition contributed to poor project implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1. Overall the outcome of the project is assessed as unsatisfactory. The project failed to achieve its
major objectives and is unlikely to give substantial development results. Expected post-construction
economic or financial rates of return are low. Where physical outputs have been significant as in the
housing construction of 2,244 houses compared to 2,250 houses at appraisal or (99.73%), rising
construction and financing costs have put the houses constructed outside the income bracket of the
originally targeted population. Delayed implementation of sites and services such as water supply,
hindered rapid occupancy of completed units and usage of community facilities. With respect to another
major component, Akaki water supply improvement, management and administrative arrangements
between kebeles and AAWSA has held up the use of public fountains.
4.1.2. This has been both a difficult project to implement by the Government and to supervise by the
Bank. In retrospect, it is not self evident that the lessons learned from the First Urban Development
Project were fully incorporated and built into the design and pragmatic implementation strategy for the
project. While the broad objectives of the project remain critical to achieving sustainable development
impact, what proved to be difficult was to operationalize these objectives, particularly considering the
limited implementation capacity and experience of the PIO and AACG, the evolving institutional
relationship between AACG and the Central Government, and the intended institutional and financial
reforms, through the manifold project components. The weak implementation capacity of the project
entities and the transitions in the country since the beginning of the project also hampered efficient and
effective deci3ion-making at critical junctures. Given this reality of the project in terms of its
implementation context, achievement of physical outputs was consciously emphasized by both the
Government and the Bank at the time of project restructuring. However, this required intense Bank
involvement, so much so that there was a risk of the Bank usurping implementation responsibility of the
project from the Government in order for the credit proceeds to be effectively utilized within the time
remaining. The more fundamental objectives of institutional and financial reform critical for sustainability
were not achieved. Although funding was retained for institutional and financial reforms in the
restructured project, in the absence of attention from the Addis Ababa City Government, this objective
remains unfulfilled.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Sites and Services: Physical accomplishment was substantial. Infrastructure provided under this
component includes on-site and off-site gravel roads (17.3 km), asphalt roads (3.9 km), communal
facilities such schools, health facilities, etc. (10), storm water drainage (9.6 km), and electricity supply.
Offsite infrastructure provided under the project has helped the development of housing and transport
facilities adjacent to all the three housing sites. However, absence of timely provision of supporting
9



infrastructure, particularly permanent water supply has hindered rapid occupancy of completed units and
usage of community facilities. Also, delays and problems encountered with the provision of temporary
water supply to enable construction activities in the Jimma Road housing site has been one of the major
causes for delays in housing construction and related cost increases.
4.2.2. Housing Development: A total of 2,244 houses have been built under the project in the three sites
of Ambo Road (494), Jimma Road (1,400) and Akaki (350). A key change during project implementation
was with regard to the original beneficiary target group which changed due exchange rate devaluation,
domestic inflation, and increase in interest rate on mortgages in 1993. The housing component under the
project was initially designed to provide affordable housing to low income families earning salaries less
than Birr 400 per monthlUS$193 at the then exchange rate. However, the Government introduced a new
interest rate regulation that raised lending interest rate for the housing sector from 4.5% to 12%. This
increase adversely affected the initially targeted beneficiaries and made the houses unaffordable for them.
Construction costs in 1993 were estimated by the PIO to have increased by more than 100% from the
SAR estimates. New interest rates on mortgage loans were pegged at 11.5% for medium-term and 12%
for long-term housing mortgage loans. In order to enhance the affordability of the house constructors and
also ensure the concept of full cost recovery principle, the HSB in consultation with AACG in mid 1993
proposed a weighted average interest rate of 6.4% to be applied on the amount of proceeds to be lent to
the house constructors. This rate was obtained by blending the World Bank's 75% share at 4.5% annual
rate with HSB's portion of 25% at 12% annual interest rate. The Bank noted that it had no objection to the
underlying objectives which are implied in the proposal to blend down the effective interest rate and thus
provide some degree of subsidy to the beneficiaries in order to keep the pricing affordable to the target
groups. However, the implementation mechanism of this principle would need to be consistent with the
Government's overall macro-economic policies including a program of macro-economic reforms and
structural adjustments as articulated in its 1993/94-1995/96 Policy Framework Paper and agreed with the
IM F and the World Bank. In this context, the Bank pointed out that it was the Government's policy that
there be no differentials in interest rates either between sectors (e.g. industry vs. housing) or between
buyers (e.g. public vs. private). Any interest subsidy, decided as a matter of policy by the Government,
would be made explicit and should be directed at an identified beneficiary group. The Bank therefore,
proposed that in order to be consistent with this approach, the HSB should charge the full market interest
rate (i.e. about 12% per year) on its housing construction loan. However, the interest relief (subsidy)
c.ould then be provided to the ultimate beneficiaries in the form of a cash rebate, funded with the national
Government's budgetary contribution. This process would make the process of subsidy and its cost to the
economy transparent. It is possible to construct such an arrangement where the subsidy could be directly
and. explicitly borne by the "safety net" contemplated under the PFP.
A new affordable marketing plan reflecting increased cost of construction and materials and new interest
rates for mortgage loans was submitted to IDA. This plan was based on a thorough analysis of
affordability through actual registration of cooperative applicants. The survey revealed that: (i) there was
still a strong demand for self-help housing in Addis; (ii) some 70% of the applicants could only afford
core plus zero units (income range Birr 650-900 p.m.); and (iii) the majority of the rest could afford core
plus one units. Based on this analysis, a new composition of housing types was proposed by the PIO and
the Bank in principle agreed. However, the Bank was informed in September 1994 that the HSB had
again increased its lending interest rate for the housing sector for second time from the previously agreed
12%X) to 15% with effect from September 1, 1994. It was noted that this would have a negative implication
on the housing component and that the Bank should intervene with the Government to keep the interest
rate for project purposes at 12%.
Based upon the above, the target population changed with a shift to higher income groups who
subsequently changed the design of the housing types; there were upward revisions in terms of the
10



structure and quality of the houses constructed. Overall, the project did assist in increasing the available
housing stock in the city thereby helping to alleviate the most pressing problem of housing shortage.
4.2.3. Kebele Upgrading: The number of kebeles upgraded exceeded the appraisal target by two. This
component suffered from a delayed start as sale of government-owned housing stock was a condition of
disbursement of this component. IDA agreed to waive this requirement around 1993 as the sale of
housing stock was subsequently made a SAC condition. After being scaled up during the restructuring,
agreement was reached in October 1997 on scaling down the scope of the kebele upgrading program
because of the demonstrated lack of implementation capacity in the executing agency, the Environmental
Development Project Office (EDPO). Eventually, only 9 kebeles (three by private contractors and six by
EDPO) were upgraded as part of this project. Upgrading works in the kebeles included construction of
asphalt roads (1.67 km), gravel roads (1.12 km), paved stone roads (7.13 kin), paved stone ditches (8.16
km), concrete pipe drainage (5.2 km), hard stands for solid waste containers (I 9), communal latrines (40),
and public water standpoints (27). One of the benefits of the project is that community participation and
involvement in upgrading activities has increased the awareness within AACG for the need to do community
consultation in order to ensure ownership and sustainability of the investments. To facilitate implementation,
an Operational Manual was developed and introduced at restructuring, based on experiences with prior
approaches towards implementing upgrading programs. This Operational Manual has proven to be a
valuable tool in designing and implementing subsequent programs. Another result is that in the future,
woredas will be involved in actual execution of the works in Addis Ababa whereas EDPO will do the design
and supervision. Resettlement aspects of the component were done effectively and in a manner consistent
with the Bank's safeguard policies. The following table summarizes the physical and financial aspects of
resettlement under this component:
Total No. of Total No. of |  Total Size of Affected Population  Compensation Paid for  Total   Remarks
Wereda Kebele  Households  Inhabitants Fully Affected Partially Affected Total Fully Affected Partially Affected   (Birr)
In the Kebele In the Kebele                                (Birr)        (Birr)
8    23         563        3139                        25    25                     145,704.64  145,704.64
8    24         797        4123                        3      3                     86,039.28  86,039.28
8    25         731        3444                        53    53                     46,410.69  46,410.69
7     30      62174        6391                        24    24                     77,254.86  77,254.86
7    3 1        1713       9286           3            84    8       18,107.35     256,981.77 275,089.12
7    32        1788        9802                        22    22                     61,355.42  61,355.42
7    33        1483        8235                        4      45                   143,780.32  143,780.32
7   33                                                  9      9                     7,054.90   7,054.90 (Agency
for the
Adminis-
tration of
Rented
Houses
Zone Five
________   ________   __________   ________   ___________              O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0ffieceF)i
1388       7557                          1     1                      1,307.07   1,307.07   =
Total                          3            302   305    18,107.3        825,888.9.
843,9963
4.2.4. Municipal Infrastructure With respect to street maintenance, eight street maintenance projects were
completed under phase one and another six projects under the second phase (total of about 25 km length
compared to the appraisal target of 31.7 km), implemented by contractors. BDth equipment and materials
provided under the project have been utilized fully by the Addis Ababa Roads Authority (AARA). As a
result the main roads in the city are now being better maintained as opposed to three years ago. The
inputs through the project essentially helped AARA to implement a critical mass of its work program
until about a year ago. However, contractor capacity to do asphalt concrete is a problem and most roads
11



htave been done using the penetration method. As a result, these have deteriorated quickly because of the
h:igh traffic volume on the roads.
In terms of solid waste management., the following was done: one building and fence work, on-site
asphalt road (1.69 km), one truck park, procurement of solidl waste containers (1362). The equipment and
technical assistance inputs have helped considerably in improving the functioning of the solid waste
management division within the Health Bureau of the AACG. In addition, because of the project inputs it has
been recognized that the institutional arrangements for solid waste management has to be reorganized, a
process which has already started. However, the Repi landfill site is not being managed as a sanitary landfill
but as a tipping site. The life of this tipping site is estimated to be another five years. Therefore,
consideration needs to be given to diverting the weigh-bridge to the proposed new sanitary landfill site
that is being considered. The workshop and the control office for the weigh-bridge are there at the site
but not in use. There are plans to use the workshop in the near-future to carry out routine maintenance of
equipment. The Health Bureau recognizes the limitations at the tipping site and its inability to carry out
landfill operations in an environmentally friendly manner. For instance there are no layers of cover
material in between layers of refuse, there is no leachate control and treatment though there is awareness
and concern. The Health Bureau has begun studying the site from the point of view of taking some
stopgap measures for leachate control till the new landfill site is commissioned. The equipment received
and the investments made on the site have brought some dividends in that the operations are much better
than before. However, it is important that the City Government focuses its attention on the whole issue of
solid waste management and also develops a new sanitary landfill urgently. Also, there are
recommendations made by consultants that need to be addressed without delay. In addition, other key
essential municipal equipment and vehicles such as fire fighting equipment, road maintenance equipment,
etc. have also been procured under the project.
4.2.5. Akaki Water Supply Improvement TIhe physical targets were substantially achieved. Works completed
under this component include pipe laying (48.74 km), building of three reservoirs (3, 1 00 nd capacity in total),
auKiliary buildings, three boreholes, electro-mechanical works, procurement of pipes and accessories (50.03
km length). The project's intervention to augment water supply in Akaki has resulted in the identification
of the full potential of the aquifer. The investments under the project triggered actions by AAWSA to better
utilize the full supply potential of the Akaki aquifer to benefit a large section of Addis Ababa. AAWSA noted
that with respect to upgrading of water supply in Akaki, beneficiary assessments that were conducted indicate
that water consumption by the beneficiaries has increased from 20 to 80 liters per family per day due to
investments made under the project. Average time spent by beneficiaries in collecting water has substantially
reduced due to increased number of water points. The public water fountains provided under the project have
helped considerably in providing easier access to safe water. However, all of the fountains have not been
given water connections. This is because management and administration arrangements between the
kebeles and AAWSA have not yet been sorted out. AAWSA indicated that this issue is being addressed.
In addition, leak detection equipment and training contributed towards increasing operating efficiency of
AAWSA's operations as a whole.
4.2.6. Institutional Development Institutional development under the project included various key technical
assistance in the form of consultancies to the various project agencies such as AAWSA, PIO, AARA and the
AACG Health Bureau to supplement their implementation capacity and provide on-the-job training as well as
several studies such as the Water Tariff Study for AAWSA, solid waste management strategies and training
activities. However, it had been assumed around 1996, that given the long-term nature of key capacity
building tasks and that the credit was due to close in mid 1999, these institutional strengthening activities
would be subsumed under the proposed Addis Ababa Capacity Building Project (AACBP). Given that this
intervention did not materialize due to lack of interest from both the AACG management and the Central
Government, as a result, the activities included under this component primarily concentrated on short-term
capacity building tasks. Most critically, the project failed to address the fundamental issues of improving
budg,eting, accounting and financial management of AACG. This was largely due to the fact that the project
12



was perceived and treated as an enclave initiative and the reform agenda built into the project was not
integrated into the mainstream decision making and operations of AACG.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return: See Annex 3 for details.
4.4 Financial rate of return: NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1. Institutional development impact has been at most modest or negligible. There was some
institutional development in terms of capacity enhancements in agencies such as AAWSA, the AACG's
Health Bureau and the Addis Ababa Roads Authority (AARA) due to project inputs. With respect to
AAWSA, leak detection equipment and training contributed towards increasing operating efficiency of
AAWSA's operations as a whole. In addition, the water tariff study financed under the project contributed
towards recognition of the importance of sound financial management practices and its implementation is
now being facilitated under the ongoing IDA-fnanced Water Supply Development and Rehabilitation
Project. The equipment and technical assistance inputs to the AACG Health Bureau in terms of solid waste
management have helped considerably in improving the functioning of the solid waste management division
within the Health Bureau of the city govermment. Because of the project inputs it has been recognized that the
institutional arrangements for solid waste management has to be reorganized, a process which has already
started. With respect to AARA, the provision of traffic management equipment helped to enhance road
safety standards in the city. Technical assistance to AARA on road construction and maintenance also proved
to be useful.
4.5.2. The project, however, was unable to significantly influence fundamental policy reforms, program
formulation, prioritization of investments and related financial management and implementation issues
within AACG as an institution. In addition, the nucleus of skilled professionals built at the PIO was lost
because of changed priorities in the AACG. This was especially critical given that at one time it was
mooted that the PIO should be transformed into the equivalent of an Economic Development Council
responsible for program management functions including the formulation and coordination of all urban
development policies and initiatives in AACG given the experience it had garnered in implementing and
coordinating a multi-sectoral and multi-agency implemented SAAP.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
After effectiveness, political instability caused a dramatic slowdown in implementation. No Bank
supervision missions were undertaken between October 1990 to October 1991. With restoration of
political stability in late 1991 implementation resumed, but changes in senior personnel in the
implementing agencies resulted in less rapid development than would have otherwise occurred.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The election of a new administration in Addis Ababa in 1993 created further delays in the implementation
of the project as all personnel and procedures were reviewed. Key personnel were replaced. Many of
PIO's records were impounded, staff replaced, and verbal instructions were given to cancel the
implementation of procurement decisions taken earlier. Delays in implementation and decision-making
also resulted because the relationship of some key sector agencies (i.e. AAWSA) with AACG remained
unclear till about 1994. There were serious delays in tariff increases to achieve cost recovery.
13



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Around 1997 with another change in the management leadership in the AACG, key executive decisions
and management actions pertinent to the project were not taken. These decisions and actions were
essential not only to ensure the timely completion of ongoing activities but to also finish project activities
in the most efficient and effective manner. Repeated requests from IDA to AACG on the weak
implementation capacity of the EDPO (implementing agency for the kebele upgrading program),
consequent non-cornpletion of the high poverty focussed kebele upgrading component, the need to
supplement EDPO's implementation capacity or explore alternative mechanisms for delivery of the
program went largely unheeded. This did indeed result in a substantial scaling-down of the kebele
upgrading program which had been one of the centerpieces of project restructuring. In addition, effective
coordination among the various implementing agencies did not happen especially with regard to the
housing loans and cooperatives component. The inability of AAWSA to provide timely and adequate
temporary water supply to enable quick construction of housing and communal facilities in the three sites
and services schemes resulted in hugely delayed housing construction activities driving up costs as also
the PIO's inability to effectively coordinate with the housing cooperatives and AAWSA. Also, the AACG
was unable to retain key PIO staff thus impeding effective implementation and important monitoring and
evaluation activities especially in the last one year of the project.
5. 4 Costs andfinancing:
The original project costs were estimated at a time when the Birr was valued at Birr 2 =US$1. With the
changes in the exchange rate regime in the country, at the time of restructuring, the Birr was valued at about
BilT 6 = US$ 1. Given the large local content of the investments, the depreciation of the Birr resulted in
significant local cost savings (in terms of the US$ available under the credit). On completion following
restructuring, the latest/actual estimates are shown in 3.4.2Table 1.
(i) Sites and Services: The lower actual estimate is mainly attributable to local cost savings under the sites
and services component in Addis Ababa and elimination of the Akaki sites and services component
during restructuring which was deemed less priority. Also, after restructuring there was some over-
estimation of the works.
(ii) Housing Development: Actual estirnate is lower primarily due to the elimination of the home
improvement loans component during restructuring.
(iii)I Kebele Upgrading: The lower actual estimate is due to scaling -down of the kebele upgrading
program due to capacity constraints in EDPO.
(iv) Municipal Infrastructure: Increase in the actual estimate primarily due to increased focus on solid
waste management activities during restructuring to improve basic sanitation as well as the provision of
increased numbers of municipal vehicles and equipment given the need to restock critical essential
municipal equipment.
(v) Akaki Water Supply: Actual estimate is lower due to decreased costs of civil works stemming from
exchange rate savings.
(vi) Institutional Support: Marginal difference.
6. 'Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The investments under the project are unlikely to be sustainable given that no firmn commitment has been
received from the AACG on financing the operations and maintenance of the physical investments
financed under the project. This is further reinforced by the fact that in AACG, in general, there has been
a lack of credible institutional, financial, and operational reforms undertaken. There may be some
institutional benefits for AAWSA, the AACG Health Bureau, and AARA in termns of overall operational
efficiency due to project inputs.
14



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Attachment 3 of Annex 12 (the ICR Mission Aide Memoire) contains a plan for future operations of the
major components financed under the project. This plan was developed and agreed to between the
mission and the PIO and represents what is considered to be essential to ensure sustainability of the
investments. However, a firm commitment from the AACG to undertake the activities proposed under
the plan has not been received. Given that most of the investments under the major project components
are the direct responsibility of various bureaus and departments of the AACG, it would be necessary for
them to receive explicit budgetary allocations as indicated in the plan. Consequently, whether or how
much funds are actually made available for operations and maintenance would depend upon the overall
financial resources of the AACG and their applications. Further, there is a need for cost recovery through
moving towards commercial operation of the water supply schemes.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Refer to paras. 3.1.2, 3.1.3., 3.14. and 3.1.5
7.2 Supervision:
Overall supervision performance is considered to be satisfactory, although the frequency and impact of
the Bank's supervision effort varied during different implementation periods of the project. Bank's
supervision effort became more intense and proactive including and following the restructuring exercise
from 1996. During this period the Bank fielded 10 supervision missions and supervised the project with
due diligence; the country department recognized this project as being one of the best supervised in a
review conducted in 1997-1998. Prior to 1996, effective supervision of the project was adversely effected
by the political transition in the country, subsequent changes in key personnel in the implementing
agencies as well as changes in Bank task team. This lack of continuity of key personnel, both in the
implementing agencies and in the Bank, exacerbated an already difficult implementation environment.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's preparation performance was adequate given the capacity limitations.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Implementation performance has generally been unsatisfactory. The civil unrest in the country in the early
years of the project retarded implementation progress to a point where only about 6% of the credit was
disbursed at the end of two years after credit effectiveness. There were lengthy delays in the procurement
process, coordination among the key implementing agencies was weak. Project restructuring took two and
half years (from January 1994 to July 1996 from the Government's side) due to decision-making
constraints, as well as capacity constraints. Frequent high level management changes in AACG also
delayed the implementation schedule. Also, performance of contractors and suppliers was unsatisfactory
which stemmed in part due to the PIO's limited capacity to effectively supervise their activities.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Despite the efforts put in by the implementing agencies, weak capacity in these agencies contributed to
delays in implementation as well as coordination problems between some of the key actors such as
AAWSA, PIO, CBB and EDPO.
15



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
IJnsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.  The project appears to have substantially achieved its physical targets although it is not likely to
achieve the expected benefit (low ERR) and also unlikely to be sustainable (cost recovery, institutional
capacity). In terms of institutional development, implementation experience of the project has helped
raise the level of awareness amongst those involved in its execution in terms of the complexity of issues
involved in planning, design and implementation of basic infrastructure improvement programs. The
project has also served to build capacity, albeit in a limited sense, in segments of the professional staff in
those bureaus and departments in the AACG which were involved in project activities.
8.2. On Main Streaming: The project, however, has not been able to achieve substantially its
institutional development and broader capacity building objectives. In particular, in this context, it should
be noted that the project objectives and the development imperatives did not get fully incorporated into
the mainstream policies and programs of AACG. In a sense the project worked as an enclave operation
wi.thout having many of the benefits accrue to AACG as a whole. Also, the project was unable to
significantly influence fundamental policy reforms, program formulation, prioritization of investments
and related financial management and implementation issues within AACG as an institution.
8.3. On Delivery Mechanism: Given the experience with the project it is the task team's assessment that
with regarcd to generic city management, while the city (in this case the AACG) should remain responsible
for the provision of basic public services, it is not necessary that it has to "deliver" these services by itself.
Altemative service delivery mechanisms, under different incentive structures, including increased
involvement of the private sector, communities, NGOs, etc. should be explored.
8.4. On Competitive Advantage of the Bank: In this context, it should also be noted that it is not self
evident that the Bank has a comparative advantage in financing and supervising small individual sub-
prcjects. Given the high transaction costs of such an approach, the Bank should concentrate on assisting
the client in building its capacity to ef0ectively and efficiently manage the project implementation
process. Experience indicates that the Bank should be less involved in "managing" the implementation
process and be more of a "financier" and a "catalyst" to support building up the client's management
capacity.
8.5. On Comprehensive Capacity Building: The Bank did endeavor to address the issue of institutional
strengthening and capacity building at the Addis Ababa City Govermment given the need for a broad-
based set of capacity building initiatives to help it become more responsive and more efficient to the
development demands, needs and priorities of all its stakeholders. Around mid 1996, the AACG and the
Bank proposed to formulate an Addis Ababa Capacity Building Project (AACBP) which would help to
identify key issues that needed to be addressed. The first set of actions would be to: (i) articulate a first set
of priority capacity building actions; and (ii) initiate the process of a series of internal meetings and
discussions, involving all stakeholders--R14 officials, other sector agencies, representatives from
bus;iness and community, and NGOs.
8.6.  On PIO: Under SAAP, PIO functioned in a mode which was outside the mainstream operations of
AACG. ThuLs, the policies and programs under the project, managed through the PIO, did not get truly
integrated in the overall decision making process in AACG. It had been agreed with AACG that the role
of the PIO, which under the project had been to implement and coordinate IDA-financed investments in
the urban sector in AACG, would be revisited with a view to enabling it to become more of a program
management office for the AACG. Thus, the PIO's institutional capacity would need to be strengthened to
enable it to become the in-house econornic policy management team. The idea was that it would be
16



mainstreamed into the AACG in order to facilitate coordination of all donor-funded activities so as to
avoid duplication of efforts and ensure that donor investment interventions are consistent with the
country/region's development objectives. The PIO could thus be gradually transformed into the
equivalent of an Economic Development Council at the sub-national level which would be responsible for
program management functions including the formulation and coordination of all urban development
policies and initiatives in the AACG. This entity could function as the technical secretariat to the senior
AACG management and be a forum for setting investment priorities within AACG.
8.7. Priority tasks in Addis Ababa Development: During 1997, considerable progress was made with
defining a program of targeted interventions from an institutional strengthening context, in a participatory
manner involving various stakeholders, through the proposed AACBP (see para 8.5). However, there was
a change in the management leadership within AACG which had other priorities and the Central
Government did not pursue for IDA assistance in this regard. Consequently, further preparation efforts
were halted. The contribution of Addis Ababa to the national economy is significant. Of the total private
sector investment requested at national level, about 54% is in Addis Ababa. However, only a smaller
fraction of the total amount is realized (less than half) because of: (i) lack of adequate infrastructure
(roads, water, electricity, etc.) (ii) lack of efficient provision of land and construction permits; (iii) lack of
adequate financial resources to provide basic public services, etc. The consequences of not addressing
these city management and service delivery issues in Addis Ababa could result in potentially serious
social and economic consequences not only to the residents but also to the nation. It is, therefore,
imperative that making available the necessary assistance in the form of strengthening the city's overall
program and financial management capacity, including improving revenue mobilization and
enhancement, needs to be seriously considered to enable the functioning of the national economy properly
and to effectively address poverty and basic service delivery issues in Addis Ababa.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency: See Annex 13 for the Borrower's contribution to the ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers: Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector): Not Available
10. Additional Information
10.1. About US$2.3 million was canceled from the credit around August 1998 after a determination was
made that those monies would not be effectively utilized given the time remaining till credit closing.
Approximately US$3.7 million of the credit remains undisbursed (after reconciliation between overdrawn
and under drawn categories of about US$292,000). Therefore, expected savings, at a maximum, could
amount to US$3.7 million which would have to be canceled from the credit.
17



10.2. The current status of the undisbursed monies and the reasons why are enumerated below:
Component                     Undisbursed              Reasons for Savings
as of 12/14/99
(in US$)
Sxites and Services (civil works)   447,777  Actuals were less than originally budgeted.
Kebele Upgrading (civil works)       91,596  Weak implementation capacity of EDPO.
Sireet Maintenance (civil works)    408,684  Cancellation of one road which was planned
to be replaced by another but was not done.
Solid Waste Management (civil        85,074  On-site road in the landfill site and the truck
works)                                       park were not completed by the closing date.
Municipal Infrastructure              88,147  Unused amount on the extension of off-site
(electricity civil works)                    electricity.
Building Materials for Housing      278,265  This balance should have been reallocated to
Development (goods)                          other components as these materials were
____________   procured long before restructuring.
Vehicles and Equipment for         1,412,414  Pumps and other materials for AAWSA could
AACG and AAWSA (goods)                       not be procured due to delay in procurement
process. Also, represented in this amount is
the final payment for equipment stranded at
.__________   Assab port.
Street Maintenance Materials        262,433  Actuals were less than originally estimated.
(goods)
Consultant Services and Training    784,252  AAWSA was not able to pay for consultancy
for AACG and AAWSA                           services as the supervision work went beyond
(services)                                   the project closing date, also some AACG
________________________                  consultancy  savings.
Unallocated                          159,541
TOTAL                              3,926,587
18



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 1
Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
19



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSRI           Actual/Latest Estimate
See under Note below.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR1           Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Improvement in the quality of life of
approximately 6,000 households due to
infrastructure improvements in 6 pilot
kebeles.
(i) No. of stand pipe users.
(ii) No. of public toilet users.
(iii) Kms. of new/ improved access roads,
(iv) Tons of garbage collected! disposed.
2. Provision of adequate shelter for
2,250 households.
(i) No. of families with new homes.
3. Improvements in supporting
infrastructure.
(i) No. of community facilities such as
schools, markets, etc. established.
(ii) No. of housing units with water
supply connection.
(iii) Kms. of new! improved roads.
(iv) Kms. of new/ rehabilitated drains.
(v) No. of housing units with electricity
connection.
4. Provision of permanent water supply
in Jimma (1400 units), Ambo (500 units)
and Akaki (350 units) sites and services
comlponent.
(i) No of housing units with permanent
water supply connection.
5. Adequate maintenance of 20 kms of
asphalt roads and attendant drainage
improvements as well as maintenance of
additional roads in region using materials
and equipment purchased under the
project.
(i) Kms. of asphalt roads maintained and
improved.
(ii) Kms. of additional roads maintained
and improved using materials and
equipment purchased under project.
(iii) Kms. of drains maintained and
improved.
6. Improved solid waste management
funciLions.
(i) No. of tons of garbage collected/                             _
20



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matnix               Projected in last PSR'         Actual/Latest Estimate
See under Note below.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR1         Actual/Latest Estimate
disposed.
(ii) No. of households served by one skip.
(iii) Frequency of maintenance of
vehicles and equipment.
7. Improvement of the Akaki water
supply system in terms of expansion,
distribution, and management capacity
resulting in increased (8,300 m3/day) and
improved water supply to Akaki town.
(i) No. of new households with
permanent water supply.
(ii) No. of public water facility users.
(iii) Percent of unaccounted for water.
(iv) Frequency of maintenance of
equipment.
8. Improvement of delivery of public
services in the Addis Ababa region
through implementation of the Financial
Management System (FMS), the Urban
Land Management System (ULMS), and
provision of equipment to the different
bureaus.
(i) Percent of increase in revenue
collection.
1/ End of project
Note: During the project restructuring exercise, performance and impact indicators were identified and
included as part of the final restructured project proposal to enable effective monitoring and evaluation.
However, given the age of the project, the total absence of any kind of baseline data to evaluate project
impact, and the implementing agency's (PIO) limited capacity, it was agreed both between the
Government and IDA that it would not be practical or feasible to evaluate project impact with any degree
of detail. Project outputs, however, could be measured against realistic set targets which would give at
least some indication of the result of project activities and can be used as proxies for impact of the
investments. Subsequently, a couple of M&E reports were submitted by the PIO to IDA in 1998.
Thereafter, due to staff attrition (given that the project was due to close in June 1999) and attendant
severe capacity constraints, no further reports were submitted. Annex 9 of this ICR, however, provides
details on physical implementation indicators by key project component in terms of targets envisaged at
appraisal and what was completed at project completion
21



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 2
Project Cost and Financing
22



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal      Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US $million      US $million
Addis Ababa
Land Compensation                                 0.02             0.28          1400%
Sites and Services                                2.9              1.65           57%
Housing Development                               9.86             7.05           71%
Kebele Upgrading                                  3.41             1.56           46%
Municipal Infrastructure (Street Maintenance and  13.10           21.11           161%
Solid Waste Management)
Akaki
Civil Works                                       0.07             0.33          477%
Vehicles and Equipment                            0.46             0.23           49%
Water Supply Improvement                          4.44             3.93           89%
Institutional Support                             2.61             3.05           117%
Total Baseline Cost                              36.87            39.18           106%
Physical Contingencies                            3.35
Price Contingencies                               6.46
Total Project Costs                46.68            39.18            84%
Total Financing Required                 46.68            39.18           84%
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB         NCB          Other2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                       7.9          5.3                                  13.2
(6.8)       (4.2)                                (11.0)
2. Goods                       14.4                                               14.4
(9.9)                                            (9.9)
3. Services                                              2.8                      2.8
(1.8)                   (1.8)
4. Housing Development          2.5                      9.9                      12.4
(2.2)                   (7.0)                     (9.2)
5. Kebele Development                       2.8          1.1                      3.9
(2.3)       (0.8)                    (3.1)
6. Land Compensation                                     0.1                      0.1
(0.0)
Total                        24.8         8.1         13.9                     46.8
(18.9)      (6.5)        (9.6)                    (35.0)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes minor works, goods, consulting services, training, technical assistance services.
23



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                         1.7          2.6          1.4                       5.7
(1.4)       (2.2)         (1.2)                     (4.8)
2. Goods                        22.1          0.8          0.9                      23.8
(17.0)       (0.6)        (0.9)                    (18.5)
3. Services                                                3.0                       3.0
(3.0)                    (3.0)
4. Housing Development                                     4.7                       4.7
(3.8)                    (3.8)
5. Kebele Development                         1.3          0.3                       1.6
(1.0)        (0.2)                     (1.3)
6. Land Compensation                                       0.3                       0.3
(0.0)
Total                        23.8          4.7          10.7                      39.2
(18.4)       (3.8)        (9.2)                    (31.4)
I/ Figures in parenthesis are the amiounts financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes minor works, goods, consulting services, training, technical assistance services.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component          Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank   GoDvt.  Cofin-   Bank   Govt. Confin-  Bank  Govt.  Cofin-
ancier                  ancier                  ancier
Ad1dis Ababa
Land Compensation             0.02                     0.28                   1400%
Sites and Services    2.65    1.08             1.37    0.28            51%    26%
Housing Development   8.82    3.54             5.36    1.69            61%    48%
Kebele Upgrading      2.72    1.16             1.27    0.29            47%    25%
Municipal              13.6    3.4             16.09   5.02            118%   148%
Infrastructure (Street
Maintenance and Solid
Waste Management)
Akaki
Civil Works           0.07    0.02             0.30    0.03            422%   167%
Vehicles and          0.60                     0.17    0.06            29%
Equipment
Water Supply          4.31    1.44             3.79    0.15             88%    10%
Improvement
Institutional Support   2.28    0.98           3.05                    134%    0%
Total Project Costs   35.06   11.62            31.39  7.80            90%      67%
24



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 3
Economic Costs and Benefits
25



Annex 3: Economics Costs and Benefits
A.   Housing and Sites and Services
AddisAbaba (Jimma Road and Ambo Road) and Akaki Sites and Services
Sub-component                    Appraisal   Restructuring
_  _____________    esdmate
Addis Ababa Housing and Sites and Services -Jimma    1 9%         11.2%
Road and Ambo Road)
Akaki Housing and Sites and Services Scheme          17%          6.9%
Souirce: AKT Consultants, Implementation Coimpletion Report of the Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project June
1959.
1.   The sites and service component of Addis Ababa and Akaki (on and off-site infrastructure and
housing development) comprised of U'S$11.67 million or 32% of the base project cost. At restructuring
the component was reduced to US$9.08 million. As both housing construction and construction of on-
and off-site infrastructure have not been completed, the economic rate of return was not re-calculated.
The benefit from the housing and site and services is expected to be far below the SAR due to:
*  Significant variations in construction cost that occurred;
-  The additional allocations for emergency water supply, street lighting, maintenance of on-site
roads and drainage, additional works on roads and drainage;
T The monetary and labor contribution of cooperatives;
* The allocation of resources from the institutional support component (through allocations from
PIO) for organization of cooperatives, supervision of housing and on-site infrastructure
construction;
- The allocation of additional resources for community facilities; and
- Delayed completion (procurement of housing material and construction site road and changes in
FY 1991/92 but first batch was completed in FY 1996/97)
2.   The results of a beneficiary survey provides the characteristics of the participants and other
attributes are summarized below.
Benieficiaries Characteristics          Type of Houses (%)          Total
A    B            C    D
Place of Work
Employee of region 14            52.8    33.3      2.8     11.1    15.9
bureau/Offices
Other government office employees  47.0    31.5    2.0     19.5    65.6
Non-Government Organizations    .42.9    42.9      0.0     14.3    6.2
Owners of Private Firm                   66.7      -       33.3    1.3
Other    _44.4    55.6                                     -        4.0
Monthly Salary
<790                             61.5    38.5      -       -        6.1
790-1290                         61.2    29.9      3.0     6.0      31.5
1291-2500                       41.1  --38.3      2.8      17.8    50.2     -
26



Beneficiaries Characteristics             Type of Houses (%)           Total
:___-___-__----_   A   1B         C       ID
Place of Work
2501 and over                     19.2    26.9       -        53.8     12.2
Age Group                                  _                        _  _
25-29                             60.0    40.0       -        -        2.2
29-34                             51.3    30.8       -        17.9     17.3
35-39                             47.5    37.5       2.5     112.5     35.6
40-44                             37.1    40.3       1.6      21.0     27.6
45-49                             66.7    3.7        7.4      22.2     12.0
50-55                             41.7    33.3       -        25.0     5.3
Gender
Male                              47.1     32.1      2.7      18.2     81.0
Female                            45.5    43.2       -        11.4      19.0
__      __          __              __I                         1:
Educational Attainmentl
12 completed or less              44.4    44.4       5.6      5.6      8.3
Diploma                           57.4    34.0       -       l 8.5     21.6
First Degree                      43.1     35.8      1.6      19.5     56.4
Second Degree                     46.7    20.0       -        33.5     13.8
Martial Status                     __r
Never married                     52.4    26.2       -        21.4      18.2
Currently married                 44.8    36.5       2.8      16.0     78.4
Divorced                          -        100.0    -         -        0.4
Separated                         100           -             -        0.4
Widowed                           50.2      16.7     -        33.3     2.6
Total                             46.7    33.5       2.2      17.6      100
Total                             1004    810        44       200      2058             1
Source: AKT Consultants, Implementation Completion Report of the Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project June
1999.
Note: Average income = 1,548.4 Average household size = 5
B.   Kebele Upgrading Component
Sub-component                                       Appraisal   Re-estimate
Kebele Upgrading                                    14.8%       ! 13.2%
Source: AKT Consultants, implementation Completion Report of the Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project June
1999.
3.   At appraisal the Kebele Upgrading component was US 4.5 million or 12% of the base cosT of the
project (US$36.86 million). On restructuring the re-estimated ERR ranges from as low as 4.2% to 20.1%
depending on the imputed rent. Assuming a realistic value for rent, an ERR value of 13.2% is obtained. .
27



C.   Street Maintenance Componment
Sub-component                                    Appraisal   Re-estimate
Street Maintenance                               18% (15.6)  (4.7%) to 9.0%
4.   This component had represented 22 % of the base cost of the project. At appraisal the economic
rate of return was estimated at 18%. Re-estimated under two sets of scenario for traffic growth, re-
estimated ERR ranged between -4.7%/o and +9.0%. Note, although the ERR at appraisal was 18% it
should have been 15.6%. Traffic data was not available to do a re-evaluation of the ERR.
D.   Akaki Water Supply Scheme
Slb-componenf                                   4Appraisal   Restructuring
Re-estimate
Akaki Water Supply Expansion Scheime             9.6%        2.9%
5.   This cost of this component at iappraisal was estimated at US$4.44 million out of total base project
cest of US$36.86 million. At restructuring the total estimated cost of the Akaki water supply scheme was
estimated to be US$5.4 million. The ERR was estimated at appraisal to be 9.6%. The restructured project
ERR estimate after completion is 2.99%o. This is largely due to the fact that the IDA-financed portion
comprised of production capacity, related electro-mechanical equipment and primary distribution. The
Government decided because of the overall reallocation of the component budget to finance the secondary
and tertiary distribution system from its own resources. At project closing, the secondary and tertiary
distribution system has not been fully commissioned. As a result, the full production capacity of the IDA
financed component is currently under-utilized resulting in, therefore, an expectedly low ERR.
28



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 4
Bank Inputs
29



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle            Nio. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
MonthNYear               Count              Specialty           Implementation       Development
Progress           Objective
Appraisal: February 1990            2 Financial Analysts, 2           NA                  NA
Municipal Engineers
Negotiations: April 16-20,    5    2 Financial Analysts, Sr.          NA                  NA
1990                                Municipal Engineer, Sr.
Counsel, Disbursement
Officer
Board: June 20, 1990          4    Financial Analyst, Sr.             NA                  NA
Municipal Engineer, Country
_____________________   _______   Economist, Sr. Counsel
Effectiveness: November                                               NA                  NA
12, 1990   ,,,,
October 15-26, 1990           3    Financial Analyst, 2       _ _
___________________              VMunicipal Engineers
January 9-11, 1991            1    Municipal Engineer                            _
November 25-December 6,       4    Sr. Urban Planner, Sr.               1                  1
1991                                Municipal Engineer,
.Municipal Engineer,
]Financial Analyst
June 15-July 18, 1992         3    Sr. Urban Planner, Sr.               1
Municipal Engineer,
Financial Analyst
May 12-31, 1993               4     Sr. Urban Planner, Municipal       2                   2
E]ngineer, Financial Analyst,
Chartered Surveyor
October 28-November 12,       3     Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.
1993                                M4unicipal Engineer,              NA                  NA
L                      ______    Financial Analyst
April 6-22, 1994 (Project     4     Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.
Restructuring Mission)              Municipal Engineer,               NA                  NA
Flinancial Analyst, Urban
PElanner
June 12-22, 1994 (Follow-     I    tJrban Planner
up Project Restructuring                                              NA                  NA
Mission)                         _              _
October 10-21, 1994,          5    Financial Analyst, Sr.              U                   S
Sanitary Engineer, Young
rFtofessional, Consultant,
Operations Analyst
November 28-December 2,       2     Sr. Operations Officer,          'NA                  NA
1994                                Urban Planner
March 16-30, 1995             1    Sr. Municipal Engineer              S                   S
Mid 1995                      2    PT. Operations Officer, Sr.          S                  U
L __________________________     Municipal Engineer          __
30



Stage of Project Cycle           No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
Month/Year               Count            Specialty           Implementation      Development
Progress          Objective
January 17-18, 1996          1    Pr. Operations Officer            NA                 NA
February 1-13, 1996          1    Sr. Sanitary Engineer             NA                 NA
April 24 - May 10, 1996      4    Pr. Operations Officer,            S                  S
Municipal Engineer,
Operations Analyst,
Disbursement Officer
(Resident Mission)
October 14-November 7,       7    Pr. Operations Officer, Sr.        S                  S
1996                               Municipal Engineer, Civil
Engineer, Operations Officer
(Resident Mission), Urban
Transport Specialist, 2
Consultants
February 3-15, 1997          4    Pr. Operations Officer, Civil      S                  U
Engineer, Operations Officer
(RM), Consultant
May 30-June 12, 1997         4    Pr. Operations Officer, Civil      S                  U
Engineer, Operations Officer
______  (RM), Consultant
August 21-26, 1997           4    Pr. Operations Officer, 2          U                  U
Operations Officers (RM),
Consultant
October 20-November 5,       5    Pr. Operations Officer, Civil      U                  U
1997                              Engineer, 2 Operations
Officers (RM), Consultant
May 3-13,1998                5    Pr. Operations Officer, Civil      U                  U
Engineer, 2 Operations
Officers (RM), Consultant
August 4-7, 1998             4    Pr. Operations Officer, 2          U                  U
Operations Officers (RM),
Consultant
November 9-13, 1998          3    Pr. Operations Officer,            U                  U
Operations Officer (RM),
Consultant
May 3-7, 1999                4    Pr. Operations Officer,            U                  U
Municipal Engineer,
Operations Officer (RM),
Consultant
August 2-13, 1999 (ICR       5    Pr. Operations Officer,           NA                  NA
Mission)                           Municipal Engineer,
Operations Officer (RM),
Financial Management
Specialist, Consultant
31



(1) Staffg
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
________________________        = No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation    __
Appraisal/Negotiation                  28.5                       77.2
Supervision                           185.1                      528.2
ICR                                      Li                       40.0
Total                                 213.6                      645.4
"Preparation of this project and the MAarket Towns Development Project (Cr. 2103-ET) was done
together as originally both projects were one (i.e. the Integrated Urban Development Project). However, a
decision was made to split the project around June 1989 into two such that activities in Addis Ababa
comprised the Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project and those in the other urban areas were
subsumed under the Market Towns Development Project. Project preparation costs, therefore, are not
reflected under SAAP but are captured under the Market Towns Development Project. The total cost of
preparing both projects is about US$ 256,400 and total staff weeks equal 110.9.
2/ The WPA system has been discontinued therefore number of staff weeks not applicable anymore.
32



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 5
Ratings for Achievement of
Objectives/Outputs of Components
33



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(]I=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
IX] Macro policies                            []H[]SU[]M[]N 1X] NA
IXJ Sector Policies                           [ ] H [ I SU [ ] M fX N [] NA
IX] Physical                                  [JH []SU IXIM [ IN []NA
)XI Financial                                 []H []SU []M [N7N []NA
/X] Institutional Development                 [ ]    [ ]SU [  M IX] N [ ]NA
JXI Environmental                             [  H [ ] SU LXI M [IN r ]NA
Social
[X] Poverty Reduction                    [ ]H [ ]SU XM [] N [I]NA
[X] Gender                               []H []SU []M  IXIN []NA
IX] Other (Please specify)               []H []SU [IM [IN /X]NA
[XI Private sector development                [ ] H [ ] SU [ I M [ ] N [XI NA
:X] Public sector management                  [ ] H [ ] SU [ ] M [X] N [ INA
/  Other (Please specify)                   [ ]H [ ]SU [ ]M [ IN [XNNA
34



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 6
Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
35



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(]HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
[I] Lending                                                 U
IC] Supervision                                             S
fX] Overall                                                 U
6.2 Borrowerperformance
Rating
[X] Preparation                                             S
/i] Government implementation performance                   U
fir] Implementation agency performance                      U
IX] Overall                                                 U
36



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 7
List of Supporting Documents
37



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report (No. 8632'-ET)
2. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (No. P-5334-ET)
3. Development Credit Agreement, August 13, 1990
4. AAAR Project Agreement, August 13, 1990
5. AWSA Project Agreement, August 13, 1990
6. HSB Project Agreement, August 13, 1990
7. Project Restructuring Proposal, May 1996
8. Amendment of the DCA, April 30, 1997
9. Amendment of the AAAR Project Agreement, April 30, 1997
10. Amendment of the AWSA Project Agreement, April 30, 1997
11. Amendment of the HSB Project Agreement, April 30, 1997
12. Cancellation and Reallocation of Credit Proceeds, August 3, 1998
13. AAWSA Project Evaluation Report, June 1999
14. CBB Implementation Completion Report, June 1999
15. Implementation Completion Report, Main Report, June 1999, AKT Consultants
16. Back-to-office Reports with relevant attachments (July 1992 to August 1999)
38



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 8
Related Bank Loans/Credits
39



Annex 8. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Title                    Purpose              Year of Approval           Status
First Urban Development      *  Lower-cost, replicable       1983                Completed in June
Project (Cr. 1366-ET)           approaches to housing                            1991
including the development of
serviced sites for self-help
house construction in Addis
Ababa for families above the
poverty threshold.
*  Upgrading of environmental
conditions and infrastructure
in Addis Ababa for those
farnilies below the poverty
threshold.
* Technical assistance to HSB
to identify and begin to
address key issues associated
with the maintenance of urban
rental housing schemes and
road systems in Addis Ababa.
40



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 9
Key Implementation Indictors
41



Annex 9. Key Implementation Indicators
Tabie 1A: Key Implementation Indicators for Sites and Services: Infrastructure Development
Description                  Unit              Quantity             Construction    Maintenance    PHO      FHO
days
Appraisal Restructuring Actual Contract Actual
Ambo Road Housing Site
Gravel road (on site)         Km         NAV                 3.63      100    479 804           04/07/94  21/06/96
Asphalt road (Access)         Km           0.8               1.03       90
Communal facilities in        No.           0            0      3      177    201               27/11/98
housing sites
Storm water drainage         Km          NAP                 0.58     270    900                30/06/95
Electricity Supply                                                   NAV   NAV
Jimma Road Housing Site
Gravel road (on site)         Km         NAV                11.27     270    978 1042           15/08/95  22/06/98
Asphalt road (Access)         Km           1.8               2.87      210
Communal facilities           No.           4            4      4     400    572                18/05/99
Storm water drainage          Km         NAV                 9.02     281
Electricity Supply                                                   NAP   NAP
Akaki Housing Site
Gravel road (on and off site)  Km        NAV                 2.36    NAV   NAV
Communal facilities          No.            0            0      3      120    164 826           29/03/94  517/95
Electricity Supply                                                   NAP   NAP
NAV - Not Available
NAP - Not Applicable
PHO - Provisional Hand Over
FHO - Final Hand Over
42



Table IB: Key Implementation Indicators for Sites and Services: Housing Development
Number of housing units             Construction period        Completion time
Description               Appraisal Restructuring   Actual Contract      Actual Maintenance     PHO       FHO
Ambo site
Core + 0 (A)                   100         100         224    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Core + 1 (B)                  250          250         206    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Core + 2 (C)                     0           0           0    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Core + 3 (D)                   150         150          36    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Others (ground +1)               0           0          28    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Sub-Total                     500          500         494
Jimma road site
Core + 0 (A)                   280         280         604    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Core + I (B)                   700         700         500    NAP         NAP          NAP      NAP       NAP
Core +2 (C)                      0           0           0    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Core + 3 (D)                  420          420         164    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Others (ground +1)               0           0         132    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Sub-Total                     1400        1400        1400
Akaki site
Core + 0 (A)                    70          70         176    NAP         NAP          NAP      NAP       NAP
Core + I (B)                   176          176        104    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Core+2(C)                      104          104         44    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Core +3 (D)                      0           0           0    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Others (ground +1)               0            0         26    NAP         NAP         NAP       NAP       NAP
Sub-Total                      350         350         350
Total (1+2+3)                2,250        2,250      2,244
43



Table 2: Key Implementation Indicators for Kebele Upgrading Civil Works and Flood Control Projects
Quantity           Construction    Maintenance    PHO      FHO
Days
Description          Unit Appraisal Restructuring Actual Contrac Actual
t
Implemented by Private
Contractors
Woreda 8 Kebele 23            NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP        600    500          459  08/07/96 12/10/97
Woreda 8 Kebele 24 first***   NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP                            495  30/07/96 20/11/97
Woreda 8 Kebele 24 second     NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP        180    340                03/10/98
Woreda 8 Kebele 25            NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP        180    441          391  26/06/97 22/07/98
Woreda 2 Kebele 17            NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP        273    304                24/03/99
Woreda 14 Kebele 21           NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP        312    366                14/05/99
Sub-total
Implemented by EDPO
Woreda 7 Kebele 30            NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP        187    655
Woreda 7 Kebele 31            NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP        220    683
Woreda 7 Kebele 32            NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP        237    654
Woreda 7 Kebele 33            NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP        355    637
Woreda 6 Kebele 08            NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP       NAV
Woreda 5 Kebele 22            NAP  NAP        NAP          NAP        180
Sub-total
Total
Total Kebeles Covered No    15      36           11
Physical Status of Upgrading
Civil Works
Asphalt Road                  km              18.57        1.67   NAP   NAP   NAP             NAP       NAP
Gravel Road                   km              55.57        1.12   NAP   NAP   NAP             NAP       NAP
Paved stone Road              km              5.57         7.13   NAP   NAP   NAP             NAP       NAP
Paved stone Drainage          km              35.76        8.16   NAP   NAP   NAP             NAP       NAP
Concrete Pipe Drainage        km              5.2          5.03   NAP   NAP   NAP             NAP       NAP
44



Quantity          Construction    Maintenance    PHO      FHO
Days
Description         Unit Appraisal Restructuring Actual Contrac Actual
t
Slab Bridge                  No.             26                 NAP   NAP   NAP             NAP       NAP
Foot Bridge                  No.             26                 NAP   NAP   NAP             NAP       NAP
Communal latrine             No.  66         156         40     NAP   NAP   NAP             NAP       NAP
Public pipe points           No.  11         104         27     NAP   NAP   NAP             NAP       NAP
Hard stands                  No.  28         78           19    NAP   NAP   NAP             NAP       NAP
Street lighting              No.  350        0           0      NAP   NAP   NAP             NAP       NAP
45



Table 3: Key Implementation Indicators for Street Maintenance Civil Worke
Street Name            Street Length (km)            Construction Days
Appraisal Restructuring Actual Contract  Actual  Maintenance    PHO      FHO
1. Sahie Selassie Bridge to Semen      NAP          NAP   2.34        270      334          380  16/10/96  31/10/97
Hotel & from Northern
Municipality by the Lazarist
Mission to Addisu Gebeya
2. French Embassy to Jesus Church      NAP          NAP    1.19       180      318          428  28/08/96  31/10/97
3. Enkulal Fabrica to Rufael           NAP          NAP   0.64        210      318          428  28/08/96  31/10/97
4. Dil Paint Factory by the Eth. Coffe  NAP         NAP   2.20        270      458                25/02/97
Board to Diabaco
5. Old Bulgaria Embassy to Debre       NAP          NAP    1.44       210      311          420  10/09/96  05/11/97
Zeit Road
6. Belair Hotel by Aware to 6* Police  NAP          NAP    1.30       280      488                27/03/97
Station
7. The Three Ketechen Roads            NAP          NAP    3.74       450      548                19/05/97
8. Medhanealem School to Kolfe         NAP          NAP    1.66       210      507                08/04/97
Children Center
9. Janmeda to Minilik Hospital         NAP          NAP    1.08       150      103                04/06/98
10. Coffee Board Junction to Seminary  NAP          NAP    1.15       179      165               06/05/98
College
11. French Embassy to Bella            NAP          NAP    1.56       150      187               04/06/98
12. Ground Force Garage to Jesus       NAP          NAP   2.16        210
Church
13. British Embassy to Traffic Office  NAP          NAP    1.61       160      186               03/06/98
14. Diabaco through Bisrate Gebriel    NAP          NAP   3.07        405      421               26/01/99
Church to Jimma Road and from
Diabaco to Vatican Embassy
Total                                   31.7         31.7  25.14
46



Table 4: Key Implementation Indicators for Solid Waste Management Civil Works
Quantity            Construction Days     PHO           FHO
Description                        Unit   Appraisal Restructuring  Actual Contract    Actual
Building and Fence Work            Site           I            I       1                       2/23/98      5/27/99
On-site asphalt road construction and   Km    NAV          NAV    1.69        121              June 99
off-site maintenance
Truck Park                         No.            0            1       1      240              June 99
Solid Waste Containers             No.          140         1362   1362
47



Table 5: Key Implementation Indicators for Akaki Water Sunpplv Component
Description                   Unit            Quantity            Construction Days   Completion date
Appraisal Restructuring Actual  Contract  Actual     Pl-O    FHO
Phase -I
Akaki Water Supply
Civil Work                                                             720    1415   15/11/98
a. Pipe laying                 km       NAV          15.95  15.91
b. Reservoirs (1500 and 800 m3)   No.   NAV           2.00   2.00
c. Auxiliary Building          Ls       NAV
Sub-total (civil work)                  NAV
Construction of Boreholes      No.      NAV           3.00   3.00     NAV      780    Apr. 97
Mechanical and Electrical Works   Ls    NAV                           NAV       90    Oct. 95
Supply of Pipes and Accessories   km    NAV          15.92  17.20     NAV
Phase -2
Akaki and Hlousing Site
Civil Work
a. Pipe laying                 km       NAV          53.00  32.83
b. Reservoirs (800 m3)         No.     1NAV           1.00   1.00
c. Auxiliaiy Buildings         Ls       NAV
Sub-total (civil work)
Mechanical and Electrical Works   Ls    NAV
Supply of Pipes and Accessories   km    NAV          53.00  32.83
Note. Civil Works under phase-2 are not part of the SAAUDP cost but they are part of the Akaki Water Supply and the Sites and Services Project
48



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 10
Studies and Training included in the Project
49



Annex 10. Studies and Training included in the Project
Component (agency)'    Study                           Purpose                                       Status       Impact of Study
STUDIES
KUG-CW                  Detailed engineering design in  Prepare detailed civil works design          Completed   Upgrading civil works.
(PlOzlocal consultant)  target kebeles                 Minimize dislocations due to project
SM-CW                   Drainage implications of road  Study the type and volume of drainage works   Completed
(PIO=>AARAz:'Local    maintenance                      needed to ensure sustained impact of maintenance
Consultant)                                            works.
SWM-CW & VME2           Report of First Tranche Technical  Evaluate performance of project procurements  Completed  Impact not felt due to
(Foreign Consultant)    Assistance Intervention        Identify the VME needs of the SWM system and               prevailing political & adm.
prepare technical specifications                          environment.
Identify new disposal site out of five sites in the
City Master Plan
SWM-CW & VME3           Reports of Second & Third      Evaluate performance of project procurements.  Completed   New vehicle & equip.
(Foreign Consultant)    Tranche Technical Assistance   Identify weaknesses in SWM cycle & recommend               needs identified, technical
Intervention (including training)   improvements in each stage.                          specification. prepared &
Identify the VME needs of the SWM system and              procured.
prepare technical specifications.                         Trained Head of SWM
Identify new disposal site out of five sites in the       Unit.
City Master Plan.                                         Improvements in VME
Train SWM Unit staff on SW data collection,               mgt. & organizational
analysis, design & implementation of better VME           structure suggested.
utilization methods.
SWM-CW & VME4           Report of Fourth Intervention of   Evaluate performance of project procurements.  Partly
(Foreign Consultant)    Technical Assistant            Evaluate alternative disposal mechanisms and  Completed
feasibility of re-cycling waste and improvements
in disposal site management practices.
'Component refers to the one affected directly by the study, training, workshop; not necessarily the component from which the study was financed. Agency refers to
the agency responsible for overall organization or execution (or both) of the activity (study, training, workshop).
2 VME is procurement of vehicles, machinery and equipment.
3 VME is procurement of vehicles, machinery and equipment.
4VME is procurement of vehicles, machinery and equipment.
50



Component (agency)'    Study                          Purpose                                     Status       Impact of Study
STUDIES
WSI                    Study on Water Tariff Structure    Evaluate the tariff structure and suggest a new  Completed   New tariff schedule
(Foreign Consultant)                                  schedule to ensure better cost recovery.                 adopted in 1995; a
"survival rate" & rates that
rise with utilization
applied.
IS-TA                  Study to Modernize Payroll    Improve financial management practices to ensure  Completed
(Local consultant)     Preparation and Payment in     availability of sufficient resources & cost recovery
AACG                          mechanisms.
** A major Financial Mgt. study plannedfor in
SAR has been canceled by govt as part of AA-
CBP.
IS                     Study on Urban Development &
(PIO, WUDB)            Information Needs
WSI                    Organization and Management    Streamline organizational structure of AAWSA,    Completed
(AWSA, local           Study                          and improve MIS system
consultant)
SWM                    "Designing a strategy for project                                          Completed
(PIO, local consultant)   for community-based
environmental sanitation"
(1998/99)
SM                     Study on Road Transport System
(PIO, AA Roads Auth.)  in Addis Ababa
SWM                    Study on Management            Design an MIS for Sanitation and assess financial   Completed   Fund for implementing the
(PIO)                  Information System for Sanitation  requirements                                         project has been requested
Activities in Addis Ababa (with                                                        from EU
UNDP Regional Water &
Sanitation Group for East &
Southern Africa) (1998/99)
SM                     Street maintenance: study on   Identify the institutions involved in street  Completed
(PIO, IDA)             institutional set-up and system  maintenance; identify main deficiencies in
requirements for SM and traffic    maintenance/traffic management
management
WORKSHOPS, PANEL, DISCUSSIONS, ETC
51



Component (agency)'    Study                          Purpose                                      Status      Impact of Study
STUDIES
SAAUDP                 Panel Discussion on            Create awareness/sensitize agencies and their staff  Completed
(PIO)                  "Development Problems ofAddis  regarding the role of PIO (SAAUDP)
and Role of SAA UDP" (for half-a-
day)
RM                     Urban Transport Workshop (half-                                             Completed
(PIO)                  a-day)
SWM                    Workshop on SWM study          Discuss findings of the study undertaken by  Completed   PIO-led committee to
(PIO)                  "Environmental Sanitation Case   foreign consultants (sponsored by UNICEF) and          ensure and follow-up
Study" undertaken by foreign  design mechanisms for implementation of its              implementation has been
consultants (two days)        recommendations.                                         set up.
SAAUDP                 Workshop on the iitiative for  Assess institutional, material, and human resource   Completed   Follow-up action not taken
(P1O)                  Addis Ababa Capacity Building    needs for better provision of public services and      because initiative was not
Project (3 days)              design an investment program to be financed by           approved by government.
SAAUDP
SWM                    A workshop on "Institutional set-  Create sustainable conditions for environmental    Completed
(PIO)                  up for environmental sanitation"   sanitation in Addis Ababa
and a workshop on "Financing
enviromnental sanitation"
(1998/99).
TRAINING
SM                     A two-week visit for Road      Enhance the awareness/experience of road mgt.    Completed
(PIO)                  Authority Board Members and    staff regarding road (road maintenance) systems
Executives
IS                     Computer training for AACG:    Improve data processing capacity of AACG    Completed
(PIO)                  1995/96
IS                     Computer training for EDPO,    Improve data processing capacity of AACG    Completed
(PIO)                  PIO, Health Bureau (1997/98)
IS                     Training on Financial Accounting                                           Completed
(PIO & Debre Zeyt Mgt  for six staff of PIO and 2 from
Irstitute)             other AACG agencies (1998/99)
52



Component (agency)'    Study                          Purpose                                      Status      Impact of Study
STUDIES
IS                     Training on Project Planning,                                               Completed
(PlO & Debre Zeyt Mgt  Implementation Monitoring and
Institute)             Evaluation from 11 staff from
other AACG agencies (1998/99)
IS                     Training on Ethics in Public                                                Completed
(PIO & Debre Zeyt Mgt   Management from II PIO staff
Institute)             and 14 from other AACG
agencies (1998/99)
IS                     Training on Budgetary Planning                                              Completed
(PIO & Debre Zeyt Mgt   and Control hics in Public
Institute)             Management for 2 PIO staff and
10 from other AACG agencies
(1998/99)
iS                     Trainings for 22 staff (1998/99)                                            Completed
(PIO & Debre Zeyt Mgt   on:
Institute)             *  Record Management
* Office Operation &
Management (levels I & II)
IS                     Training on operation of newfire-                                           Completed
(PIO)                  fighting equipment for 4 staff of
Fire Brigade in South Africa
(1998/99)
IS-project management   Training on Contract          Improve implementation performance by        Completed   Limited impact due to
(PIO)                  Management for PIO staff (3    speeding-up and better manage procurement                early resignation of the
persons-i in Accra and 2 in   contracts.                                               trained staff.
Nairobi)
53



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 11
Sbtatus of Legal Covenants
54



Annex 11. Status of Legal Covenants
(as per the restructured project)
Section      Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant        Comments
Reference/     Status   Fu1filment  Fulfilment
Covenant Class               Date        Date
Development Credit Agreement
2.02 (b)/ I/    C                                 Opening of Special Accounts for    Complied with
l  l        l           | CBB, AAWSA and AAAR
AAAR Project Agreement
3.04 / 7        C                                 In carrying out Part B (upgrading    Complied with
of kebeles), AAAR to implement
in a manner satisfactory to IDA a
resettlement plan for the people
whose homes may be affected.
4.01(a)         C I                               AAAR to maintain records and    Complied with
accounts for Parts A. I
(development of housing sites and
services), B (upgrading of
kebeles), C (infrastructure
improvement in Addis Ababa), D
(solid waste management in Addis
Ababa), and F. I (institutional
development for AAAR) of the
____________ ___  ________ _   _____  Project.
4.01(b) /I      C                                 AAAR to have accounts audited   Complied with
within nine months of end of fiscal
year and submit to IDA
4.0 1/2         NC                                AAAR to take all appropriate    Not complied
measures to recover on-site    with
infrastructure costs associated with
carrying out Part A. 1 (development
of housing sites and services) of
______________ _the project from the beneficiaries.
AAWSA Project Agreement
3.04 /2         C         09/30/91                AAWSA to carry out a Water      Complied with
Tariff Study and consult with IDA
prior to implementation of the
recommendations.
4.01(a) I       C                                  AAWSA to maintain records and    Complied with
accounts for Parts E (water supply
in Akaki) and F.2 (institutional
development for AAWSA)of the
Project.
4.01(b) I       C                                  AAWSA to have accounts audited   Complied with
within 12 months of end of fiscal
year for first two years and within
nine months of end of fiscal year
for subsequent years and submit to
IDA.
4.01(c) /I      C                                  AAWSA to have SOEs included in  Complied with
audit report with separate opinion.
4.02(a) /2      CP                                 AAWSA to produce for each fiscal  Complied with
55



Section      Present   Original    Revised         Description of Covenant        Comments
Reference/     Status   Fulfilment  Fulfilment
Covenant Class               Date        Date
year total revenues equivalent to    partially
not less than the sum of (i) total
operating expenses and (ii) the
amount by which debt service
exceeds the provision for
depreciation.
4.02(b) /2      CP                                 AAWSA shall prepare forecasts to   Complied with
determine whether it will meet  partially
4.02(a).
4.02(c) /2      CP                                 AAWSA to take all necessary     Complied with
measures to meet 4.02 (a).      partially
CBB Project Agreement
2.06(a) / 3     C                                  CBB to extend loans to          Complied with
individuals, coops and self-help
groups for house construction
under terms, conditions and
eligibility criteria acceptable to
IDA.
2.06(b) / 3     C          12/31/90                CBB to enter into an agreement  Complied with
with AAAR for bulk purchase of
building materials.
2.07 /3         C                                  CBB to extend sub-loans to      Complied with
selected cooperatives for the
construction of residential houses
under terms and conditionis
approved by IDA including interest
at the prevailing market rate, and a
repayment period of 25 years,
including a grace period of one
__ __ __ __ __ ___ _  ___  year.
4.01(a)/ 1      C                                  CBB to maintain records and     Complied with
accounts for Part A.2 (sub-loans
for housing units and related
services in Addis Ababa and
Akaki) of the Project.
4.01(b) / I     C                                  CBB to have accounts audited    Complied with
within nine months of end of fiscal
___________________     ________    _________    year and  submit to  IDA.
Action Taken                           Covenant Class
C - Complied With                      I - Accounts/Audit
CD - Compliance after Delay            2 - Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
CP - Complied with Partially           3 - Flow and utilization of Project funds
NC - Not Complied With                 4 - Counterpart funding
5 - Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 - Environmental covenants
7 - Involuntary resettlement
8 - Indigenous peoples
9 - Monitoring, review and reporting
10 - Implementation
11 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 - Other
56



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 12
Mission Aide Memoire and its Attachments
57



Annex 12. ICR Mission Aide Memoire and its Attachments
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project (Credit 2161-ET)
Implementation Completion Review Mission, August 2-13, 1999
AIDE MEMOIRE
l.  Introduction
1.   An IDA team consisting of Mr. Gautam Sengupta (Team Leader), Mr. Yitbarek Tessema
(Operations Officer), Mr. Eshetu Yimer (Financial Management Specialist), Mr. Hamim
Magdon-Ismail (Engineer) and Ms. Sudeshna RoyChoudhury (Consultant) conducted an
Implementation Completion Review (ICR) mission in Ethiopia from August 2-13, 1999 of the
Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project (SAAP). The mission met with officials from
the Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation (MEDAC); the Ministry of Works and
Urban Development (MWUD); the Project Implementation Office (PIO), the Addis Ababa Water
and Sewerage Authority (AAWSA), the Addis Ababa Roads Authority (AARA), the Health
Bureau, and the Environmental Development Project Office (EDPO) of the Addis Ababa City
GDvernment; the Construction ancl Business Bank (CBB); and the Urban Development Support
Services l(UDSS) of the Ministry of Works and Urban Development (MWUD). This aide
memoire summarizes the mission's main findings and recommendations. The mission would
like to gratefully acknowledge the co-operation and assistance extended by all the officials
during its visit.
2.  Mission Objectives: The main objectives of the mission were to: (i) explain about the
Bank's requirement for the Government's contribution to the ICR; (ii) agree on the plan for the
future operations of the project to ensure sustainability of investments financed under the credit;
and (iii) elicit views of various stakeholders on the project.
II Background
3.   The project which became effective in November 1990 was restructured in July 1996 for
reasons enumerated in para. 6 below. The original project objectives were not changed during
the restructuring but some priorities within project components were re-ordered, some project
components were eliminated, some new elements added and the credit closing date was extended
by two years. In August 1998, a reallocation of credit proceeds was undertaken (see para. 8).
Again, the reallocation did not change the project objectives, no new component was added or
deleted and there was no further extension of the closing date. The reallocation exercise resulted
in a shift of funds towards those components that had a good implementation track record. In
addition, SDR 1.75 million from the credit was canceled from those activities that were unlikely
to be completed by the credit closing date of June 30, 1999.
58



A.  The Original Project
4.  In response to the severe shortage of housing, deteriorating physical infrastructure, unhealthy
environmental conditions, and inadequate financial and management capacity to effectively meet
the needs of a growing national capital, Addis Ababa, the previous Government of Ethiopia sought
IDA assistance in the sector. The Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project as a follow-on
to the First Urban Development Project was approved by IDA on June 20, 1990. The project's total
cost was estimated at US$46.7 million, to be financed by an IDA credit of SDR 27.1 million
(US$35 million equivalent5) and contributions from the Government of Ethiopia (US$1 million)
and the project agencies (US$10.7 million).
5.   The main objective of the project was to help improve basic infrastructure and environmental
conditions in the project areas of Addis Ababa and Akaki. The original project components were:
*  sites and services and core housing development in two locations in Addis Ababa and one in
Akaki;
*  upgrading of infrastructure and housing in some kebele (slum) areas in Addis Ababa and a
loan fund to finance revenue-generating projects for poor women and other development
projects in kebeles citywide;
*  street maintenance and improvements to solid waste management in Addis;
*  improvements to municipal infrastructure in Akaki, and expansion of its water supply
system; and
*  institutional support programs to strengthen management and maintenance systems in the
project agencies.
6.   The project became effective in November 1990 and implementation progress was generally
satisfactory for the first two years of implementation. However, implementation of the project
virtually came to a standstill during 1993, 1994, and the early part of 1995, largely as a result of the
overall transition in the country. Rapid changes in institutional responsibilities and arrangements,
frequent changes in key project staff and uncertain and evolving economic policies of a government
in transition contributed to poor project implementation. While the new government accepted and
supported the fundamental objectives of these two projects, it decided to conduct a review of the
emphasis and implementation arrangements of the project, in light of the changes in the economic,
political and administrative environment. The government established two governing principles for
restructuring the project: (a) to redirect project activities in a way to maximize the benefits to the
poor by improving access to basic services; and (b) to strengthen management, financial and
technical capacity of service delivery/implementing agencies to improve efficiency and
sustainability of investments.
B.  Project Restructuring
7.  In December 1995, the project implementing agencies and IDA agreed, at a working level, on
a general framework for restructuring, as well as a revised implementation schedule. Following this
general agreement, however, there was a lengthy delay while the Government and IDA reached
5 Currently about US$38 million equivalent.
59



agreement on difficult policy and implementation arrangement issues. These were finally resolved
in April 1996, and the formal restructuring proposal (Project Restructuring Proposal, May 1996)
was submitted by the Government and agreed with IDA in July 1996. Eventual formalization of the
restructuring and the amended legal agreements was concluded in April 1997.
8   The original project objectives, which were consistent with the objectives and priorities of the
new government, remained unchanged during restructuring of the project. However, the project
was conceived and designed under a set of policies and circumstances which were no longer fully
applicable. The economic policies of the new government needed to be reflected in the restructured
project. Also, changes had taken place in world currency markets that affected the amount of the
credit remaining under the credit agreement. Therefore, though project objectives were not
changed, some priorities within the project components were re-ordered, some project components
vwere eliminated, and some new elements added.
9.   The primary objectives of the restructuring were: (i) to realign the project in a manner
consistent with the new Governmient's policies and priorities; and (ii) to direct financial and
technical resources to those activities which would have the most development impact. The main
departure from the original project was to focus the civil works activities more towards kebele
upgrading, given that almost 85 percent of the population in Addis Ababa lives in the kebeles
requiring infrastructure and environmental sanitation improvement, and to put more emphasis on
capacity building in the Addis Ababa City Government. The restructuring process took over two
years to be completed, to ensure full ownership of both the Central and the Addis Ababa City
Government. The original credit closing date of June 30, 1997 was extended by two years to
June 30, 1999 during the restructuring, to allow adequate time to complete all project activities.
C.  Reallocation of Credit Proceeds
10. Based upon actual implementation experience since project restructuring, the timely
implementation of the kebele upgrading program proved to be difficult given the weak
institutional capacity and lack of experience of the implementing agency, the EDPO. It became
evident that the scope of the kebele upgrading program would need to be reduced. Also, the
capacity building component expanded during project restructuring, proved to be too ambitious
in the context of evolving fundamental policy and systemic reforms in city administration.
G:iven the long term nature of capacity building initiatives, specially in the evolving context of
decentralization (Regionalization), both IDA and the Government considered it to be more
prudent to start afresh later in this regard. In August 1998, therefore, agreement was reached
with the Government on reallocation of credit proceeds among various project components
taking into account the developmtent priorities of Addis Ababa and the need for completing
activities by the credit closing date of June 30, 1999. The reallocation did not change the project
objectives, no new component was added or deleted, and there was no further extension of the
credit closing date.  Substantively, the reallocation aimed to shift funds towards those
components which had a good irmplementation track record. The major budget shift among
components concerned an increase for the purchase of additional municipal equipment for
essential city services by primarily reducing allocations from the kebele upgrading component
and other types of goods and equipment. Agreement was also reached to cancel SDR 1.75
million of the IDA credit from the component pertaining to long-term capacity building tasks
which were unlikely to be completed by the credit closing date.
60



III. Project Implementation Status
11. Attachment 1 summarizes the status of implementation of the various project components
at the credit closing date of June 30, 1999.
12. Site Visits: The IDA mission conducted site visits for some of the major components
financed under the credit. The main findings from these site visits are as follows:
(i) Akaki Water Supply: The mission visited the bore-hole pump remote control room, the chlorine
injection tank and the bore-holes from which water is pumped. Treated water is pumped twice a
day into the storage reservoir from which water is gravity fed into the reticulation system
supplying Akaki. All four bore-holes, three new and one upgraded have been commissioned.
The three new bore-holes are used for water supply with the upgraded bore-hole acting as a
standby. At the time of the visit there was no water production taking place. The Branch
Manager informed the mission that the system was operational and functioning satisfactorily.
The exterior approaches to the buildings at the site were messy as a result of the rains and also
construction debris from the adjacent water supply construction works. AAWSA indicated that
it will be carrying out the paving and tidying of the exterior premises at an appropriate time
when all works in the vicinity are completed. In addition, one of the public fountains was also
visited and appeared to be functioning and providing water in sufficient quantity. However, all
of the fountains have not been given water connections. This is because management and
administration arrangements between the kebeles and AAWSA have not yet been sorted out.
AAWSA indicated that this issue is being addressed. The mission learnt that the project's
intervention to augment water supply in Akaki has resulted in the identification of the full
potential of the aquifer which is substantial and further development and utilization by AAWSA.
(ii) Sites and Services at Jimma, Ambo andAkaki Roads: The mission visited the following sites:
(a) The Jimma Road housing scheme (1,400 houses): It should be mentioned here that the credit
financed housing loans through the CBB to housing cooperatives. These housing loans have been
fully disbursed but the actual construction of the houses are at various advanced stages, due
mainly to modifications of the plans in some housing cooperatives. The mission also noted that
there were very few residents at the Jimma Road housing scheme because of a lack of sufficient
water supply. The temporary water supply arrangement was not adequate. The community
facilities which were complete were not operational as very few people had moved into their
premises.  AAWSA informed the mission that permanent water supply (financed from
AAWSA's own resources) would be made available to residents in two months time. The
mission was informed that work on the permanent supply system has resumed with the
appointment of a new contractor. The mission noted that there is need to monitor this activity
closely so that people can move into the housing scheme as soon as possible. In addition, actions
should be taken to have the community facilities functioning as soon as the residents move in. It
was noted that the internal access roads to the houses from the main road were in poor condition
primarily due to the movement of heavy equipment due to the construction activity that is still
ongoing. The mission pointed out that the AACG should construct the access roads as soon as
the construction works on the houses is fully completed. The mission was informed that the PIO
has recently organized community committees to take over the operations and maintenance of
the on-site infrastructure. The mission was also given to understand that the development of this
61



housing scheme has had a synergistic effect in terms of further housing development and
increased public transport access in the immediate area mainly because of the ancillary
infrastructure such as roads, etc. that have been built.
(b) The Ambo Road housing scheme (500 houses): The residents of this housing scheme have
taken occupation recently.  There is temporary water supply available to the residents.
Permanent water supply will be provided by AAWSA from its own resources. AAWSA has
included the provision of permanent water supply in this site in the same contract for the
permanent water supply scheme for the Jimma Road housing site. However the community
facilities are not yet functional although the buildings and services are in place. The mission was
informed that the school is targetied to start classes at the beginning of the next academic year
while the health clinic has to be provided with the required staff, furniture and equipment.
Actions have been taken to have these become fully functional shortly. It was noted that the
imrportance of advance planning and timely provision of necessary budgets needs to be
etnphasized in future projects.
(iii) Kebele Upgrading: Woreda 7, Kebele 32 was visited. The upgrading work is complete. The
water supply fountain inspected was functioning under the management of the kebele
administration. The charge for 20 liters of water is 5 cents which is much cheaper than what the
community was paying prior to the supply of water in this manner. The hard stands for the
refuse containers are not in use. Tne mission was informed that as soon as the skips arrive they
will be deployed at the kebeles. Modalities are to be worked out for the safekeeping of the skips
when deployed. The mission nLoted that it is necessary that operational and maintenance
mechanisms are put in place in consultation with the community. The investments made must be
protected and built on. Commumity education and public awareness are essential for the
sustainability of the investments. In addition, a storm water canal retaining wall in Wereda 2,
Kebele 17 and Wereda 14, Kebele 21 (300 meters on either side of the stream) has been
completed satisfactorily and has stood the test of the recent heavy rainfall. The danger posed to
the houses and residents of the area by collapsing earth is not there and erosion has also been
minimized. Incomplete design work and inaccurate cost estimates are some of the problems that
were faced during implementation.
(iv) Repi Landfill (Tipping) Site: A substantial length of the permanent fence has been brought
down to give way to the Addis Ring Road. A temporary wooden pole fence has been erected in
its place. The off-site approach road to the landfill is complete but the on-site internal access
road under the same contract has riot been finished. The on-site access road is in poor condition
due to, possibly, design and constiuction inadequacies compounded by the sole owner contractor
passing away. Tipping is taking place outside the fenced area of the site because inclement
weather has made the area inside the fence inaccessible. Thus, the reduction in scavenging
anticipated by the fencing is not of relevance. The life of this tipping site is estimated to be
another five years. Therefore, consideration should be given to diverting the weigh-bridge to the
proposed new sanitary landfill site that is being considered. The workshop and the control office
for the weigh-bridge are there at t;he site but not in use. There are plans to use the workshop in
the near future to carry out routine maintenance of equipment. The sheep-foot compactor at the
site is out of order but will not be repaired as this equipment is unable to operate productively in
this site which is essentially a tipping site. It may be of use in the sanitary landfill to be
developed. The Health Bureau recognizes the limitations at the tipping site and its inability to
carry out landfill operations in an. environmentally friendly manner. For instance there are no
62



layers of cover material in between layers of refuse, there is no leachate control and treatment
though there is awareness and concern. The Health Bureau has begun studying the site from the
point of view of taking some stopgap measures for leachate control till the new landfill site is
commissioned. The equipment received and the investments made on the site have brought
some dividends in that the operations are much better than before. However, it is important that
the City Government focuses its attention on the whole issue of solid waste management and
also develops a new sanitary landfill urgently. Also, there are recommendations made by
consultants that need to be addressed without delay.
(v) Street Maintenance: The mission drove through some of the roads that have recently been
restored. The important point is the upkeep of these roads and the sustainability of the
investments. The mission was informed that there is no real holistic pavement management
system in place and this has led to ad hoc interventions. Traffic management systems are non-
existent and there is an urgent need for pervasive design standards.
During the site visits the mission focused on the need for constant awareness of the
importance of sustainability of all investments, forward planning for their upkeep,
maintenance and operational management systems and timely budget allocation.
13. Payments after Credit Closing Date: The mission informed the Government that
reimbursements from IDA would be made only for those goods, works and services received
and/or completed before the credit closing date of June 30, 1999 and such expenditures would be
paid from the credit proceeds for a period up to four months after the credit closing date, i.e.,
through October 31, 1999.
14. Payments for Retention Monies: IDA has agreed with the Government that it would be
eligible for reimbursements against retention monies to be paid to relevant civil works
contractors and suppliers of goods during the maintenance/defects liability period against an
acceptable bank guarantee received from such contractors/suppliers. Att4chment 2 summarizes
the agreed list of contractors/suppliers, amount of retention money to be paid against acceptable
bank guarantee, and the duration of the maintenance/defects liability period. The mission
advises the Government that reimbursements from IDA would be made against the agreed
amounts of retention money only through October 31, 1999. The Government should,
therefore, conclude these transactions and submit the necessary reimbursement requests as
soon as possible.
IV. Views of Stakeholders
15. The mission solicited the views of the implementing agencies within the Addis Ababa City
Government and direct beneficiaries on project implementation experience with respect to some
of the major components. The following highlights some of the key observations of the
stakeholders.
63



(i)+ Akaki Water Supply
*  AAWSA noted that with respect to upgrading of water supply in Akaki, beneficiary assessments
that were conducted indicate that water consumption by the beneficiaries has increased from 20
to 80 liters per family per day due to investments made under the project.
*  The public water fountains provided under the project have helped considerably in providing
easier access to safe water.
*  Average time spent by beneficiaries in collecting water has substantially reduced due to
increased number of water points.
* The investments under the project triggered actions by AAWSA to better utilize the frill supply
potential of the Akaki aquifer to benefit a large section of Addis Ababa.
*  Leak detection equipment and training contributed towards increasing operating efficiency of
AAWSA's operations as a whole.
*  The tariff study financed under the project contributed towards recognizing the importance of
sound financial management practices and its implementation is now being facilitated under the
ongoing IDA-financed Water Supply Development and Rehabilitation Project.
(ii') Sites and Services at Jimma, Ambo and Akaki Roads
* Supply of housing stock in the city has increased.
* Absence of timely provision of supporting infrastructure, particularly permanent water supply
has hindered rapid occupancy of completed units and no usage of community facilities.
* Offsite infrastructure has helped development of adjacent housing and transport facilities.
(iii) Kebele Upgrading
*  The component which espoused community participation and involvement in upgrading
activities has increased the awareness within AACG for the need to do community consultation
in order to ensure ownership and sustainability of the investments.
*  The capacity of the EDPO, the implementing agency, needs to be strengthened and its
institutional structure needs to be reorganized to be more efficient in delivering these programs.
*  Funds flow mechanisms and procurement processes need to be streamlined and shortened.
*  The Operational Manual produced under the project has proved to be a valuable tool in
designing and implementing future programs.
*  Woredas to be involved in actual execution of the program whereas EDPO will do the design
and supervision.
(iv) Solid Waste Management
*  The equipment and technical assistance inputs have helped considerably in improving the
functioning of the solid waste management division within the Health Bureau of the city
government.
*  Because of the project inputs it has been recognized that the institutional arrangements for solid
waste management has to be reorganized, a process which has already started.
(v) Street Maintenance
* Both equipment and materials provided under the project have been utilized fully by the
AARA. As a result the main roads in the city are now being better maintained as opposed to
three years ago. The inputs through the project essentially helped AARA to implement a
critical mass of its work prograrm until about a year ago.
64



* Contractor capacity to do asphalt concrete is a problem and most roads have been done using
the penetration method. However, these have deteriorated quickly because of the high traffic
volume on the roads.
V.  Key Observations of the Mission
16. Overall, the project appears to have achieved its objective of accomplishing the intended
physical targets. Implementation experience of the project has helped raise the level of
awareness amongst those involved in its execution in terms of the complexity of issues involved
in planning, design and implementation of basic infrastructure improvement programs. The
project has also served to build capacity, albeit in a limited sense, in segments of the professional
staff in those bureaus and departments in the AACG which were involved in project activities.
17. However, the project has not been able to achieve one of the key objectives of institutional
development and broader capacity building. In particular, the mission notes the following:
(i) The project objectives and the development imperatives did not get fully incorporated into the
mainstream policies and programs of AACG. In a sense the project worked as an enclave
operation without having many of the benefits accrue to AACG as a whole.
(ii) The project was unable to significantly influence fundamental policy reforms, program
formulation, prioritization of investments and related financial management and implementation
issues within AACG as an institution.
(iii) While the AACG should remain responsible for the provision of basic public services, it is
not necessary that it has to "deliver" these services by itself. Alternative service delivery
mechanisms including increased involvement of the private sector, communities, NGOs, etc.
should be explored.
(iv) It is not self evident that the Bank has a comparative advantage in financing and supervising
small individual sub-projects. Given the high transaction costs of such an approach, the Bank
should concentrate on assisting the client in building its capacity to effectively and efficiently
manage the project implementation process. Experience indicates that the Bank should be less
involved in "managing" the implementation process and be more of a "financier" and a "catalyst"
to support building up the client's management capacity.
VI. Plan for Future Operations of the Project
18. Attachment 3 is a plan for future operations of the major components financed under the
project. This plan was developed and agreed to between the mission and the PIO and represents
what is considered to be essential to ensure sustainability of the investments. However, a firm
commitment from the AACG to undertake the activities proposed under the plan is still to be
received.
65



19. Given that most of the investments under the major project components are the direct
responsibility of various bureaus and departments of the AACG, it would be necessary for them
to receive explicit budgetary allocations as indicated in the plan. Consequently, whether or how
much funds are actually made available for operations and maintenance would depend upon the
overall financial resources of the AACG and their applications.
VII. Schedule of Preparation of ICR
18. The mission held discussions with the PIO and its consultants on the ongoing analytical
work required to prepare the Government's contribution to the ICR. It was agreed that the PIO
will finalize and submit its contribution to the ICR by September 30, 1999. IDA will make
available the draft of the full ICR for the Government's comment within three weeks of
receiving the Government's contribution to the ICR, i.e., October 22, 1999. It has been agreed
that the Government will provide its comments on the draft within two weeks, i.e., by November
5, 1999. IDA will make available the final draft ICR for the Government's comments within
two weeks after receiving the Government's comments on the initial draft, i.e., by November 19,
1999.
Gautam Sengupta
Team Leader, SAAP/MTDP/DSP
The World Bank
66



Key Persons Met:
H.E. Ato Girma Birru, Minister, MEDAC
H.E. Ato Haile Assegidie, Minister, MWUD
Ato Aschalew Aberra, General Manager, PIO
Ato Dereje Ayalew, Project Engineer, AAWSA
W/o Tseganesh Melese, IDA Unit Head, CBB
Ato Gutema Bulcha, General Manager, UDSS/MWUD
Ato Ismael Ibrahim, General Manager, AARA
Ato Mehari Bekele, Enviromnental Health Department Head, AACG Health Bureau
Ato Kinde Bizuneh, General Manager, EDPO
Copies to:
H.E. Ato Girma Birru, Minister, MEDAC
HWE. Ato Haile Assegidie, Minister, MWUD
H.E. Ato Berhanu Tamirat, Vice Minister, MWUD
Ato Tadesse Kebede, General Manager, AAWSA
Ato Aschalew Aberra, General Manager, PIO
W/o Tseganesh Melese, IDA Unit Head, CBB
Ato Gutema Bulcha, General Manager, UDSS/MWUD
Mr. Nigel Roberts, Resident Representative, The World Bank Resident Mission, Ethiopia
Mr. Surit Singh, Principal Operations Officer, The World Bank Resident Mission, Ethiopia
67



Attachment 1
SECOND ADDIS ABABA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR. 2161-ET)
Project Implementation Status as of June 30, 1999
No    Major Project Component/Activities    Unit       Physical Targets andAccomplishment        Cost (in '000 Eth. Birr)
SAR   Restructuring Reallocation  Actual    SAR     Restructuring  Reallocation    Actual
I         Sites and Services
1.1 Community facility                    no.            4            4          10                1200         5456          8320        6160
1.2 Site servicing                    __       _  _        __I
1.2.1 Off.9-sit- and on-site roads wit drains            20            20         20    18.20        2064         1552          3632      3017.6
1.2.2 Electricity supply                   sites           3            3           3       3         224          896          1012       998.4
I.2.3 Up-grading (Asphalting) of off-site   km     _                               4                                            3184       3160
roads
2           Housing Loan                Units       2250         2250        2250    2244        14640        32560         40500      40500
3          StreetMaintenance                                                               _
3.1 Asphalt roads and drains maintenance  km          3.1.7        31.20      34.20    31.20       7680         16880 -      20720    14264.8
3.3 Bitumen                               Ton          560          560        3720    3720          920          920        7114.4     4602.4
4      Kebele Up-grading                                            __-                                                                  _
4.1 Number of kebeles                     No.           11           33          1 1      1 1      4288       26552.8         13144     9771.2
5      Solid Waste Management                                         _ _                          ____
5.1.1 Land fill site improvement           Cont.           I            I           I        l       553.6         396           396       378.4
5.1.2 Access roads with drains              km          0.94         0.95         2.8      2.8       226.4        727.2         2068      2183.2
5.1.3 Truck park with work shop facility   Cont.           0   _        1           1        1      -            1546.4        1546.4       2432
5.3 Solid waste containers                pcs          140         1362        1362    1362    1375              5290         5290        5110
6      Institutional Development
6.1 Municipal equipment                   No.        82              92         III      111       18308        83513       101003       92027
6.2 Consultancy                               _  _                       _    _            _                           _       _
68



No   Major Project Component/Activities   Unit        Physical Targets and Accomplishment     Cost (in '000 Eth. Birr)
SAR   Restructuring Reallocation  Actual   SAR    Restructuring  Reallocation    Actual
6.2.1 Design and supervision
6.2.2 Advisory services and system study   No         1_                                  4        2277       22149         12249       6800
6.2.3 System study
6.3 Training
7        Akaki Water Supply
7.1 Civil work'                       #ofcont.         4            2           2        2      11925         5508         5508       2476
7.2 Vehicle and equipment             # Of Packg.      3            3           3        3        415         1158         1158       2358
7.3 Goods4                            # Of Packg.      2            2           2        2        629       25945         25945       18039
7.4 Consultancy and training '        #Of Packg.       5             5                   5       1244        17118        17118       12332
Total       67969    248167.4       269907.8    226610
1- Civil works include design and supervision contract.
2- The package includes: Test benches, Office equipments, and vehicles
3- The package micludes: Org& Mgmt. St-dy, tariff stidy, MIS system study, Technicians training, and management training.
Th6e package includes suply of pipes and Supply and installation of electromechanical
69



ttachment 2
Schedule of Retention Money to be Released Prior to 31, October, 1999 Against Bank Guarantee for Defects Liability
Project                Contract            Contractor             Contract           Out Standing Retention        Provisional Date  Date of
No                                      Amount                                           of end of defects  actual
liability period   payment of
retention
_____________   %       Amount        IDA Share         .
L Sites and Services       I
1.1 Jimma Road Housing Site                                     .                                    .___ l
a) Asphalt Road Construction at   14/98                                    2,959,632.25   5     147,981.61    118,385.29        June 23, 2000
Jimma Road Housing Site
b) Communal facility construction at   04/97                               5,007,251.74   5     250,362.59    200,290.07        May 18, 2000
Jimma Road Housing Site
c) Drainage structure construction at   08/98                             1,411,566.26   5       70,578.311   56,462.65        June 24, 2000
Jimma Road Housing Site
1.2 Akaki Housing Site
- Communal facility construction at   13/98                               1,404,858.80   5      73,755.09     59,004.07       March 4, 2000
Akaki Housing Site
1.3 Ambo Road Housing Site
a) Asphalt Road Construction at  20/98                                      988,370.00   5      49,418.50     39,534.80          June 2, 2000
Ambo Road Housing Site
b) Drainage structure construction at   09/98                               231,712.83   5      11,585.64      9,268.51         Feb 16, 2000
Ambo Road Housing Construction
c) Communal facility construction  12/98                                  1,253,179.97   5      72,159.67     57,727.73        Nov. 19, 1999
at Ambo Road Housing Site               _                                                                      _
II. Repi Sanitary Land Fill Site
- On site Asphalt road construction and off   18/98                            2,154,259.44   5      107,712.97     86,170.38        June 23, 1999
site Asphalt road maintenance work
Building and pavement work at Woreda  07/98                                   2,773,253.66   5     138,662.68     110,930.15        June 23, 1999
8 Kebele 13 (Truck park)
IIL. Street Maintenance, Second Phase
- Road from Ground Force Garage to Jesus   06/97                               2,415,090.00   5      120,754.50    96,603.60        June 30, 2000
Church
- Road from Diabacco through Bisrate  08/97                                    2,751,336.11    5     137,566.81    110,053.45        Jan. 26, 2000
Gebriel church to Jimma road & road
from Diabacco to Vatican Embassy
IV. Retaining Wall Construction
- Retaining wall construction at Woreda  10/98                                1,384,343,00   5        69,217.15    55,373.72        March 17, 2000
2 Kebele 17
- Retaining wall construction at Woreda  11/98                                 1,453,090.40   5       72,654.52    58,123.62        May 14, 2000
14 Kebele 21
Total Amount                                                    26,187,944.46         1,322,410.05    1,057,928.04
70



Attachment 3
PLAN FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS OF PROJECT CAPITAL INVESTMENTS
1. Housing Sites and Services
Housing: The owners shall assume maintenance costs. The Construction and Business Bank (CBB) will
keep on collecting loan repayment at current interest rate. The total project cost for all housing units in the
three housing sites is Birr 45 million. Maintenance requirement per year is about Birr 500,000. In
addition, major maintenance is required every 10 years amounting 25% of the project cost.
Utilities: Similar to the current experience elsewhere in the city, Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage
Authority (AAWSA) and Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCO) will be the responsible
agencies (as the prime utility companies) in management and operation of water and electric power
supply woks respectively. These institutions shall complete individual connections to each house.
Off-site and on-site-roads and drains: All the housing sites are found in the peripheries where there is
also other construction being carried out. Trucks passing through these roads would damage the already
constructed roads. Promotion of development committees to generate resources is required for further
maintenance and upgrading of on-site roads and drains. Off-site roads shall be maintained by the Addis
Ababa Roads Authority (AARA) together with the community in each of the respective sites. The total
amount required for routine maintenance annually is about Birr 67,000. Major maintenance is required
every 5 years and the amount estimated for this investment is 25% of the project cost which is Birr 2
million.
Communal Facilities. There are two options for these facilities. The market center either would be under
the management of the community development committee or rented by the Addis Ababa City
Government (AACG) Finance Bureau. Schools, kindergartens and health centers either would be under
relevant bureaus of the AACG (Education and Health) or contracted to the private sector. All communal
facilities can in principle generate resources to cover at least maintenance costs. The amount required for
maintenance of these facilities in the three housing sites is Birr 52 thousand. In addition, 25% of the
project cost which is currently Birr 1.3 million is required every ten years.
2. Kebele Upgrading Program
The different types of infrastructure provided under this component require different arrangements. Roads
and drains are beside large local or access roads. These require regular maintenance. Infrastructure
completed earlier is now deteriorating. In the long term, the shift to community management can be an
option if it is preceded by adequate sensitization and promotion. In the short term, however, intervention
by NGOs and the Government in cooperation with the community seems to be a more sensible approach.
Involvement of government agencies might have to be limited to financing and contract administration.
Experience has shown that physical force account involvement is inefficient.
Communal Latrines: The beneficiaries in the project areas are managing communal latrines. Cleaning and
cash contribution to get regular emptying services is handled by the beneficiary households. There are too
many households per latrine, however. This is discouraging proper management of these latrines in
particular cleaning. This overloading is due to lack of space in the area to construct additional latrines.
Further interventions to reduce congestion would be an issue that needs to be considered in these areas.
71



S'olid Waste Hardstandings: Solid vwaste containers are not placed on hardstandings provided under this
component. Some people in the area dump solid waste on the hardstands themselves. Containers need to
be placed in these sites by the Solid 'Waste Management Unit of the Health Bureau.
'ublic Standpipes: Some public sitandpipes are not in operation due to delays in providing water
connections by AAWSA. Kebele Development Committees are managing those standpipes that are
operational. An alternative arrangement would be to consider poor women in the project areas.
Mlaintenance of standpipes would be financed by user fees.
The overall amount required for the maintenance of upgrading projects annually, in the 9 Kebeles (5/22,
6,108, 7/30, 7/31, 7/32, 7/338/23, 8/24, and 8/25) and the two flood control projects, is Birr 71,000. In
addition 25% of the project cost for major maintenance every 10 years is required. This amount currently
is estimated at Birr 1.5 million.
3. Street Maintenance Component
Civil works under this component included maintenance of streets in different areas in the city. The Addis
Ababa Roads Authority (AARA) has; been involved in selection, design and supervision as major streets
which require further maintenance and upgrading is its responsibility. Birr 167,000 and Birr 4.1 million
are required for routine maintenance every year and major maintenance every ten years respectively.
Three beneficiary agencies are involved for street maintenance related procurement of goods. These are
the AARA, Equipment Service Department of the Addis Ababa City Government (AACG) and
Construction Materials Production Enterprise (CMPE). The operation and maintenance responsibility is
under each organization.
According to the information obtained from the Equipment Service Department and findings of technical
assistance interventions some of the tools and machinery purchased are poorly managed by the
Ecluipment Service. The Equipment Service Department has a chronic problem of skilled manpower. It is
unlikely that the Equipment Service will provide efficient maintenance services for the AACG agencies.
The AARA and other agencies in the AACG that have huge machinery overhaul would have to seek other
alternatives. These could be contracting out the service and own maintenance unit.
CMIPE is a profit making agency 'which supplies construction materials for road construction and
maintenance. Most of the machinery purchased are in operation. Maintenance and operating costs
financing are guaranteed by the financial position of the enterprise. However, similar to other public
enterprises in the country other options such as privatizing should be studied for this enterprise.
The total amount required for operation and maintenance of major equipment and vehicles is Birr 4.5
million, excluding loan repayment and overhead costs of administration. This amount is only considering
major machinery and equipment that have been procured under the project. The amount estimated
includes loan repayment, operating and maintenance costs. From operating and maintenance costs, items
included are costs such as fuel and tires (where applicable) consumption, labor requirement and
maintenance.
Two financial sources are identified. These are general revenue for machinery and equipment provided to
the AARA and the enterprises revenue for items provided to the CMPE. User fees shall cover the
finamcial requirement of those items owned by the Equipment Services Department.
4. Solid Waste Management Component
The Solid Waste Component expanded into a more general "Sanitation Component" by including
provision of equipment for cesspool rnanagement to the Health Bureau (for public toilets management)
and AAWSA (for private houses' needs). The Health Bureau, which is responsible for solid waste
management, has been the beneficiary of most of the equipment and civil works under the component.
72



The Solid Waste Management Unit in the Health Bureau has a large fleet of vehicles, substantial other
resources (such as, a truck park constructed under the project, the landfill site), and a large staff. The
volume of operation it is expected to undertake, and the dilemma between operations-regulatory roles of
the Health Bureau call for a change in the institutional arrangement for the Solid Waste Management
Unit, probably forming an independent entity under the AACG. AACG is recently looking at the options
and a decision is expected soon.
The total amount required for civil works annual routine maintenance and major maintenance every ten
years is Birr 60,000 and 1.5 million respectively. Solid waste carriers, containers and landfill plant require
operating costs including fuel and tires, labor and maintenance. The amount required for this purpose, per
year, is Birr 4.5 million, excluding loan repayment and overhead costs.
Financing for future resource requirements of the solid-waste component and public latrine servicing
would come largely from City general revenues, and a small part from fees on institutional entities. The
actions that were expected to be taken to increase cost-recovery has not been taken. Even if the most
feasible financing option is regional budgets, actions to recover as much as possible should be taken soon.
The cesspool emptier service provided by AAWSA is financed by user charges.
5. Akaki Water Supply Component
AAWSA, as a borrower by a subsidiary loan agreement entered with IDA, has been involved actively
since the very beginning. The component has been implemented (and is being implemented) by the
overall coordination of this organization. The operating management is also handled by AAWSA.
According to AAWSA's June 1999 completion report, total operating costs owing to supply of chemicals
and electricity as well as salaries for one year is Birr 1.2 million. User fees charged by AAWSA shall be
the source for all the required resources under this component.
6. Institutional support
Several capacity building activities have been undertaken under the project. These include, technical
assistance, studies and training and procurement of municipal equipment. Procurement of specialized fire
fighting vehicles for the Addis Ababa Fire Brigade is the most considerable one. The operation and
maintenance management of these items shall be under the responsibility of this organization. The
amount estimated for annual operation for specialized vehicles purchased under the project is Birr 0.9
million assuming the equipment would be active for half-an hour every day.
More than 40 automobiles and pick-up trucks worth about Birr 6.7 million were provided under the
Institutional Support component. These would require about Birr 0.7 million for operation and
maintenance. This would be paid for from the budgets of beneficiary agencies.
6 This may not be fire-fighting activity, daily check-up of truck engines, etc. would be included.
73



Attachment 3
Table 1. Vehicles and equipment provided for sanitation-related agencies under Second Addis for which operational resource requirements are calculated
Equipment                                            Unit initial Accessories   Unit total  No.  Total capital Status
price (spares, etc.)  capital cost of equip.  cost as of 31-06-99
Solid waste trucks
Volvo lift-trucks for 8m3 (less price of containers)  349,815.70   58,816.70  408,999.91  28 11,451,997.46 Delivered to Health Bureau in 1994
RENAULT solid waste truck (I5m3)                   592,336.50  197,445.50  789,782.00     10  7,897,820.00
Solid waste trucks-4m3 (plus 28% for local cost)  380,030.46        0.00  380,030.46       5  1,900,152.32 Being shipped to port Djibouti
Cesspool emptier trucks
Cesspool emptier truck (Akaki component)          433,268.51  108,317.13  541,585.63       1   541,585.63 Delivered to Health Bureau (Akaki) in 1994
Cesspool emptier(l15m3)                            623,345.75  207,781.92  831,127.67      3  2,493,383.00 Delivered to Health Bureau 1998/99
IVECO cesspool emptier (plus 10% unpaid)           565,786.40  110,514.20  676,300.60      5  3,381,503.00 Delivered to AAWSA 1998/99
IVECO cesspool emptier (plus 28% local cost & 25%  504,707.20  141,318.02  646,025.22     12  7,752,302.59 Stranded in Port Assab due to war
spares)
Containers
8m3 solid waste containers                          16,448.66       0.00   16,448.66     190  3,125,245.29 Delivered to Health Bureau in 1994
I.lm3 solid waste containers                        3,602.66       0.00    3,602.66    1,200  4,323,197.00 Delivered to Health Bureau 1998/99
Disposal site plant
Compactor                                        1,221,178.85  352,657.00 1,573,835.85    1  1,573,835.85 Delivered to Health Bureau in 1994
Crawler Dozer                                    1,001,800.81  277,726.00 1,279,526.81     1  1,279,526.81 Delivered to Health Bureau in 1994
Weigh bridge                                      288,522.82       0.00  288,522.82       1   288,522.82 Awaiting shipment in port Djibouti
Other
Radio communication equipment                      130,255.00       0.00  130,255.00       1   130,255.00 Delivered to Health Bureau 1998/99
Double-cabin Mitsubishi pick-up trucks             188,422.21       0.00  188,422.21       2   376,844.42 Delivered to Health Bureau 1993 (?1994)
74



Attachment 3
Table 2. Annual resource requirements for solid waste collection trucks provided under Second Addis
Cost Item                                    8m3 lift-truck              Renault waste        truck     4m3 waste         trucks
Unit cost    Total cost     Unit cost     Total cost     Unit cost     Total cost
Capital cost                                350,183.21   9,805,129.84   592,336.50   5,923,365.00    380,030.46   3,800,304.64
Other capital items (e.g. spares, field kits)  58,816.70    1,646,867.62  197,445.50    1,974,455.00       0.00          0.00
Total capital cost                             408,999.91   11,451,997.46  789,782.00   7,897,820.00    380,030.46   1,900,152.32
Loan repayment (4.5%, 20 years)              31,442.34    880,385.41      60,715.40    607,153.95     29,215.28     146,076.38
Annual maintenance cost (@ 5% of capital cost)  20,450.00  572,599.87     39,489.10    394,891.00     19,001.52      95,007.62
Fuel cost                                    14,486.29    405,616.00      14,486.29    144,862.86     14,486.29      72,431.43
Lubricant costs (at 5% of fuel cost)            724.31     20,280.80        724.31       7,243.14        724.31       3,621.57
Tire costs (at 20% of fuel cost)              2,897.26     81,123.20      2,897.26      28,972.57      2,897.26      14,486.29
Labor costs                                   9,125.00    255,500.00       9,125.00     91,250.00      9,125.00      45,625.00
Total direct costs per annum                    70,000.19   1,960,005.28   118,312.35   1,183,123.52     66,324.66     331,623.29
Overhead costs (@10% of direct costs)            7,000.02    196,000.53     11,831.24     118,312.35      6,632.47      33,162.33
Total cost per year                             77,000.21   2,156,005.81   130,143.59   1,301,435.87     72,957.12     364,785.61
ASSUMPTIONS                                     Per week       Per year      Per week      Per year      Per week       Per year
Fuel consumption (km/It. or hr/It. for plant)       4.90                         4.90                         4.90
Number of working days                              5.00         260.00          5.00        260.00           5.00        260.00
Available days (at 87% available time)              4.35         226.20          4.35        226.20           4.35        226.20
Number of trips to disposal site (@ 5, 3 per day)  21.75       1,131.00         21.75       1,131.00         21.75       1,131.00
Distance: disposal to work area (@ 12.5 per trip)  548.75     28,280.00        548.75      28,280.00        548.75      28,280.00
Cost of labor                                      175.00      9,125.00        175.00       9,125.00        175.00       9,125.00
Cost of labor                                      Driver       Loaders        Driver       Loaders         Driver       Loaders
Monthly salary                                    420.00         180.00        420.00        180.00         420.00        180.00
Monthly allowance (@25% of salary)                 105.00         45.00        105.00         45.00         105.00         45.00
Vehicle maintenance cost as % of capital cost                    5.00%                        5.00%                        5.00%
75



Attachment 3
Table 3. Annual resource requirements for cesspool servicing trucks provided under Second Addis
Cost Item                                      I 5m2      emptier       15m2    emptier-A        15m2    emptier-B  8m2 cesspool   emptier -C
cesspool                 cesspool                 cesspool
Unit cost    Total cost    Unit cost    Total cost    Unit cost    Total cost    Unit cost    Total cost
Capital cost                           623,345.75  1,870,037.25   433,268.51   433,268.51   565,786.40  2,828,932.00   504,707.20  6,056,486.40
Other capital items (e.g. spares, field kits)  207,781.92   623,345.75   108,317.13   108,317.13   110,514.20   552,571.00   141,318.02  1,695,816.19
Total capital cost                        831,127.67  2,493,383.00   541,585.63   541,585.63   676,300.60  3,381,503.00   646,025.22  7,752,302.59
Loan repayment (4.5%, 20 years)         63,893.89   191,681.67    41,635.02    41,635.02    51,991.38   259,956.91    49,663.93   595,967.13
Maintenance cost (@ 5% of capital cost)  41,556.38   124,669.15    27,079.28    27,079.28    33,815.03   169,075.15    32,301.26   387,615.13
Fuel cost                                14,631.87    43,895.60    29,222.50    29,222.50    24,355.96   121,779.82    24,355.96   292,271.57
Lubricant costs (at 5% of fuel cost)       731.59     2,194.78     1,461.12    1,461.12     1,217.80    6,088.99     1,217.80    14,613.58
Tire costs (at20% of fuel cost)          2,926.37     8,779.12     5,844.50    5,844.50     4,871.19    24,355.96    4,871.19    58,454.31
Labor costs                              11,862.50    35,587.50    11,862.50    11,862.50    11,862.50    59,312.50    11,862.50   i42,350.00
Total direct costs per annum              123,740.11   371,220.32   105,242.42   105,242.42   116,251.37   581,256.84   112,410.14  1,348,921.73
Overhead costs (@10% of direct costs)      12,374.01    37,122.03    10,524.24    10,524.24    11,625.14    58,125.68    11,241.01   134,892.17
Total cost per year                       136,114.12   408,342.35   115,766.66   115,766.66   127,876.50   639,382.52   123,651.16  1,483,813.90
ASSUMPTIONS                                Per week     Per year    Per week      Per year    Per week     Per year    Per week     Per year
Fuel consumption (km/it. or hr/it. for plant)   3.50                     3.50                     3.50                     3.50
Number of working days                          5.00      260.00         6.00      312.00         5.00       260.00        5.00       260.00
Available days (at 87% available time)          4.35      226.20         5.22      271.44         4.35       226.20        4.35       226.20
Number of trips to disposal site (@5, 3 per day)  13.05   678.60        26.10     1,357.20       21.75     1,131.00       21.75      1,131.00
Distance: disposal to work area (@12.5 per trip)  436.50    20,403.00  815.50    40,748.50      685.00    33,962.50      685.00    33,962.50
Cost of labor                                 227.50    11,862.50      227.50    11,862.50      227.50    11,862.50      227.50    11,862.50
Cost of labor                                 Driver  Loaders (2)      Driver     Loaders       Driver      Loaders       Driver     Loaders
Monthly salary                                420.00      360.00       420.00      360.00       420.00       360.00      420.00       360.00
Monthly allowance (@25% of salary)            105.00       90.00       105.00       90.00       105.00        90.00       105.00       90.00
Vehicle maintenance cost as % of capital cost              5.00%                    5.00%                    5.00%                    5.00%
76



Attachment 3
Table 4. Annual resource requirements for landfill plant & equipment provided under Second Addis
Cost item                                           Crawler        Dozer        Landfill    Compactor
Unit cost    Total cost     Unit cost    Total cost
Capital cost                                 1,001,800.81   1,001,800.81   1,221,178.85   1,221,178.85
Other capital items (e.g. spares, field kits)  277,726.00   277,726.00    352,657.00    352,657.00
Total capital cost                              1,279,526.81   1,279,526.81   1,573,835.85   1,573,835.85
Loan repayment (4.5%, 20 years)                98,365.09     98,365.09     120,990.43    120,990.43
Annual maintenance cost (@ 5% of capital cost)  31,988.17    31,988.17     39,345.90      39,345.90
Fuel cost                                      99,358.35     99,358.35     65,292.63      65,292.63
Lubricant costs (at 5% of fuel cost)            9,935.84      9,935.84      6,529.26       6,529.26
Tire costs (at 20% of fuel cost)                    0.00          0.00      16,323.16     16,323.16
Labor costs                                     17,337.50     17,337.50     11,862.50     11,862.50
Total direct costs per annum                     239,647.44    239,647.44    248,481.38    248,481.38
Overhead costs (@10% of direct costs)             23,964.74     23,964.74     24,848.14     24,848.14
Total cost per year                              263,612.19    263,612.19    273,329.52    273,329.52
ASSUMPTIONS                                       Per week       Per year     Per week       Per year
Fuel consumption (km/lt. or hr/It. for plant)         35.00                       23.00
Number of working days                                 5.00        260.00          5.00        260.00
Available days (at 87% available time)                 4.35        226.20          4.35        226.20
Number of trips to disposal site (@ 5, 3 per day)     35.00      1,131.00         35.00       1,131.00
Distance: disposal to work area (@ 12.5 per trip)     35.00      1,131.00         35.00       1,131.00
Cost of labor                                        332.50     17,337.50        227.50      11,862.50
Cost of labor                                        Driver  Assistants (4)      Driver  Assistants (4)
Monthly salary                                       420.00        720.00        420.00        360.00
Monthly allowance (@25% of salary)                   105.00        180.00        105.00         90.00
Equip & plant maint cost as % of capital cost                      2.50%                       2.50%
77



Attach...eUt 3
Table 5. Annual resource requirements for solid waste containers provided under Second Addis
Cost Item                                      8m3 waste      containers   I. 1 m3 waste  containers
Unit cost    Total cost     Unit cost     Total cost
Capital cost                                 16,448.66   3,125,245.29      3,602.66   4,323,197.00
Other capital items (e.g. spares, field kits)     0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Total capital cost                              16,448.66   3,125,245.29     3,602.66   4,323,197.00
Loan repayment (4.5%, 20 years)               1,264.51    240,256.81        276.96     332,350.72
Annual maintenance cost (@ 2.5% of capital      411.22     78,131.13         90.07     108,079.93
cost)
Fuel cost                                         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Lubricant costs (at 5% of fuel cost)              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Tire costs (at 20% of fuel cost)                  0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Labor costs                                       0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Total direct costs per annum                     1,675.73    318,387.94        367.03     440,430.64
Overhead costs (@10% of direct costs)              167.57     31,838.79         36.70      44,043.06
Total cost per year                              1,843.30    350,226.73        403.73     484,473.71
78



Attachment 3
Table 6. Vehicles and equipment provided to AARA under Second Addis for which operational resource requirements are calculated
Equipment                              Unit initial    Accessories   Unit total    No.       Total capital Status
price   (spares, etc.)    capital cost  of equip.      cost as of 31-06-99
Dump trucks                            433,268.51    108,317.13     541,585.63    8         4,332,685.06 Delivered to UDWB in 1994
Water-tank trucks                      433,268.51    108,317.13     541,585.63     1          541,585.63 Delivered to UDWB in 1994
Air compressor                         215,159.64     83,800.68     298,960.31    4         1,195,841.25 Delivered to UDWB
Asphalt paver                          485,209.09    105,639.94     590,849.02    3         1,772,547.07 Delivered to UDWB
Tire roller                            485,209.09     105,639.94    590,849.02     1          590,849.02 Delivered to UDWB
Front-end/backhoe loader               508,012.38     44,828.09     552,840.47    3         1,658,521.41 Delivered to UDWB
Excavator                              508,012.38     44,828.09     552,840.47     1          552,840.47 Delivered to UDWB
Motor graders                         1,001,800.81   277,726.00    1,279,526.81   2         2,559,053.63 Delivered to UDWB
Vibrator roller compactor              374,638.76     124,879.59    499,518.35    2           999,036.69 Delivered to UDWB
79



Attachment 3
Table 7. Vehicles and equipment provided for road maintenance-related agencies under Second Addis for which operational resource requirements are calculated
Cost item                                Tire    Roller    Loader            Excavator               Motor      Grader    Vibrator    roller
Unit cost Total cost  Unit cost  Total cost  Unit cost Total cost   Unit cost  Total cost   Unit cost Total cost
Capital cost                     485,209.09          508,012.38           508,012.38          1,001,800.81            374,638.76
Other capital items (e.g. spares, field    105,639.94  44,828.09           44,828.09           277,726.00             124,879.59
kits)
Total capital cost                 590,849.02 590,849.02 552,840.47 1,658,521.4 552,840.47 552,840.47 1,279,526.81 2,559,053.6  499,518.35 999,036.69
1                                         3
Loan repayment (4.5%, 20 years)   45,422.19 45,422.19  42,500.24  127,500.73 42,500.24 42,500.24   98,365.09  196,730.18   38,401.04 76,802.09
Maintenance cost (Q 5% of capital cost)  88,627.35 88,627.35  27,6$2.02   82,926.07 27,642.02 27,642.02  127,952.68  255,905.36   74,927.75 149,855.50
Fuel cost                         44,459.61  44,459.61  55,136.25  165,408.75 75,121.02 75,121.02   57,341.70  114,683.40   44,459.61  88,919.22
Lubricant costs (at 5% of fuel cost)  4,445.96  4,445.96   2,756.81    8,270.44  7,512.10  7,512.10    2,867.09    5,734.17    4,445.96  8,891.92
Tire costs (at 20% of fuel cost)       0.00     0.00  13,784.06   41,352.19    0.00      0.00   14,335.43   28,670.85      0.00      0.00
Labor costs                        9,125.00  9,125.00   9,125.00   27,375.00  9,125.00  9,125.00    9,125.00   18,250.00    9,125.00  18,250.00
Total direct costs per annum        192,080.12 192,080.12 150,944.39  452,833.18 161,900.39 161,900.39  309,986.98  619,973.96  171,359.37 342,718.74
Overhead costs (@10% of direct costs)   19,208.01  19,208.01  15,094.44   45,283.32 16,190.04  16,190.04   30,998.70   61,997.40   17,135.94 34,271.87
Total cost per year                211,288.13 211,288.13 166,038.83  498,116.49 178,090.43 178,090.43  340,985.68  681,971.35  188,495.30 376,990.61
ASSUMPTIONS                          Per week  Per year  Per week   Per year Per week  Per year   Per week   Per year   Per week  Per year
Fuel consumption (Birr/hr)                        39.31                48.75              66.42                  50.70                39.31
Number of working days                   5.00    260.00      5.00     260.00     5.00    260.00        5.00     260.00       5.00    260.00
Available days (at 87% available time)   4.35    226.20      4.35     226.20     4.35    226.20        4.35     226.20       4.35    226.20
Number of hours worked (@6 hrs/day)     35.00  1,131.00     35.00    1,131.00   35.00  1,131.00       35.00    1,131.00     35.00   1,131.00
Cost of labor                          175.00  9,125.00    175.00   9,125.00    175.00  9,125.00     175.00    9,125.00    175.00  9,125.00
Cost of labor                        Operator Assistants  Operator  Assistants  Operator Assistants    Operator  Assistants   Operator Assistants
Monthly salary                         420.00    180.00    420.00     180.00    420.00    180.00     420.00     180.00     420.00    180.00
Monthly allowance (@25% of salary)     105.00     45.00    105.00      45.00    105.00    45.00      105.00      45.00      105.00    45.00
Maintenance cost as % of capital cost           15.00%                5.00%               5.00%                 10.00%               15.00%
80



Attachment 3
Table 8. Vehicles and equipment provided for road maintenance-related agencies under Second Addis for which operational resource requirements are calculated
Cost item                               Dump trucks             Water-tank trucks         Air compressor            Asphalt paver
Unit cost   Total cost     Unit cost  Total cost    Unit cost   Total cost   Unit cost   Total cost
Capital cost                           433,268.51                  433,268.51              215,159.64               485,209.09
Other capital items (e.g. spares, field kits)  108,317.13          108,317.13               83,800.68               105,639.94
Total capital cost                        541,585.63 4,332,685.06    541,585.63 541,585.63    298,960.31 1,195,841.25   590,849.02 1,772,547.07
Loan repayment (4.5%, 20 years)         41,635.02  333,080.12       41,635.02  41,635.02    22,982.92   91,931.66    45,422.19   136,266.58
Maintenance cost (@5% of capital cost)  27,079.28  216,634.25       27,079.28  27,079.28    14,948.02   59,792.06    88,627.35  265,882.06
Fuel cost                               99,252.04  794,016.29       82,710.03  82,710.03    75,121.02  300,484.08    71,682.78  215,048.34
Lubricant costs (at 5% of fuel cost)     4,962.60   39,700.81        4,135.50   4,135.50     7,512.10   30,048.41     7,168.28   21,504.83
Tire costs (at 20% of fuel cost)        19,850.41   158,803.26      16,542.01  16,542.01       751.21    3,004.84         0.00        0.00
Labor costs                              9,125.00   73,000.00        9,125.00   9,125.00     9,125.00   36,500.00     9,125.00   27,375.00
Total direct costs per annum              201,904.34 1,615,234.73     181,226.83 181,226.83   130,440.26  521,761.06   222,025.61  666,076.82
Overhead costs (@10% of direct costs)      20,190.43  161,523.47       18,122.68  18,122.68    13,044.03   52,176.11    22,202.56   66,607.68
Total cost per year                       222,094.78 1,776,758.21     199,349.52 199,349.52   143,484.29  573,937.16   244,228.17  732,684.50
ASSUMPTIONS                                Per week    Per year        Per week   Per year     Per week    Per year    Per week    Per year
Fuel consumption (Birr/hr)                                73.13                     73.13                      66.42                    63.38
Number of working days                         5.00      260.00            5.00    260.00           5.00      260.00         5.00      260.00
Available days (at 87% available time)         4.35      226.20            4.35    226.20           4.35      226.20         4.35      226.20
Number of hours worked (@6 hrs/day)           26.10    1,357.20           35.00   1,131.00         35.00    1,131.00        35.00    1,131.00
Cost of labor                                 175.00    9,125.00         175.00   9,125.00        175.00    9,125.00       175.00    9,125.00
Cost of labor                                 Driver    Assistant        Driver  Assistant      Operator   Assistants    Operator   Assistants
Monthly salary                               420.00      180.00          420.00     180.00        420.00      180.00       420.00      180.00
Monthly allowance (@25% of salary)            105.00      45.00          105.00     45.00         105.00       45.00       105.00       45.00
Maintenance cost as % of capital cost                     5.00%                     5.00%                     5.00%                   15.00%
81



Attachment 3
Table 9. Vehicles and equipment provided to Fire Brigade under Second Addis for which operational resource requirements are calculated
Equipment                                 Unit initial    Accessories      Unit total        No.    Total capital Status
price    (spares, etc.)  capital cost    of equip.          cost
Bronto F72 fire-fighting truck           7,739,705.70           0.00    7,739,705.70           1   7,739,705.70 Delivered to Fire Brigade in 1997
Fire-fighting trucks                     1,103,186.40           0.00    1,103,186.40           5    5,515,932.00 Delivered to Fire Brigade in 1997
Ambulance                                 600,000.00            0.00      600,000.00           1      600,000.00 Delivered to Fire Brigade in 1997
82



Attachment 3
Table 10. Vehicles and equipment provided for road maintenance-related agencies under Second Addis for which operational resource requirements are calculated
Cost Item                                         Bronto F72 fire-fighting truck  Rapid fire-       trucks     Ambulance
fighting
Unit cost     Total cost      Unit cost     Total cost      Unit cost      Total cost
Capital cost                                  7,739,705.70                   1,103,186.40                    600,000.00
Other capital items (e.g. spares, field kits)        0.00                          0.00                           0.00
Total capital cost                               7,739,705.70    7,739,705.70    1,103,186.40    5,515,932.00  600,000.00      600,000.00
Loan repayment (4.5%, 20 years)                 594,998.73     594,998.73      84,808.72     424,043.58       46,125.69      46,125.69
Maintenance cost (@ 5% of capital cost)         386,985.29     386,985.29      55,159.32     275,796.60       30,000.00      30,000.00
Fuel cost                                         8,271.00       8,271.00       8,271.00      41,355.02       44,787.60      44,787.60
Lubricant costs (at 5% of fuel cost)               413.55         413.55         413.55        2,067.75        2,239.38       2,239.38
Tire costs (at 20% of fiuel cost)                 1,654.20       1,654.20       1,654.20       8,271.00        4,478.76       4,478.76
Labor costs                                      17,337.50      17,337.50       9,125.00      45,625.00        9,125.00       9,125.00
Total direct costs per annum                     1,009,660.27    1,009,660.27    159,431.79     797,158.95      136,756.43     136,756.43
Overhead costs (@10% of direct costs)              100,966.03     100,966.03      15,943,18      79,715.90       13,675.64      13,675.64
Total cost per year                              1,110,626.30    1,110,626.30    175,374.97     876,874.85     150,432.07      150,432.07
ASSUMPTIONS                                         Per week       Per year       Per week        Per year       Per week        Per year
Fuel consumption (Birr/hr)                                            73.13                          73.13                          39.60
Number of working days                                  5.00         260.00            5.00         260.00           5.00         260.00
Available days (at 87% available time)                  4.35         226.20           4.35          226.20           4.35         226.20
Number of hours worked (@0.5 hrs!day)                   2.18         113.10           2.18          113.10          35.00        1,131.00
Cost of labor                                         332.50       17,337.50         175.00       9,125.00         175.00        9,125.00
Cost of labor                                         Driver   Assistants (4)        Driver       Assistant      Operator       Assistants
Monthly salary                                        420.00         720.00         420.00          180.00         420.00          180.00
Monthly allowance (@25% of salary)                    105.00         180.00          105.00          45.00         105.00          45.00
Maintenance cost as % of capital cost                                 5.00%                         5.00%                          5.00%
83



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Annex 13
Borrower's Contribution to ICR
84



Annex 13. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project
Credit No. 2161-ET
Borrower Perspective of the Project
Evaluation Report
1. INTRODUCTION
The Government of Ethiopia and the World Bank (IDA) signed an agreement (No. 2161-Er on 13
August 1990 to under take the Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project (SAAVDP) in
Addis Ababa.
The Project originally was designed to cover ten areas. These were Sites & Servis, Husing
Cuctik Lo^, Kekie Upgading Homing nprzo Loan, KebeleDedopne Fw7ad, Street Maiane,
Solid Waste Manaxnt, Water Suppi, Municpal Insfrast  and Instizioal Support
Implementing agencies were the Addis Ababa City Government (AACG) (the then Addis Ababa
Admninistrative Region (AAAR)), the Construction and Business Bank (CBB) (the then the Housing
and Savings Bank) and the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority (AAWSA).
In 1996 the project was restructured to allow provisions for macroeconomic and sectoral policy
changes undertaken following the change in the government in Ethiopia.
2. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
2.1. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Both the SAR and the restructured document maintained five major objectives. These are:
* Improving basic infrastructure and environmental conditions in project areas;
* Supporting a core housing development program primarily for lower-income families;
* Promoting opportunities for poor women living in the Kebeles to enhance their incomes;
* Providing assistance to urban service delivety agencies to carry out their activities more
efficiently; and
* Promoting the adoption of sound cost recovery policies and practices.
85



2.1. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
2.2.1. Realism and Importance of Objectives
In the housing sector low cost replicable approach on serviced plots has been adopted. However,
adopting sites and services approach on a larger scale as to make significant contributions towards
solving housing problems is almost unthinkable. Urban services generally lag behind urban growth:
it is estimated that up to 90 percent of the areas in Addis Ababa are not sufficiently serviced.
In the water and sanitation sector, the strategy to achieve the poverty reduction objective is to
support government investment plans in water and sanitation infrastructure including institutional
capacity building. The other strategy adopted, to improve the deteriorating sanitation system in slum
areas, was to change the tenure structure (e.g. sale of government owned houses). Provision of
comprehensive package to upgrade slum areas, improving the capacity of the public agencies
involved in the delivery of sanitation and water services directly contributed to these objectives.
2.2.2. Complexity of the Project
The project had been rendered complex primarily by the fluid political, economic and institutional
enivironment that occurred during its implementation. This required re-definition of its priorities,
delivery mechanisms and groups involved in the project in various capacities.
The project was complex in terms of the large number of institutions and other interest groups
involved as irnplementing, collaborating and beneficiary agencies. This constrained efficient
coordination in each stage in the project life cycle from identification of activities to undertake to
planning for efficient future operations.
The project required procurernent, engineering design/specification, coordination, and
monitoring/evaluation skills than the beneficiaries/implementing agencies could muster. Similarly,
the absorptive capacity of the economy in terms of availability of well-qualified contractors and
design consultants made the project too complex to implement.
2.2.3. Extent of risk in the ProDject
The SAR identified three risk areas items: risk regarding sale of kebele-owned houses in project
areas, increase in water tariffs, and costs of the Akaki Water Supply Component. The first risk,
though not of significant implication to the achievement of project objectives, materialized. The rise
in water tariffs has been implemented though the magnitude was not large enough to result in the
anticipated rise in rates of return. Finally, the rise in the cost of Akaki Water Supply improvement
seems to have been larger than anticipated and truly risked the achievement of expected rates of
cost-recovery.
Art important source of risk that was ignored is the intensification of the civil war. The war led to
change of government and significant changes in the implementation environment, delays in
production of project outputs, and in the level and composition of costs.
86



3. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.1. PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES
3.1.1. Housing Sites and Services
Hosig In the housing component, the physical objectives set out in the SAR/Restructuring have
been achieved, even exceeded when type/quality of housing units is considered. Significant changes,
dominantly improvements in design of structures, occurred due to demands from beneficiaries. The
poverty focus of the housing loans have been lost, pardy due to the rise in construction cost and
interest rates.
(mwuafaities: There is high physical achievement in communal facilities construction due to
further allocation of budget to this activity to construct additional infrastructure in Ambo Road and
Akaki housing sites. The reallocation also included the procurement of furniture to some of these
structures (schools and health centers and posts). Design problems and problems related to capacity
of contractors led to cost-overruns and implementation delays.
Utdiies. Electric power and water supply works in the housing sites have been completed in two
sites (Ambo Road and Akaki sites) and were in progress in Jimma Road housing site. Since Jimma
Road site accounts for the largest proportion of housing developments, the failure to provide
utilities in this site in a timely manner has made the weighted average implementation rating to be
very low.
Roads anddraim There is high physical achievement in these works due to change in design of off-
site roads (from gravel to asphalt) and additional works on on-site drainage. Roads and drains in
Jimma site in particular deteriorated fast due to omissions in the design stage that overlooked
drainage implications of the roads. Decisions to asphalt off-site roads imply rise in proportion of
costs that are not directly recoverable from beneficiaries.
3.1.2. Kebele Upgrading Civil Works
Upgraded Kebeles are far below both the SAR and Restructuring estimates. The overall estimate
ranged between 22 to 36 Kebeles. The project upgraded only 9 Kebeles (40 to 23 percent of the
estimates) and two flood control civil works in two Kebeles.
3.1.3. Kebele Development Fund
The Project implemented 10 income generating projects for Kebeles and one income generating
project for poor women. The implemented projects performance is unsatisfactory. Two of them are
closed and others failed to service the loan as scheduled.
3.1.4. Street Maintenance
Civi Works. The SAR planned to undertake a minimum of 31.70 kilometers of streets. Actual
maintenance was about 25.12 km of streets in 14 places.
Thtazmei of Good.v Procured items such as machinery (for road construction, quarry, and
workshop), workshop tools, asphalt plant, vehicles (trucks), spare parts and materials (asphalt for
road construction) have been handed over to the Addis Ababa Roads Authority (AARA),
Construction Materials Production Enterprise (CMPE), and Equipment Services Department.
87



3.1.5. Solid Waste Management
CGo Works: The projects included in this sector are building and fence work at the landfill site,
asphalt road construction and building and pavement work at truck-park. The building and fence
work is the only project completed. Others are still in progress.
AP7nert of Gocd  solid waste conLtainers, specialized vehicles and machinery and equipment have
been procured. The procurement exceeded the SAR estimate substantially due to additional
procurement made owing to additional budget allocation while restructuring and reallocations made
aft;er.
3.1.6. Municipal Infrastructure-Akaki
Tlle implementation of this component aborted due to the incorporation of the Akaki town to
Addis Ababa. All municipal services are know provided by relevant Bureaus of the AACG.
3.1.7. Water Supply Improvement
Physical achievement in this component is biased towards supply than construction. 3 bore-holes
have been drilled and one bore-hole has been rehabilitated; 2 reservoirs were built and about 16 km
of pipe laying was undertaken.
3.1.8. Institutional Support
AAAR. Technical assistance to different agencies has been provided as indicated in the SAR The
assistances were in relation to Road Construction and maintenance, solid waste management and
.project implementation.
Procurement of vehicles and office equipment exceeded the SAR target due to further additions
during restructuring and reallocations. The most significant is the procurement of specialized fire
fighting vehicles that includes 72 met;er rescue truck that can be used for high rise buildings.
Most studies have not been undertaken. The implementation of the studies part of the component
has been affected by the envisaged Addis Ababa Capacity Building Project. This project has not
been implemented.
AA WSA. All activities under this component have been implemented as envisaged in the SAR. The
major consultancy part of this sub-component was made to facilitate the implementation of the
Akaki Water Supply Component. In addition, water tariff study, water leakage study, organizational
management study and short-termn training were undertaken.
3.2. FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES
The total Project cost was 46.1 million USD and out of which IDA loan was USD 35 million (SDR
27.1 million). The loan amount has been downsized to SDR 25.35 million in 1998. The total cost of
the project included counterpart funding by the government (Borrower) and the beneficiaries. The
Borrower assumed full financing roles in taxes and duties, compensation payments, and employee's
benefits in project management. The Borrower also fnanced part of the local costs. In this regard,
both the Borrower and beneficiaries covered 20 percent of local costs excluding some technical
assistance, training and studies whose cost was covered fully by IDA loan. As of end of June 1999
the disbursement status was about 37 million USD. Out of which 30 million was from IDA and the
remaining 7 million was covered by government and project agencies.
Due to slow implementation in procurement of civil works, goods and services, the performance of
disbursement has been unsatisfactory. Procurement of civil works and services including studies
88



demand more from domestic conditions than procurement of goods. Thus, the domestic absorption
capacity, might be one explanation for low disbursement.
3.3. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
The SAR estimate and the recalculated ERR for four applicable components of the project are
presented as follows. Rates of return in the activities have declined except in the Kebele
Infrastructure Upgrading Component which, regretfully, was implemented in a very small scale. The
fall in rates of return is partly explained by optimistic benefit estimates in the SAR, rise in (mostly
foreign) costs, cost overruns due to design faults, and inclusion of additional activities without due
economic justification.
Component                               SAR            ICR/ recalculated
Sites and Services
Addis Ababa Jimma and Ambo Road)        19.0 percent    11.2 percent
Akaki                                   17.0 percent    6.9 percent
Kebele Upgrading                        14.0 percent    13.2 percent
Street Maintenance                      18.0 percent    9.0 percent
Akaki Water Supply                      9.6 percent    2.9 percent (orless)
3.4. POVERTY REDUCTION
The primaxy objective of the SAAUDP was poverty reduction. Yet, most components of the project
were not directly related to this objective. The project reached the poor directly only through the
Kebele Upgrading Component. However, low physical achievement limited the adequacy of the
project's contribution in poverty reduction. Indirect contributions with respect to poverty alleviation
was made through the implementation of the Akaki Water Supply Component that increased access
to water.
The claim that housing loans in the Sites and Services Component were meant to target low-income
people was unrealistic; it proved to miss the target widely. Housing improvement loans and loans for
income generating activities for poor women which would have contributed more to this goal were
cancelled/terminated.
3.5. ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES
Three components of the Project had direct implication to the environment. These are: the Kebele
Upgrading Component, the Solid Waste Management Component and the Akaki Water Supply
Improvement Component. Substantial contribution is made in upgraded areas although its scale is
too small to have widespread impact.
Significant contributions have been made to the pbysiad capacity to improve supply of environmental
sanitation services. This has been made through the supply of solid waste and cesspool collection
vehicles and containers. Increased and improved access to potable water supply that resulted from
89



SAAUDP's contribution to Akaki 'Water Supply Improvement scheme would also affect sanitation
positively.
3.6. GENDER AND OTHER SOCIAL OBJECTIVES
Tlle SAR indicated that some fund from the Kebele Upgrading Component would be allocated for
income generating projects for poor women. There was no, however, considerable implementation
record in this aspect.
The other area of the project where gender issue was relevant is the slum upgrading activities of the
Kebele Upgrading Component. In this area of the Project's activity, basic sanitation infrastructure
have been provided in poor areas where about half of the households are also women headed. The
positive impact is also expected to come out through induced home based job opportunities that are
primarily women's domain.
Increased access to safe water owing to the implementation of the Akaki Water Supply Component
as well as improved sanitation situation owing to the increased capacity of solid waste collection and
upgraded slum areas would imply considerable contribution to health and other welfare benefits.
Contribution to alleviate housing shortages was made. However, this cannot be regarded
conisiderable. The project provided 2244 houses and the annual need and backlog in the city is
estimated at 15, 000 and 30,000 housing units respectively.
3.7. READJUSTMENT, RESETTLEMENT AND DISLOCATION
The Project aimed to minimize the r eadjustment, resettlement or dislocation costs that would have
been incurred while implementatioin. Two components were relevant in this regard. One is the
Housing Sites and Services Component and the other is the Kebele Upgrading Infrastructure
Development Component. Compensation was paid to all affected families.
3.8. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Addis Ababa Roads Authority (AARA), at the moment, has an annual maintenance capacity of
Birr 30 to 50 million. In fact, not all this is attributed to the assistance made by SAAUDP. The solid
waste collection capacity has also been increased from 50 to 65 percent. However, most of the
institutional development efforts were intervened by procurement of goods. Complementary
activities (technical assistance, studies and training) were limited.
3.9. PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
The Project included technical assistance and studies to improve the management capacity of the
public agencies involved in urban service delivery in Addis Ababa. Examples are, technical assistance
provided to Road Construction and Maintenance Department which were later transferred to the
Addis Ababa Roads Authority, and to Addis Ababa Health Bureau in conjunction with solid waste
management. In addition, water tariff and water leakage studies have been undertaken by other
agencies to improve the management and financial capacity of AAWSA. The water tariff study have
become the base for another similar study in another AAWSA's project.
90



3.10. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
The restructuring included private sector development as one major objective. The project created
opportunities for private sector development in the country. All the contracts except part of the civil
works component have been implemented together with the private contractors. The SAAUDP also
involved considerable procurement of goods. All goods in all the components were supplied by
private suppliers under several contracts. It should be noted that the SAAUDP's private sector
development in this regard is limited due to the fact that most of them were supplied from abroad.
4. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
4.1. FACTORS OUTSIDE GOVERNMENT CONTROL
In general, pefomxe of contracaos and wppliers was unsatisfactory and resulted in implementation
delays. Most of the contractors delivered goods and services behind the agreed schedule.
12 cesspool emptier trucks procured by an ICB contract are stranded in Port Assab due to the
current EFtio-Eritrn cnac. The process of shifting delivery orders from Port Assab to Port
Djibouti also contributed to delays in procurement.
4.2. FACTORS WITHIN THE CONTROL OF THE GOVERNMENT
The major macroeconomic events that affected SAAUDP are devaluation, liberalization of domestic
and foreign trade, the attempt to reduce the role of the government in ecoilomic activity and the
drive towards privatization. SAAUDP was affected by these in many ways. First, it led to a rise im
the Birr-equivalent of the loan and IDA funds available for local expenditures on goods and
services. Second, it increased the tariffs on imports of vehicles, equipment and materials and the
matching fund required from the Borrower to finance these. Thirdly, it changed the asset position of
the Borrower by raising the Birr-equivalent of its debt. This affects the affordability of the project
and Borrower's ability to service its loans. The whole process led to the restructuring process which
in turn caused delay in implementation.
4.3. FACTORS WITHIN THE CONTROL OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
4.3.1. Staffing
The major implementing agency in the SAAUJDP is the AACG. The AACG's Project
Implementation Office (PIO) had manpower problems. Rapid turnover of (professional) staff meant
that the stock of experienced staff at any one time had been very low. In 1998/99, there was no
senior (professional) staff who worked since the Restructuring of 1996, let alone since project start-
up.
The AACG also, in later years, added the Environmental Development Project Office (EDPO) to
execute upgrading civil works replacing commercial contractors. Implementation speed of Kebele
Upgrading undertaken using EDPO was unsatisfactory. This was by large reflected by the EDPO's
capacity. This led to downsizing of the budget allocated for the Kebele Upgrading component.
4.3.2. Adequacy of Monitoring and Evaluation
All the implementing agencies focused on the monitoring aspect and evaluations are rarely
undertaken. Moreover, reports submitted to different authorities never attracted responses. One
91



reason for this was failure to keep the technical and advisory committees regular meeting. The other
is frequent changes of authorities in the AACG to whom PIO used to report regularly.
4.3.3. Fungibility of Resources
Resources such as vehicles acquired to facilitate project implementation were used for other
purposes by the AACG.
4.3.4. Beneficiary participation.
Beneficiary organizations, such as bureaus and project offices of the AACG, were slow to prepare
technical specifications for procurement or in evaluation technical specifications forwarded to them.
The performance of members of housing cooperatives was also poor.
5.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Housing sites and services produced a lower economic rate of return compared to the SAR. Roads
and drains in peripheral locations, -vhere sites and services projects are located, are vulnerable due
further housing developments in the area. Heavy trucks and construction machinery, for instance,
would darmage the already provided off-site and on-site roads.
The establishment of AARA, introduction of road fund and the conducive policy environment for
private civil work contractors would imply that positive developments are in place for road
construction and maintenance in the city.
Solid waste and upgrading infrastructures provided by the project are comprehensive in the sense of
integration of activities implying sustainability.
Lack of complimentary inputs such as well motivated and capable labor force, efficient & speedy
maintenance capacity, and appropriate institutional framework would substantially affect negatively
the sustainable operations of vehicle and equipment provided by the project.
AAWSA is the leading institution in water supply in Addis Ababa and its surroundings. Experience
gained in implementing similar completed and on-going projects would add to the technical
capabilities of the Authority. Tariff revisions in favor of cost recovery pricing would develop the
resource position of the Authority.
6. BANK PERFORMANCE
Since 1987 the mission visited the imnplementing agency and the Borrower 17 times. Out of these
two were for identification in 1987; two for appraisal in 1989 and 1990, one specialized program in
1996; eleven were for implementation review during 1993-1999 and one for implementation
completion report in 1999. The performance was intensive in 1997 and 1998. The Bank's
supervision missions were effective in assessing project implementation status as well as identifying
required actions. However, Borrower's slow response constrained the effectiveness. The Banks
perFormance were poor in areas of project appraisal as explained by large deviations from SAR
despite the Banks contribution to use earlier studies undertaken during the implementation of the
First Urban Development Project (Credit # 1366-ET). The Bank also took much time to approve
and finalize the restructuring process.
92



7. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The Borrower was able to provide the required matching resources throughout the implementation
period. However, poor performance in other aspects affected the overall implementation process.
One of the most serious was the failure of the government to comply with the recommendations of
the studies undertaken.
8. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Physical achievement in civil works have been constrained by design problems (some street
maintenance works and roads and drains in the sites and services scheme) and affected the
infrastructure provided. Circulation in the housing sites is difficult due to the narrowness of the
roads. This also affected utility line (both water and electricity) operation.
Upgrading of slum areas improved environmental sanitation in the area. However, this cannot be
regarded as adequate when compared to the upgrading requirement in the city.
Kebele Development Fund projects and the poor women income generating project failed to
achieve the envisaged outcome. This justifies the appropriateness of the discontinuation of this
component during restructuring.
Streets maintained in different parts of the city are being intensively used. However, these streets are
less likely to serve for many years due to the increased pressure from high traffic.
Solid waste carriers use the landfill site access roads intensively. Fence and building works are poorly
undertaken. The site is still accessed by human and animal scavengers.
Goods procured by the project increased solid waste collection capacity. Similarly, the road
construction and maintenance capacity of the AARA has been increased.
The physical components of the Akaki Water Supply Component, have been cornpleted and the
related system has been put in operation. This has improved the water supply situation in Akaki
town. Full utilization of the investment made still calls for the successful completion of fiurther civil
works included in Phase-II.
9. FUTURE OPERATION
9.1. HOUSING SITES AND SERVICES COMPONENT
H asing owners shall assume maintenance costs. Maintenance requirement for all houses per year is
about half million Birr. In addition, major maintenance is required every 10 years amounting 25% of
the project cost.
Utiliies: Similar to the current experience elsewhere in the city, Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage
Authority (AAWSA) and Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCO) will be responsible
agencies (as the prime utility companies) in management and operation of water and electric power
supply works respectively. These institutions shall complete individual connections to each house.
Cfsite and on-site-oads and draiw  All the housing sites are found in the peripheries where there are
also other constructions carried out. Trucks passing through these roads would damage the already
constructed roads. Promotion of development committees to generate resources is required to
further maintenance and upgrading of on-site roads and drains. Off-site roads shall be maintained by
AARA together with the community in each respective site. The total amount of Birr required to
93



routine maintenance annually is about 67 thousand. Major maintenance is required every 5 years and
the amount estimated for this investment is 25% of the project cost or Birr 2 million.
Ccn         Facilities. There are two options for these facilities. The market center either would be
under the management of the community development committee or rented by AACG Finance
Bureau. Schools, kindergartens and health centers either would be under relevant bureaus of the
AACG (Education and Health) or contracted to the private sector. All communal facilities can in
principle generate resources to cover at least maintenance costs. The amount required for
maintenance of these facilities in the three housing sites is Birr 52 thousand. In addition, 25% of the
project cost is required every ten years. This arnount is currently Birr 1.3 million.
9.2. KEBELE UPGRADING COMPONENT
Different infrastructure provided under this component require different arrangement. Roads and
drains are by large local or access roads. These require regular maintenance. Activities completed
earlier are now deteriorating. In the long term, the shift to community management can be an option
if it is preceded by adequate sensitization and promotion. In the short term, however, intervention
by NGOs and Government in cooperation with the community seems to be a more sensible
approach. Involvement of governmLent agencies might have to be limited to financing and contract
administration. Experience has shovvn that physical force account involvement is inefficient.
The beneficiaries in the project areas are managing communal latrines. Cleaning and money
contribution to get regular emptying service is handled by the beneficiary households. There are too
m;my households per latrine, however. This is discouraging proper management of these latrines
particularly cleaning. This overloading is due to lack of space in the area to construct additional
latrine. Further intervention to reduce congestion would be an issue that needs to be considered in
these areas.
Solid waste containers need to be placed in hardstanding sites by Solid Waste Management Unit of
the Health Bureau. Some public standpipes are not in operation due to water connection delay the
responsibility of which belongs to AAWSA. In those who already started operation, the
management is given to the Kebele Development Committee. Alternative arrangement would
consider poor women in the project areas. Maintenance of standpipes would be financed by user
fees.
The overall amount required for amnual maintenance of upgrading projects is Birr 71 thousand. In
addition, 25% of the project cost for major maintenance every 10 years is required. This amount
currently is estimated at Birr 1.5 million.
9.3. STREET MAINTENANCE COMPONENT
CiNil works under this component are maintained streets in different places of the city. The AARA
has been involved in selection, design and supervision. As major streets further maintenance and
upgrading is the responsibility of the Authority. Birr 167 thousand and Birr 4.1 million are required
for routine maintenance every year and for major maintenance every ten years respectively.
Three beneficiary agencies are involved for street maintenance related procurement of goods. These
are the AARA, Equipment Service Department of the AACG and CMPE. The operation and
maintenance responsibility is under each organization.
94



Some of the tools and machinery purchased are poorly managed by the Equipment Service. The
Department has a chronic problem of skilled manpower. It is unlikely that the Equipment Service
will provide efficient maintenance services for the AACG agencies. The AARA and other agencies
in the AACG that have huge machinery overhaul shall seek for other alternatives. These could be
contracting out the service and own maintenance unit.
CMPE is by large profit making agency besides to supplying construction materials for road
construction and maintenance. Most of the machinery purchased are in operation. Maintenance and
operating costs financing are guaranteed by the financial position of the enterprise. However, similar
to other public enterprises in the country other options such as privatizing should be studied for this
enterprise.
The total amount of money required for operation and maintenance of major equipment and
vehicles is Birr 4.5 million, excluding loan repayment and overhead costs of administration. This
amount is only considering major machinery and equipment that have been procured by the
SAAUDP.
Two financial sources are identified. These are general revenue for machinery and equipment
provided to the AARA and the enterprise's revenue for items provided to the CMPE. User fee shall
cover the financial requirement of those items owned by the Equipment Services Department.
9.4. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
The Solid Waste Component expanded into a more general "Sanitation Component" by including
provision of equipment for cesspool management to Health Bureau (for public toilets management)
and AAWSA (for private houses' needs). The Health Bureau, responsible for solid waste
management, has received the largest part of equipment and civil works under the component. The
Solid Waste Management Unit has a large fleet of vehicles, substantial other resources (such as, a
truck park constructed under SAAUDP, the landfill site), and a large staff. The volume of operation
it is expected to undertake, and the dilemma between operations-regulatory roles of the Health
Bureau call for a change in the institutional arrangement for Solid Waste Management Unit,
probably forming an independent entity under the AACG. AACG is recently looking at the options
and a decision is expected soon.
The total amount required for civil works annual routine maintenance and major maintenance every
ten years is Birr 60 thousand and 1.5 million respectively. Solid waste carriers, containers and landfill
plant require operating costs including fuel and tire, labor and maintenance. The amount required
for this purpose, per year, is Birr 4.5 million, excluding loan repayment and overhead costs.
Financing for future resource requirements of the solid-waste part and public latrine servicing would
come largely from City general revenues, and a small part from fees on institutional entities. The
cesspool emptier service provided by AAWSA shall be financed by user charges.
9.5. AKAKI WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
The operating management is handled by AAWSA. Total operating costs owing to supply of
chemicals and electricity as well as salaries for one year is Birr 1.2 million. User fees charged by
AAWSA shall be the source for all the required resources under this component.
95



9.6. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT COMPONENT
Several capacity building activities have been undertaken by the SAAUIDP. Procurement of
specialized fire fighting vehicles to Addis Ababa Fire Brigade is the most considerable one. The
operation and maintenance management of these items shall be under the responsibility of this
organization. The amount estimatecd for annual operation including daily check up of truck engines
of specialized vehicles purchased under the SAAUJDP is Birr 0.9 million. In addition, more than 40
automobiles and pick-up trucks worth in the order of 6.7 million Birr were provided to various
agencies under the Institutional Support component. These would require about Birr 0.7 million for
operation and maintenance. This would be paid for from the budgets of beneficiary agencies.
10. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Organization of an implementing agency: appropriate organizational structure is a key issue with
huge influence on the success of any project, specially integrated, inter-sectoral projects that involve
a large number of agencies and activities. From the specific circumstances under which SAAUDP
was implemented, many organizational issues have been raised. The most important ones that relate
to authority, division of responsibility, and accountability that need to be addressed are:
Authority: the agency that coorcinates and implements the project (for instance as PIO in
SAAUDP) need to be given required authority to enforce the requirements set out in the project,
ancl mechanisms through which other agencies can be made accountable to it in the perforrmance of
activities related to the project. This could be done by making it, for instance, a direct extension of
the AACG Executive Council or Economy Sector of the Executive Council. The minimum
requirement is to clearly make the project implementing and coordinating agency above the Bureaus
that perform everyday policy,-making/service-giving functions.
Accountability: there is a need to make other agencies responsible for delays and cost over-runs in
activities under their purview. Since there is a tendency to give project activities lower priorities
(compared to their 'main' functions), there should be a mechanism to force agencies to incorporate
these activities as one of their priority areas.
Collaborating agencies: there is a need to make assistance to relevant agencies strongly conditional
on execution of their responsibilities under the project.
Conitract Administration: Separate contracts for civil engineering works and supply of goods
(eqLipment and pipes) affected coordination negatively. Moreover, disintegrating contracts decreases
the total value in each contract which is less likely to attract large contractors.
Cornponent/Activity Phasing: A project component with a number of activities shall be piloted
or phased. Factors that were not identified well at the time of project formulation would come out
important while implementation. This helps to improve implementation (e.g. speed) and delivery
(supervision, cost-effectiveness and quality).
Operations: Operational plan needs to be prepared and agreed with concerned agencies before
procurement.
Component Specific Issues
Interest rate subsidies alone are unlikely to acconmodate the poor in sites and service scheme. The
market rate shift in SAAUDP seems appropriate. This also encourages loan repayment rate.
Cormpensation system in upgrading slum areas is effective to secure right-of-way. However, it can be
time consuming to obtain ownership certificate that is often absent in these areas and also
encourages irregular ownership claims.
96



Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project
Credit 2161-ET
Map
97






IBED 30666
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ETH  IOPIA
~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~SECOND ADDIS ABABA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
2                                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STREET MAINTENANC
T. D-i.                             SAHLE SELASSIE BRIDGE          S MEDHANEALEM SCHOOL TO
TO SEMEN HOTEL                   KlIFE ChILDREN CENTRE
A:                         ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~NO'RTH MUNICIPAUITY By    JANMEDA TO, MINLIK
LAZARIST MISS1ION                HOSPITAL
FBENCH EMBASSY TO            10 ETH~ COPFFE BOABD JUNCTION
JESUS CHURCH                     TO SEMINARY COLLEGE
t.                                                                                                                          3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ENKULAL FABRICA TO  11FRENCH EMBASSY TO BELLA
RUFAEL CHURCH
DIL PAINS FACTORY BY THE      12 GROUND FORCE GARAGE
ETA. COFFEE BOARD TO DIABACO     TO JESUS CHURCH
5,                                          S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~~OLD ULGRIAEBAS  12 BRITISH EMBASSY TO
S-B deMil wF Ih       71'                                                                                                                                                        TO DEBRE SEIT ROAD                TRAFF C OFFICE
C  ,  -                                                            U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BELAIRHOTELTO  14 DIBACO THROUGH BISRATE GERRIEL
-- - - - - - - - - - - -                                                                                                                                                     6TH PO LICE BTATION               CHURCH TO JIMMA ROAD
28                                       / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THE THREE KECH-ENE  14AA DIBACO TO VATICAN EMBASSY
IX  -  -    ~ ~ ~~~--  '~~~            --~~~-----~~~                  'N                                        *,~~~~ _ ~KEBELE UPGRADING
SB WEREDA 6, KEHELY, SB     ST WEREDA 7, K EBl I0
~~~~~~-2                  J                                                               % ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22WUREDA 5,KEBEE 22  I1 WEREDA 7, KBE'LE 21
22 WEREDA B, LEBELE 22  22 WREDA 7, EBLE 2
24  2                                                                                                                                   21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T W'EREDA B KEBEE EF26  2WEDA 7, RUBE ST
/                  ~~~~~~~25 WEREDA H, IKEBELE 25  FLOOD PROTECTION
R. d                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KEBELE DEVELOPMENT FUND
)                                                                                                                                                       IL WEREDA 5, KEBELE IA       26 WERESA 15, REBELE 26~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%T    WREA ,KEEL 1  2   WRDA1 , EB~E2
23  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                          5,,     ~158 WEREDAI17, KEBELE1R                                                                                    22 WEREDA18,KEBE E 35
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*21 WEREDA 17, KEBELE 21
-                    V                                          U  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
1 7                                                                              WATER SUPPLY PROJECT             SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
T. ji... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UPROJECT AREA                                                                                                                          LANDFILL
/                       -   ~~~~~~~WATER PIPELINE             TRACE PARK
0 RESERVOIRS
GWA3 R--ENiE               -                                                                                                                       AUDI ARABIA
SUSAN       N ~~~~~~~MA
MAIN ROADS                         *                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AL
OTHER ROADS                                                                                                             26' 'I                                                                                                                S~
----WERRGA BOUNDARIES                                                        27                                                                                                                        BET                               A,d~\1
28  WEREEDA NUMBERS                                                        ,--GA2Rero                                                                                                                CNS,,,                        EHFA
-  ---   ADSDIS ABARAADMINISTRATIVE                                              ICIENAT.'
REGION BOUNDARY                                               BAFRE./
~~~,  Akoki  \                                                    N                                          /    KENYA    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_   SOM ALIA
Thil   BORp pd-dby IHOMOp DOBiR~BUiIOTh. OIYO4RN 8-                                                                                                                                                             DE.BR',IDCEA
T.5-66oflE.R, .oI-,doo,,,ooB  d -oy.lH-f-f- ,F6FA-                                                                                     GWA,NR. -J                                                                  O
_opM_  ,          ~boHAR.                                                                                                                                                                                                L        TANZANIA



