Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2161 ET
          (Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               and
                     HOUSING AND SAVINGS BANK
                       Dated August 13, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2161 ET
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and HOUSING AND SAVINGS
BANK (HSB).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty-seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 27,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that HSB agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and HSB, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
Page  2
available to HSB on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS HSB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. HSB declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Parts A.2 and B.2 of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, and banking  practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
      Section 2.03. HSB shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of this Agreement and Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Project.
      Section 2.04. HSB shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, HSB shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) HSB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   HSB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by HSB of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.06. In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, HSB
shall:
      (a)   extend sub-loans to individuals, cooperatives and self
help groups for construction of houses in accordance with the
eligibility criteria and terms and conditions of sub-loans set out
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (b)   not later than December 31, 1990, enter into an
agreement with AAAR employing AAARPIO to manage HSB's bulk purchase
of locally unavailable building materials.
Page  3
      Section 2.07. In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, HSB
shall extend sub-loans to homeowners in the Kebeles to finance house
improvements in accordance with the eligibility criteria and terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of HSB
      Section 3.01. HSB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
banking practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. HSB shall take out and maintain  with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risk and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) HSB shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations, resources and expenditures of HSB in respect of
Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Project (Project Accounts).
      (b)   HSB shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) including the
                  Project Accounts and the Special Account for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year (A) certified copies of
                  its financial statements and the Project Accounts
                  for such year as so audited, and (B) the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Association shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, HSB shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
            bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
            expenditures are retained until at least one year after
            the Association has received the audit report for the
            fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
            Account was made;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
Page  4
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. In order to improve its financial condition and
reduce the level of bad debts, HSB shall continue to implement an
action program, acceptable to the Association, with the objective of
reducing the level of arrears on its non-nationalized mortgage
portfolio to less than 3% of the related outstanding mortgage
balances.
      Section 4.03. HSB shall continue to: (a) carry out annual
reviews of the quality of its mortgage portfolio; and (b) set aside
regular annual provisions for bad debts.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of HSB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
                  ment shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
            (ii)  the date 26 years after the date of this Agree-
                  ment.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify HSB of
this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  5
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For HSB:
            Housing and Savings Bank
            P.O. Box 3480
            Addis Ababa
            Ethiopia
            Cable address:
                  HOUSE BANK
                  Addis Ababa
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of HSB, may be taken or executed by the General
Manager of HSB or such other person or persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing, and HSB shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                  HOUSING AND SAVINGS BANK
                  By /s/ Girma Amare
                                         Authorized Representative
                           SCHEDULE 1
           Eligibiilty Criteria, Terms and Conditions of
          Sub-Loans for House Construction (Section 2.06)
Terms and Conditions
1.    HSB shall extend sub-loans to cooperatives and individuals for
residential houses at an initial interest rate of 4.5% per annum for
cooperatives and 7% per annum for individuals; all such sub-loans to
be repaid over 25 years with a grace period of one year on repayment
of principal. The interest rate may be varied by the Borrower from
time to time.
Beneficiary Selection Criteria for:
Page  6
A.    Residential Houses in Addis Ababa
1.    Beneficiaries shall:
      (a)   be age 18 or over;
      (b)   show willingness to participate in a self-help program,
preferably in a cooperative arrangement;
      (c)   have a reasonably regular formal household monthly
income (either salaried or licensed self-employed) of-
      -     up to Birr 165 or about 50th percentile of the 1988
            urban income distribution for about 20% of the units
            (cores),
      -     up to Birr 220 or about 70th percentile of the 1988
            urban income distribution for about 50% of units (cores
            + 1 room), and
      -     about Birr 300 for about 30% of the units (cores + 3
            rooms);
      (d)   not own any other residential property; and
      (e)   meet all other HSB standard requirements (e.g.,
insurance, mortgage redemption, etc.);
2.    The housing loan repayment plus plot development charge and
land lease charge will not exceed 25% of monthly household income;
B.    Residential Houses in Akaki
1.    Beneficiaries shall:
      (a)   be age 18 or over;
      (b)   be willing to participate in a self-help program,
preferably in a cooperative arrangement;
      (c)   have a reasonably regular formal household monthly
income (either salaried or licensed self-employed) of-
      -     up to Birr 195 or about 50th percentile of the 1988
            urban income distribution for about 20% of the units
            (cores),
      -     up to Birr 235 or about 70th percentile of the 1988
            urban income distribution for about 50% of units (cores
            + 1 room), and
      -     about Birr 305 for about 30% of the units (cores + 3
            rooms);
      (d)   not own any other residential property; and
      (e)   meet all other HSB standard requirements (e.g.,
insurance, mortgage redemption, etc.).
2.    The housing loan repayment plus plot development charge and
land lease charge will not exceed 25% of monthly household income.
