Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2161 ET
          (Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project)
                              between
             PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 13, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2161 ET
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1990, between PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   Parts A.1, B.1, B.3, C, D, E and G.1 of the Project will
be carried out by the Addis Ababa Administrative Region (the AAAR),
Parts F and G.2 of the Project will be carried out by the Addis
Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority (the AWSA), and Parts A.2 and B.2
of the Project will be carried out by the Housing and Savings Bank
(the HSB), in each case with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to AAAR, AWSA
and HSB the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreements of even date herewith between the Association and AAAR,
AWSA and HSB, respectively;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "AAAR" means the Addis Ababa Administrative Region
established pursuant to Proclamation Number 14 of 1980 of the
Borrower;
      (b)   "AAAR Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AAAR of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the AAAR Project Agreement;
      (c)   "AAAR Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02(b)(i) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "AAAR Sub-loan" means any loan to be made by AAAR to
Kebeles and women pursuant to Section 4.04 of the AAAR Project
Agreement;
      (e)   "AAAR Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and AAAR pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the AAAR Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
      (f)   "AWSA" means the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage
Authority established pursuant to Order Number 68 of 1971 of the
Borrower;
      (g)   "AWSA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AWSA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the AWSA Project Agreement;
      (h)   "AWSA Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02(b)(ii) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "AWSA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and AWSA pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the AWSA Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
      (j)   "Birr" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (k)   "HSB" means the Housing and Savings Bank, established
pursuant to Proclamation Number 60 of 1975 of the Borrower;
      (l)   "HSB Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and HSB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the HSB Project Agreement;
Page  3
      (m)   "HSB Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02(b)(iii) of this Agreement;
      (n)   "HSB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and HSB pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the HSB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
      (o)   "Sub-loan" means any loan to be made by HSB or AAAR
pursuant to Section 2.06 of the HSB Project Agreement and Section
4.04 of the AAAR Project Agreement;
      (p)   "Kebele" means the urban dwellers' association formed
pursuant to Proclamation Number 206 of 1981 of the Borrower;
      (q)   "Kebele Development Fund" means the fund established by
AAAR for the purpose of making sub-loans to members of the Kebeles;
      (r)   "MUDH" means the Ministry of Urban Development and
Housing of the Borrower;
      (s)   "Project Agreement(s)" means the AAAR Project Agreement,
the AWSA Project Agreement and the HSB Project Agreement, or any
such agreement individually;
      (t)   "Project Area" means the portion of the Addis Ababa
Administrative Region in which the Project will be carried out;
      (u)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 26, 1989, and
November 27, 1989, between the Borrower and the Association;
      (v)   "AAARPIO" means the Addis Ababa Administrative Region
Project Implementation Office;
      (w)   "Special Account(s)" means, the AAAR Special Account,
the AWSA Special Account and the HSB Special Account, or any such
account individually; and
      (x)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement(s)" means the AAAR Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the AWSA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the HSB
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any such agreement individually.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 27,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars the
following special accounts in the National Bank of Ethiopia on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment: (i) a special
account for the purposes of Parts A.1, B.1, B.3, C, D, E and G.1 of
the Project (the AAAR Special Account); (ii) a special account for
the purposes of Parts F and G.2 of the Project (the AWSA Special
Account); and (iii) a special account for the purposes of Parts A.2
and B.2 of the Project (the HSB Special Account). Deposits into, and
Page  4
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing December 15, 2000, and ending June 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15,
2010, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
Page  5
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause
AAAR, AWSA and HSB to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the AAAR Project Agreement, the AWSA Project Agreement and the HSB
Project Agreement all the respective obligations of AAAR, AWSA and
HSB therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AAAR, AWSA and HSB to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of
the Credit equivalent to $20,500,000 to AAAR under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and AAAR, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association which shall provide, inter alia, that such proceeds be
relent at an interest rate of 4.5% per annum, for a term of twenty-
six (26) years, including a grace period of six (6) years on the
repayment of principal. The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange
risk.
      (c)  The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of
the credit equivalent to $5,200,000 to AWSA under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and AWSA, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association which shall provide, inter alia, that such proceeds be
relent at an interest rate of 4.0% per annum, for a term of twenty-
six (26) years, including a grace period of six (6) years on the
repayment of principal. The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange
risk.
      (d)  The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of
the credit equivalent to $9,300,000 to HSB under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and HSB, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association which shall provide, inter alia, that such proceeds be
relent at an interest rate of 1.5% per annum, for a term of twenty-
six (26) years, including a grace period of six (6) years on the
repayment of principal. The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange
risk.
      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision
thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
Page  6
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by AAAR, AWSA
and HSB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the AAAR Project Agreement, AWSA
Project Agreement and HSB Project Agreements, respectively.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1990, establish and thereafter maintain a Project Advisory Committee
whose chairman shall be the Minister of MUDH and whose other members
shall consist of senior officials of MUDH, AAAR, AWSA, HSB and
others as may be required. The said Project Advisory Committee shall
be responsible for resolving operational issues arising during the
implementation of the Project.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all appropriate measures
to ensure that AWSA complies with Section 4.02 of the AWSA Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   AAAR, AWSA or HSB shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the AAAR Project Agreement, the AWSA Project
Agreement or the HSB Project Agreement, respectively.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that AAAR, AWSA or HSB will be able
to perform its obligations under the AAAR Project Agreement, the
AWSA Project Agreement or the HSB Project Agreement, respectively.
      (c)   Proclamations Number 60 of 1975 and Number 14 of 1980,
and Order Number 68 of 1971 of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of AAAR, AWSA or HSB to perform any of its
obligations under the AAAR Project Agreement, the AWSA Project
Agreement or the HSB Project Agreement, respectively.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of AAAR, AWSA, or HSB or for the suspension of their operations.
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the AAAR Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the AWSA Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the HSB Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been executed
by AAAR, AWSA and HSB, respectively, and by the Borrower.
Page  7
      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the AAAR Project Agreement, the AWSA Project
Agreement and the HSB Project Agreement have been duly authorized or
ratified by AAAR, AWSA and HSB, respectively, and are legally
binding upon AAAR, AWSA and HSB, respectively, in accordance with
their terms; and
      (b)   that the AAAR Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the AWSA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the HSB Subsidiary Loan Agreement have
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and by AAAR, AWSA
and HSB, respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and
upon AAAR, AWSA and HSB, respectively, in accordance with their
terms.
      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for foreign economic relations is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
            Office of the State Committee for
              Foreign Economic Relations
            P.O. Box 2428
            Addis Ababa
            Ethiopia
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  OSCFER-ET                  21368
                  Addis Ababa
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Page  8
                  By /s/ Girma Amare
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works:
      (a)   for Part A.1      2,120,000         100% of foreign
            of the Project                      expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures
      (b)   for Part B.1      1,590,000         100% of foreign
            of the Project                      expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures
      (c)   for Parts C.2     2,090,000         100% of foreign
            and C.3 of the                      expenditures and
            Project                             70% of local
                                                expenditures
      (d)   for Part D.2        270,000         100% of foreign
            of the Project                      expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures
      (e)   for Parts E.1         50,000        100% of foreign
            and E.3 of the                      expenditures and
            Project                             70% of local
                                                expenditures
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
      (f)   for Part F        2,780,000         100% of foreign
            of the Project                      expenditures and
                                                55% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)   Goods:
      (a)   Electrical          235,000         100% of foreign
            and Mechanical                      expenditures and
            Equipment for                       55% of local
            Part F of the                       expenditures
            Project
Page  9
      (b)   Building          1,690,000         100% of foreign
            materials                           expenditures
            for Part A.2
            of the Project
      (c)   Vehicles and                        100% of foreign
            equipment                           expenditures
            for:
            (i)   AAAR        5,725,000
            (ii)  AWSA          155,000
      (d)   Materials for       540,000         100% of foreign
            Part C.2 of the                     expenditures
            Project
                          Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)   Consultants'                              100%
      services and
      training for:
      (a)   AAAR              1,200,000
      (b)   AWSA                465,000
(4)   Sub-loans for                             75%
      goods and ser-
      vices for:
      (a)   House             4,225,000
            construc-
            tion
      (b)   Kebele
            Upgrading:
            (i)   House         575,000
                  Improve-
                  ment
            (ii)  Develop-      620,000
                  ment Fund
(5)   Incremental                70,000         10%
      Salaries for
      AAARPIO
                          Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)   Refunding of              225,000         Amount due
      Project Prepara-                          pursuant to
      tion Advance                              Section 2.02
                                                (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(7)   Unallocated             2,475,000
                              __________
            TOTAL             27,100,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
Page  10
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
      (a)   no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 620,000 may be made in respect of Category 1 (f) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 21,
1990.
      (b)   no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures under Category (1) (b) unless the Borrower has:
(i) submitted evidence, that it has started to sell government-owned
houses in the Project Area under Part B.1 of this Agreement and in
the Tekle Haimanot portion of the Project Area constructed or
improved under the Development Credit Agreement, (Credit
Number 1366), dated September 16, 1983, between the Borrower and the
Association; and (ii) promoted the improvement of houses in the
Project Area referred to in (i) above.
      (c)   Sub-loans in an amount up to SDR 120,000 under Category
(4) (b) (ii) shall be allocated to women in the Kebeles pursuant to
Section 4.04 (b) of the AAAR Project Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve basic
infrastructure and environmental conditions in the Project Area;
(ii) to support a core housing development program in the Project
Area, primarily for lower-income families; (iii) to promote
opportunities for poor women living in the Kebeles in the Project
Area to enhance their incomes; (iv) to provide assistance to urban
service delivery agencies within the Project Area to improve their
efficiency; and (v) to promote the adoption of sound cost recovery
policies and practices.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Housing Sites and Services
1.  Development of Serviced Plots:
      (a)    Development of approximately 2,000 serviced plots in
the Addis Ababa municipality, including 1,900 plots for residential
purposes, 50 for industrial purposes and 50 for commercial purposes,
as well as space for various community facilities (e.g., schools and
markets), including supporting infrastructure and community
facilities; and
      (b)   Development of approximately 350 serviced plots for
residential purposes in the town of Akaki, including supporting
infrastructure.
2.    Making of Sub-loans by HSB to finance the construction of the
1,900 self-help built housing units and related services in Addis
Ababa municipality and the 350 self-help built housing units and
related services in the town of Akaki.
Part B:     Upgrading of Kebeles
1.    Infrastructure Improvements:
Page  11
      (a)   Improvement of infrastructure in seven Phase 1 Kebeles
comprised of approximately 88 hectares and approximately 7,000
households in the Addis Ababa municipality; and
      (b)   Improvement of infrastructure in additional Phase 2
Kebeles in Addis Ababa municipality.
      (c)   Implementation of a resettlement plan for the people
whose homes will be affected by the Kebele upgrading program.
2.    Making of sub-loans by HSB to home-owners to finance house
improvements in the selected Kebeles.
3.    Kebele Development Fund:
      (a)   Making of Sub-loans to Kebeles in the Addis Ababa
Administrative Region for the construction of community facilities
and to undertake revenue-generating projects; and
      (b)   Making of Sub-loans to poor women living in the Kebeles
in the Addis Ababa Administrative Region for revenue-generating
projects to enhance their incomes.
Part C:     Street Maintenance in Addis Ababa
1.    Providing vehicles, equipment, spare parts and plant to AAAR
and its various departments responsible for street maintenance in
the Addis Ababa municipality.
2.    Supporting a part of AAAR's annual street and drain
maintenance program.
3.    Carrying out improvements in traffic management and road
safety measures.
Part D:     Solid Waste Management in Addis Ababa
1.    Providing vehicles, spare parts, collection containers,
landfill plant and equipment for refuse collection and disposal
purposes in the Addis Ababa municipality.
2.    Undertaking civil works to improve landfill operations on or
near the landfill site(s).
Part E:     Municipal Infrastructure in Akaki
1.    Improvement of roads and drains, particularly in the areas
around the market and the new housing development.
2.    Providing solid waste containers and municipal vehicles and
equipment to improve sanitation and road and drain maintenance.
3.    Extending an electric power line to service the new housing
development.
Part F:     Water Supply in Akaki
1.    (a)   Carrying out an evaluation of the most reliable and cost
effective solution for extending the Akaki water supply system,
including investigation of possible groundwater sources and the
possible linking of the system to the Addis Ababa water supply
system; and
      (b)   Carrying out supervision of construction.
2.    Improvement of Akaki's water supply system, including
construction of transmission main, storage reservoir, distribution
network and auxiliary buildings.
Part G:     Institutional Development
Page  12
1.    For AAAR:
      (a)   strengthening of data processing and accounting systems
through the provision of micro-computers, computer software and
related equipment;
      (b)   strengthening AAARPIO's capability in implementing the
Project, including training of its staff;
      (c)   establishment of an appropriate pavement management
system in the Roads and Buildings Department;
      (d)   strengthening the Environmental Health and Social
Services Department to improve its collection operations and the
design and operation of the sanitary landfill sites; and
      (e)   training of staff in data processing, accounting and
finance.
2.   For AWSA:
      (a)   carrying out: (i) an organization and management study
to update and streamline AWSA's future organizational structure; and
(ii) a water and sewerage tariff study;
      (b)   establishment of a computer-based management information
system;
      (c)   rehabilitation/expansion of the meter repair/calibration
workshop;
      (d)   strengthening accounting and data collection functions
through the provision of computers and related equipment;
      (e)   strengthening of branch offices through the provision of
vehicles and spare parts; and
      (f)   training for technicians, financial, accounting,
computer and managerial staff in environmental and water resources
management, project implementation, utilities general management,
and computer technology.
                           *   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Building materials for housing and for street maintenance
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 per contract
Page  13
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent to $200,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.    Civil works contracts in an aggregate amount equivalent to
$8,100,000 for the Akaki municipal infrastructure, Addis Ababa solid
waste management and street maintenance may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the  Association as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedules 4
and 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means, with respect to
the Special Accounts, the following Categories set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
             (i)  in the case of the AAAR Special Account,
                  Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (1) (c), (1) (d),
                  (1) (e), (2) (c) (i), (2) (d), (3) (a), (4) (b)
                  (ii) and (5);
Page  14
            (ii)  in the case of the AWSA Special Account,
                  Categories (1) (f), (2) (a), (2) (c) (ii), and
                  (3) (b); and
           (iii)  in the case of the HSB Special Account,
                  Categories (2) (b), (4) (a) and (4) (b) (i).
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means, with respect to
any Special Account, expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories for such Special Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, with respect to
any Special Account, the following amount to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into such Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule: (i) in the case of the AAAR
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $2,000,000, (ii) in the
case of the AWSA Special Account, an amount equivalent to $600,000,
and (iii) in the case of the HSB Special Account, an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000.
2.    Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that any Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation from such Special Account and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation from such
Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a
request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of such Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into such
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of such Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into such Special Account
                  at such intervals as the Association shall
                  specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  such Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of such Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the eligible Categories for such Special
Account, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
Page  15
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request, or (B) deposit into such Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
