Report No. PID8042
Project Name                     Zambia-Technical Education Vocational and (@)
Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Development
Support Program
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Vocational/Technical Education & Training
Project ID                       ZMPE57167
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY &
VOCATIONAL TRAINING
P.O. Box 50464, Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: Mr. Romance Sampa,
Permanent Secretary
Tel: 260 1 252411
Fax: 260 1 252951
Email: psmstvt@zamnet.zm
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 30, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 9, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 24, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Following years of decline, the Zambian economy grew modestly in 1996 and
1997. However, its gross domestic product (GDP) declined by 2.9% in 1998
and grew by only 2.02% in 1999 and by 3.47% in 2000.    This was largely
owing to the uncertainties around the privatization of the Copper mines,
limiting inward investment and donor support, and a 25% fall in the price
of copper. The last group of mines has now been sold and the economic
projections for the next three years indicate an average annual growth
rate of 4.5%. While copper will remain critical for export earnings and
basic agriculture will be essential for subsistence for many Zambians,
there are other areas of hope. High value agriculture and
agro-industries, tourism and specialized services have been identified as
potential growth areas, and early indications from these sectors suggest
reasons to be optimistic.An educated, well trained and flexible workforce
is critical for this growth. Recently Zambia, in collaboration with
internal and external stakeholders launched a reform process in order to
improve the quality, cost-effectiveness and demand relevance of training.
The Ministry of Science Technology and Vocational Training (MSTVT) is
responsible for training policy affecting other line ministries offering
training (e.g. Schools for Continuing Education under the Ministry of
Education (MOE) as well as the private "for profit" and voluntary
providers). Currently, about 7,000 full-time and about 2,000 part-time
students are being trained in Government institutions while approximately
15,000 more are being trained in private for-profit and
voluntary-administered institutions. In addition, some large firms provide
their own training.Training sector issuesThere are many issues affecting
the training sector. These include financing, changing demand, rigid



supply by Government institutions, poor training quality in Government and
private training institutions, lack of information on training,
inequitable access and the impact of HIV/AIDS.FinancingUnderlying all the
problems with the training system is the issue of financing. This issue is
multi-faceted:Adequacy of Government financing: Government has been
providing declining grants to public training institutes over the recent
past and there is minimal cost-sharing with the students or the private
sector.Allocation of Government financing: Government financing is
available only to public providers of training. Transparency of Government
funding mechanism: The mechanism for financing different providers, is not
linked to any performance criteria or to whether institutions are
responding to demand.Sustainability of Government financing: Supporting
current student numbers with the finances likely to be available show a
recurrent financing gap of about USD 23 million over the next five years.
If capital/developmental costs are included, the financing gap rises to
about USD60 million over the same time period.Demand for skills in the
labor marketDemand for skills is changing. Zambia's labor force has been
growing rapidly in the 1990s. Labor force participation rates are high,
especially in the 25-64 age group -- where they are close to 85%.
However, most of the incoming labor force has been absorbed into the
informal sector or into unemployment -- over this time period,
unemployment rates have risen from 11% to 159.    Informal sector growth is
concentrated in small-scale manufacturing, distribution and miscellaneous
services and skills needs have been increasing. Limited use of data on
labor market demand and supply of training. Surveys and formal/informal
contacts between the training system and employers are not used well in
Zambia and little use is made by policymakers of information on trends in
labor market demand to modify the training system response to this
demand. The capacity to analyze information on market demands and skill
supply to make informed decisions also seems to be lacking. Supply of
skills: the public training systemThe quality of training is poor.
Expenditures on classrooms, workshops and equipment are low leading to
these being dilapidated and in short supply. Staff are poorly paid and
motivation and productivity are low.Management was centralized, training
was Government dominated and provision uncoordinated. Until the MSTVT
institutions were placed under autonomous management boards in early 2000,
all important decisions were taken in Lusaka. There was no meaningful
local autonomy; institutions had to get approval from the center for
hiring/firing staff, changing courses and curricula and for any
significant expenditures. Public training provision is not geared to the
needs of the labor market. The training system was established in the
1960s and early 1970s and has not adjusted to changes in the economic
environment, including the changes caused by privatization of the mines
and shedding by Government of many of its public enterprises.Supply of
skills: the private training systemPrivate "for profit" institutions
cannot compete on a level-playing field. In 1996, private providers
accounted for 67% of the institutions (365), 65% of total enrollment
(18,258), and 62% of the courses offered (461). Limited access to
capital, inadequacy of the competitively determined fees to finance
necessary equipment and instructional materials, MSTVT support limited to
poorly maintained registration records and infrequent inspections are
problems identified in two surveys. A 1999 study comparing costs of
training in public and private training institutions found that while unit
costs in private training institutions were about 30% higher than those in
public training institutions, this was mainly owing to higher
-2 -



staff/student ratios and significantly greater, though often still
insufficient, spending on necessary training materials. Non-profit
providers are operating on limited resources. Church and other NGO-run
courses tend to be small, practically-oriented, and targeted towards poor
students. These institutions are heavily dependent on charitable sources
for operating costs. Many have close links to small-scale industry in the
area and are able to find employment for some students. The only quality
assurance procedure for private providers was the registration function
which was performed on payment of a fee of K77,000 to MSTVT and required
an inspection visit. Other issues Trainees have inadequate information on
institutions. Very little information on course availability is offered
and there is no published information available on course offerings,
qualification needed or training outcomes which may aid students in making
decisions.Little interaction between employers and the training system.
Employers are provided with little information on the relative performance
and quality of training institutions. Given the perceived poor quality of
training, employers are reluctant to contribute towards training costs and
many have stopped hiring graduates from the public training
system.Marginalization of poor and disadvantaged groups in training.
Zambia's past emphasis on training for formal sector employment has
excluded many individuals from poor socio-economic backgrounds who have
low levels of education, from entering training institutions. Poor
females have also been marginalized from participating in training.
HIV/AIDS. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Zambia is high at 19.7%. The
HIV/AIDS epidemic affects the training sector through its impact on: the
availability of skilled people; and on the demand for training: the
HIV/AIDS incidence has contributed to an increase in the number of
orphaned youths, estimated at over 600,000 (2000) of which 65% are between
the age of 10-18 years. Finally, HIV/AIDS affects the environment within
training institutions especially through the direct impact on staff as
well as costs to be borne by institutions on funerals etc..Government
responseRecognizing these problems, Government's plans for the training
sector are radical: a new training authority has been established and
staffed, 21 of the 23 MSTVT institutions have been granted autonomy under
the supervision of management boards, and there is commitment to
establishing a level playing field for private providers. The reform
process began in 1996 with Government issuing a policy document: Technical
Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Policy (1996)
that identified the problems facing the economy and the training
institutions and formulated a broad national policy on training.
Subsequently, Government produced a strategy paper: Strategy Paper for
Technical Education and Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) in Zambia (1997)
which provided strategies for implementing the new policy and an action
plan. Government then passed these reforms into law through the Technical
Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Bill, 1998. The Board
of the Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training
Authority (TEVETA) was constituted in mid-1999 and the staff selected and
appointed in early 2000. Management Boards for Training Institutions were
established in 2000 in 21 (of 23) MSTVT training institutions and all of
the staff of these institutions provided with their termination benefits.
Government is committed to continue to finance training and it is also
expecting the private sector to make a significant contribution towards
training costs. Government initially intended to impose a training levy
in 2001. Stakeholder consultations, however, indicated that this is not a
feasible idea in the short-run. Partly to convince employers of their
-3 -



serious intentions, Government has determined to establish a Training Fund
and pilot modes of financing and application. The objective will be to
test and demonstrate the demand for, and the effectiveness and efficiency
of both pre-employment training as well as employer-based training.During
2000 and 2001, Government designed the TEVET Development Program (TDP) to
operationalize plans and to manage external financing for the sector. TDP
was appraised in January by a group of external financing partners;
DANIDA, Netherlands Embassy, GTZ and the World Bank. The partners have
each committed to supporting TDP.
2. Objectives
The program development objective is to develop a TEVET system that has
the potential to improve skills for both the formal and informal sectors
of the economy through creating a high-quality, sustainable,
demand-driven, and equitable training system. Government is reorienting
its role from being both a provider and financier of training to
regulating, monitoring, evaluating and providing some financing for
demand-driven training.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has considerable experience of working on sector-wide
approaches in Zambia, and indeed across Africa. In addition, the World
Bank has considerable experience of the sector. A policy paper on
Vocational and Technical Education and Training was published in 1991.
Also, in 1999, the Bank, in collaboration with the International Labor
Office published an in-depth study of skills development in nineteen
countries, including Zambia. Finally, the World Bank has been able to
bring global experience to the design of TDP.
4. Description
TDP will assist the reforms being proposed by Government through the
following nine components: (a) Overall Program management; (b) TEVET
Financing; (c) Organization and Management of TEVET; (d) Training systems,
trade testing and examinations; (e) Entrepreneurship development and
informal sector training; (f) Human resource development; (g) TEVET
information systems; (h) Infrastructure and equipment; (i) Gender,
HIV/AIDS and other Cross-cutting issues. TEVET Program Costs (USD
million), 2001-2006
1.  Overall Program Management (incl. MSTVT recurrent costs)     4.26
2.  TEVET Financing    15.30
3.  Organization and Management of TEVET    5.39
4. Training Systems, Trade Testing and Examinations (incl. TEVETA direct
costs)   2.15
5.  Entrepreneurship Development and Informal Sector Training     4.38
6.  Human Resource Development    6.37
7.  TEVET Information System    1.14
8.  Physical Infrastructure and Equipment    55.14
9.  Gender, HIV/AIDS and other Cross-Cutting Issues     0.50
5.  Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 94.63 (of which World Bank financing 25.00)
6. Implementation
Institutional arrangementsCurrently the three key institutions are MSTVT,
- 4 -



TEVETA and training providers. The functions of MSTVT include: making and
monitoring sector policy; drafting and legislating legal statutes for the
training sector; budgetary facilitation; and establishment and closure of
training institutions and their management boards. The functions of
TEVETA include: advisory assistance to sector stakeholders; regulatory
authority; and administrative support in specified areas. The functions
of the Management Boards of Autonomous (ex-MSTVT managed) training
institutions include: training provision; development of cost recovery
tools like tuition fees; developing curricula; hiring and firing staff;
and observing policy and regulations Implementation arrangementsThe
Program will establish two oversight committees -- a Stakeholders' Forum
and a Program Steering Committee. The Stakeholders' Forum will meet
annually and its membership will include all stakeholders, trainees,
private and public providers, TEVETA, NGOs etc. The Forum will receive
and discuss annual work programs and budgets for the training sector as
well as reports on implementation, and will make recommendations to the
Program Steering Committee (PSC). The PSC will meet at least
semi-annually with one of the meetings preceded by the Stakeholders'
Forum. The PSC will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MSTVT, and
will receive, discuss, alter, in the light of Forum comments, and approve
annual work programs and budgets. The Forum and PSC will be supported by
a Program Coordination Office (PCO) within the Directorate of Vocational
Education and Training of MSTVT. The functions will include: preparing
annual work plans; preparing financial and management reports; disbursing
funds to implementing agencies; and organizing the PSC and Forum
meetings. While many of these functions will be performed by current
staff of MSTVT (financial reports will be prepared by the Directorate of
Finance, Procurement reports by the Procurement Unit and Monitoring and
Evaluation within the Directorate of Planning), it will be necessary to
designate a Program Coordinator and it may be necessary to employ
technical assistance to build up capacity.Implementation of TEVET will be
the main responsibility of TEVETA and the training providers, including
industry. TEVETA will operate as an independent agency with its statutory
authority and will present budgets and work plans to the Program Steering
Committee (PSC) for consideration and approval. In addition, TEVETA will
provide quarterly and annual progress and financial reports to the PSC.
When TEVETA is procurement accredited by the Zambia National Tender Board,
it will carry out its own procurement. Individual training providers have
responsibility for providing training and are supported currently through
finance for salaries of contract staff provided by Government and
Recurrent Development Grants which are both inadequate and unreliable.
When the Training Fund is established, funds for training will be provided
through the Fund. The Fund will be located within TEVETA with a good deal
of external support in its design and initial functioning.Financial
managementUnder the supervision of the Program Coordinator, the Finance
Manager will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and
reporting procedures will be acceptable to Government, the World Bank and
other Cooperating Partners. The principal objective of the TDP's
financial management system (FMS) will be to support management in their
deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy,
efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to
achieve desired outcomes. Likely utilization of the IDA creditIDA support
is intended to assist the achievements of all the TDP objectives, and the
Development Credit Agreement is drafted in such a way as to enable IDA
funds to be devoted to any of the components. In order to reserve some of
- 5 -



the IDA Credit to be used flexibly to meet needs for which the Government
will be seeking grant aid, not all of which may materialize, only USD 20
million (80%) of the Credit [was] allocated at Negotiations to specific
Categories of new expenditure, with USD 5 million (20%) reserved in the
Unallocated Category and USD 0.22 million to be devoted to refunding the
Project Preparation advance
7. Sustainability
Resources available for training have been inadequate and sustainability
will depend critically on Government's ability to involve employers,
trainees and Government itself in the financing of a demand-driven
system. TDP is addressing this by clearly specifying a continued role for
Government in the financing of training, increasing cost-sharing from the
trainees, and developing mechanisms to demonstrate to the employers the
benefits of contributing to the training fund. In the short-term,
Government, bilateral donor, and IDA finance will be provided to support
training initiatives through the Training Fund and the employers will be
involved in managing the fund. This will ensure that the mechanisms for
allocation and utilization of funds are transparent and efficient. As the
Training Fund gains credibility, Government and employers will finalize
their discussion of the modality for contributions. As employer financing
increases, IDA funding will be gradually withdrawn.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Some lessons from the experience of previous projects in Zambia
include:Coordination of external support. TDP will provide a vehicle for
coordination of views on policy, and external assistance, and is being
prepared by a team of Government officials, with regular periodic feedback
from representatives of external funding agencies. These agencies are
committed to supporting Government's efforts and have agreed to work
within TDP guidelines and to support TDP components. However, lessons
from sector programs in education include the importance of clearly
differentiating Bank and individual donor contributions and developing an
agreed process for donor coordination. Need for broad understanding of
the policy framework. Based on the experience of other sector reform
programs, the following are important for success: (i) within Government,
there should be sufficient discussion between the political leadership and
the technical staff, to ensure that both parties understanding of the
policy and reforms is similar; (ii) there should be adequate dissemination
of the reforms; (iii) there should be appropriate technical expertise on
the donor's side; and (iv) partnership between Government and donors needs
constant dialogue. The political leadership of TDP has worked closely
with officials throughout the design stage and IEC is an important aspect
of TDP. The program management and coordination arrangements have been
designed to ensure regular dialogue.Supporting institutional autonomy. An
institutional analysis was conducted as part of project preparation.
MSTVT and TEVETA capacity to implement is weak and a good deal of
attention is being paid within TDP to capacity building, including
planning, and financial management and, within training institutions
themselves to building up the capacity to develop good business plans and
assess the demand and plan for demand-driven training. Successful
decentralization to Management Boards will remove day to day
decision-taking from the Ministry allowing officials to concentrate on
monitoring and regulating the system.
- 6-



9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         The Project is not expected to generate any adverse
environmental effects.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Patrick D. Murphy
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1 202 473-6450
Fax: 1 202 473-8239
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 6, 2001.
- 7 -



