       ZAMBIA -TechnicalEducation,Vocational andEntrepreneurshipTraining
               DevelopmentProgramSupport Project- (Credit No. 3521-ZA)               -
                 ProposedAmendment to the DevelopmentCreditAgreement


 1.      The Government of Zambia has requestedthat the Development Credit Agreement
 (DCA) for the Technical Education, Vocational and EntrepreneurshipTraining Development
 Program be amended. This memorandum sets out thejustification for the proposed
 amendment, and seeks the ExecutiveDirectors' approval.

                           I.InitiationofaTEVETReformProcess

 2.      InZambia, there are23 public sector training institutions(Technical Colleges
 offering programs o f up to 3 years, and Trades Training Institutesoffering programs o f up to
 2 years) affiliatedwith the Ministryo f Science, Technology, and Vocational Training
 (MSTVT). Some other ministriesalso have training centers offering shorter Technical
 Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) courses. Most TEVET in
Zambia i s providedby nongovernment providers, and there are more than200 registered
TEVET institutions. Manyofthe public sector training institutionswere originally oriented
to meetingthe needs o f formal sector industries. Duringthe 1990s, Zambia's copper mining
industrydeclined, and other industrieswere adversely affectedby import liberalization, with
consequencesfor formal sector employment. Employment inthe informal sector has
increased, raising the demand for training for self-employment.

3.      A process ofreconsidering thepolicy and institutionalframework for the TEVET
subsector got underwayin 1994, supported by Danida. The TEVETPolicy (1996) stated that
the TEVET systemneededto behighlyresponsive to employment patterns o fthe economy.
Institutional and non-institutional training inside and outside o f Government establishments
would berecognized and encouraged. Toward those objectives, the organizationaland
management structure for TEVET would be reviewed. Inorder to increase and diversify
sources o f financing, a training fund would be established.

4.      The TEVETAct of1998 enabled the Ministerfor Science, Technology and
Vocational Training (theMinister)to appoint Management Boards, with functions including
cost recovery, for Government sponsored training institutions. It also created a Technical
Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship TrainingAuthority (TEVETA)with the
following functions, among others: (a) advise the Minister on TEVET inZambia; (b) regulate
and advise Management Boards; (c) curricula; (d) examinations; (e) trades testing (f)
registrationand inspectiono fbothpublic and private TEVET institutions. TEVETA i s
headedby Director-General, who reports to a Board, a majority o f whose members are drawn
from the private sector, including employers. As a parastatal body, TEVETA determines the
terms and conditions o f service for its staff, with the approval o f the Minister, inconsultation
with the Cabinet. This means that TEVETA pays betterthan the mainstream civil service.
The Act also unbundledsome responsibilities formerly carried out byMSTVT,but it didnot
describe the residual responsibilities o f MSTVT, subsequent to the creation o f Management
Boards and TEVETA.

                                                2


                        11.Designof the TEVET DevelopmentProgram

 5.      Inorder to mobilize increaseddonor support, the TEVET DevelopmentProgram
 (TDP)was prepared during 1999-2000, resultingina ProgramImplementationPlan2001-05
 (PIP). The development objective o f TDP i s the creation of a high-quality, sustainable,
demand-driven, and equitable TEVET system. Two or more monitoringindicators were
identifiedfor each ofthe four desiredcharacteristics of quality, sustainability, demand-
responsiveness, and equity.

6.      TDP consists o f the following components: (a) organization andmanagement o f
TEVET; (b) training systems, trade testing, and examinations; (c) entrepreneurship and
informal sector development; (d) humanresource development; (e) TEVET information
systems; (0infrastructureand equipment; (g) "cross-cutting issues" (HIV/AIDS and gender);
and (h) TEVET financing. As set out inthe PIP, the TEVET Act would be reviewed
amendedby2002, and the TEVET Fundwould be operationalized by September 2002.

7.      Ajoint appraisal ofTDP byrepresentatives ofDanida, GTZ, the Netherlands, andthe
World Bank took place inJanuary 2001,resultingina Joint Appraisal Report. EUand JICA
also participated insome o f the plenarymeetings inLusaka. According to its terms o f
reference, the Joint Appraisal would provide directions for support "through the principles o f
Sector Wide Approach (SWAP)".

8.      The Programdesign provided for Government-led procedures, such as an Annual
Work Programand Budget (AWPB) process, and semi-annual Program Steering Committee
meetings,modeledbroadly after the ongoingbasic education program ofthe Ministry o f
Education. Itwas recognizedthat cooperating partners would support TDP invarious ways:

     0    Ongoing, targeted, "project-type" support beingprovidedby GTZ, EU, and JICA
          was recognized as falling withinthe umbrella o f TDP.

     0    Danidamade a new commitment o f "Sector Program Support" in2001. These funds
          are directed to TEVETA, andto four identified TEVET training institutions in
         Lusaka, Livingstone, and the Copperbelt Province. The annual budgetproposals for
         the Danishfunds are approved by the Boards o f the respective institutions, following
         submission by the respective chief executives. Thus, these funds do not flow
         through MSTVT.

     0   The funds providedbythe Netherlands andbyIDA are each administered by
         MSTVT, for purposes within the AWPB. The IDA Credit insupport o fTDP was
         approved inJune 2001, and became effective inFebruary 2002.

9.     To help administer TDP, MSTVT proposed the creation o f a Program Coordination
Office (PCO), headedby a Program Coordinator. This was a controversial issue inthejoint
appraisal, with at least one fundingpartner considering it an unnecessary distraction. There
would also be a coordinator for each component. The Joint Appraisal Report observed that
betaken over bythe line officials o fMSTVT . ."PCO
"Parallel structures should not be created. .. the    is temporary and its functions should
                                               ,   According to the implementing

                                                  3


 arrangements established inthe IDA'SProgramAppraisal Document (PAD), the PCO would
bewithinthe DirectorateofVocational EducationandTraining ofMSTVT", while many
 functions would be performedby existing line units o f MSTVT.

 10.     The Government's TDPStatement ofsector Policy (April 2001) buildsuponthe
 earlier documents mentionedabove. It says that "MSTVT will coordinate policy
 formulation, monitor and evaluate the system, and provide financing to the system. The
 autonomous training institutions, along with TEVETA, will be the main bodies implementing
TEVET." Regardingfinancing: "Government is committed to givingthe MSTVT training
institutions a grant to pay the salaries o ftheir staff inthe short term. Inthe long term,
MSTVTwill finance TEVET throughthe TEVET Fund". The TEVET Fund, to belocated
within TEVETA, would beinnovative intwo important respects: (a) Itwould be accessible
competitively byprivate as well as public TEVET providers; (b) it would be "demand-
driven" inthe sense that demonstrated success inlabor market placement would be an
important criterion for courses to qualify for subsidization.


                             111.Implementationof the Program

 11.     The Program Steering Committeemet for the first time inJune 2001, andhas
continuedto meet periodically thereafter. The first consolidated AWPB was approved in
early 2002. The PCO was staffed beginninginJanuary 2002 with persons on 2-year
contracts, and was set up ina Government office buildingapart from MSTVT and TEVETA.
Processes for procuring office equipment, tools, andworkshop equipment, for civil works
rehabilitation, and for recruitingconsulting firms for various consultancies, got under way.

12.      Nonetheless, during2002-03 the external financing agencies supporting TDP became
dissatisfied with the progress o fthe Program. Cooperating partners were concerned that the
Programwas underperforminginexpenditure terms. In2002, the rate o f expenditure from
the approved AWPB ofIDAandNetherlands funds controlled bythe PCOwas only 13%.
For the first ninemonths o f 2003, the expenditure o f IDMetherlands funds controlled was
only 16% ofthe approved full-year amount. The ratio of actual expenditure to budgetsunder
the Danida assistance was somewhat better, but still below 50%.

13.     Moreparticularly, keyinstitutionalreform activities were lagging. A planned
consultingtask on review o f the TEVET Act was abandoned becausethe funding agency (a
bilateral) was dissatisfied with the fairness o fthe procurement process that hadbeen
followed. The consultancy on establishment o f the TEVET Fundlagged behindthe original
timetable, with a contract awarded only inJune 2003.

14.     Regardingthe institutional framework: Incountries where National Training
Authorities (NTAs) such as Zambia's TEVETA have been created, insufficient clarity inthe
assignment o f responsibilities has often ledto tensions betweenthe N T A and the parent
ministry, and donors have hadthis perceptioninZambia. Inthe caseof TDP, the
administrative environment was further complicatedby the creationo f the PCO. Donors
perceived that the PCO was functioning ina semi-detached manner, similarly to a Project
ImplementationUnit,thereby endangering the principle o f TDP functions being carried out

                                                 4


to the maximum extent possible by the respective departments o f M S T V T and TEVETA.
The selection o f component coordinators did not well reflect established responsibilities in
M S T V T and TEVETA. The disparity incompensation between M S T V T civil servants, on
the one hand, and TEVETA andthe PCO, on the other hand, was reported to be demotivating
contributions from M S T V T civil servants. Finally, during 2001-03 there were five different
regular or acting Permanent Secretaries o f MSTVT. In the view o f donors, these institutional
factors contributed to the lagging implementation o f the Program.

15.     Neither the Joint Appraisal Report, nor the IDA PAD and DCA, provide for a
MidtermReview. Inview o f their dissatisfactionwith the implementation o f the Program,
the funding agencies proposed in2003 that a "Joint Review" (substantively equivalent to a
MidtermReview) be carried out, and this was agreed. The Review took place inNovember/
December 2003. The team was led by a Bank staff education specialist, and consisted o f
thirteen persons selected by five appointing agencies -MSTVT, TEVETA, Danida, the
Netherlands Embassy, and the Bank. A draft report was presentedto GRZ stakeholders in
December 2003, and the Joint Review Report (JRR) was finalized in2004.

16.     Major findings o f the JRR were as follows:

    0   Implementation progress toward component outputs has lagged seriously behind
       plans, for all components. Reasons included overambitious AWPBs, insufficient
        administrative capacity, cumbersome approval and procurement procedures, and an
        overoptimistic assessment o f the implications o f the reformprocess.


    0  "The Review finds very slow progress toward achieving the Development
       Objectives'' o f quality, sustainability, demand-responsiveness, and equity. (Note:
       Many o f the quantitative D.O. indicators depend on setting up new M&E systems for
       a sample o f TEVET institutions, and on the labor market experience o f TEVET
       graduates. Consultancies hadbeen launchedby the time o f the Joint Review, but had
       not yet yielded baseline or post-baseline data. The team's findings on the D.O. were
       based on site visits and interviews with TEVET institutions, students, and employers.)


    0  The institutional assessment found that the TEVET Act does not provide sufficient
       clarity, and that the TDP administrative design was not aligned with established GRZ
       structures. "Reluctance to cooperate" was found.


    0  Domestically-resourced GRZ funding for TEVET had decreased substantially inreal
       terms. TEVETA was heavily financially dependent on Danida, with Danida funds
       being 73% o f TEVETA's income in2002. Because o f weaknesses inaccounting and
       financial reporting, the true financial condition o f the MSTVT-affiliated training
       institutions was not very clear, but many had fallen into arrears to suppliers and other
       creditors, and some were "technically insolvent". (Although the preparatiodappraisal
       process had recognized generally that "human resource development" was needed in
       the TEVET sector, the financial management o fbeneficiary institutions hadnot been
       identified specifically as a problem then.)

                                                5


 17.    The Review made 33 recommendations. Among them were that the PCO should be
 dissolved, with its staff and functions mainstreamed, some into MSTVT and others into
TEVETA, andthat MSTVT shouldprepare detailedplans for proceeding with strategically
important, delayed outputs, such as revisiono f the TEVET Act and establishment of the
TEVET Fund.

 18.    Itwas quickly agreedinprinciplethat the PCOwould bedissolved. However, the
process between MSTVT and TEVETA to reach agreement on the details o fmainstreaming
absorbed several months, and some details o fthe JRR's recommendations on mainstreaming
were not acceptedby GRZ. Indue course, the "Joint ResponseofMSTVT and TEVETA to
the Joint ReviewReport" was approved at the ProgramSteering Committee meetingof June
2004. Subsequently, a revisedProgramOperations Manual (POM) reflecting the decisions
taken at the PSC meeting, and an updated ProgramImplementationPlan (PIP) 2002-06, were
issued inJuly 2004.

 19.    Inthe revisedPOM, the following changeshavebeenmade inthe administrative
arrangements for the Program:

    0   TheProgram CoordinationOffice, andthejob title "Program Coordinator", are
        discontinued.
    0   Inadditionto theProgramSteering Committee, aProgramTechnical Committee,
        chaired by the Permanent Secretary o fMSTVT, which will meet quarterly, i s
        described. The Program CoordinationTeam i s chaired by the Director-Generalo f
        TEVETA.
    0   The allocation of "component coordination" responsibilitiesbetweenMSTVT and
        TEVETA i s specified, ina manner that reflects the established responsibilities o f the
        two agencies.
    0   The Department ofVocational Educationand Training o fMSTVT will support the
        coordinationo f the Program.

20.     Since then, there have been ongoing discussions between the Bank staff and GRZ,
concerning amendmento fthe D C A to reflect the changes agreed inJune 2004, and to
introduceinto the D C A dated covenants for initial disbursements from the TEVET Fund, and
on revision o fthe TEVET Act. It has beennecessary for MSTVT to consult with the
Ministry o f Finance and the Ministryo f Justice on these latter points. Inearly January 2005,
the Bank received a letter from GRZ communicatingthat the Cabinet had, inDecember
2004, approved the establishment o f the TEVET Fundwhich will have three recurrent-cost
fundingWindows and one investment fbndingWindow:


    0   Window 1will be for pre-employment training, mainly o f school-leavers, informal
       training institutions.
    0  Window 2 will subsidize in-service training informal sector firms. Although
       Window 2 fundingon a large scale would be made available to firms only after the
       plannedTraining Levy has been introduced, it will bepilot-tested with funds
       providedby donors.

                                                6


      0  Window 3 will subsidize training for Small and MediumEnterprises (SMEs) and the
         informal sector.
      0  Window 4 will support the "investment" needs (civil works, equipment, and human
         resource development) o f TEVET training institutions.

 All four Windows will beintroducedduring2005. Also, the TEVET Act will berevised
 during2005.

 21,     ByJune 2004, the programs ofassistanceinthe TEVET sector ofEU, GTZ, and
 JICA had all beencompleted, without beingrenewed. Thus, at this time, the remaining
 cooperating partners participating inthe TDP policy and institutionaldialogue are Danida,
the Netherlands, and the Bank. Among these three, only Danidaand the Bank are actively
 disbursingat this time. The Netherlandshas suspendedits disbursements, inview o f
 disappointment with the implementationo f TDP. Danida's Sector Program Support comes
to an end inOctober 2006.

22.      A t this time, SDR 9.2 million(US$ 6.4 million equivalent) has beendisbursed from
the IDA Credit o f SDR 25.0 million (US$ 29.1 million equivalent). Thus, the Credit i s 33%
disbursed. The category with the greatest disbursement(US$4.4 million) hasbeen Goods,
such as tools, workshop equipment, computers, and other office equipment. Audit covenants
have beenobserved consistently. GRZ has expressed interest inextension o f the Closing
Date o fDecember 31,2006, by one year, to which the Bank staff have responded that this
could be considered in2006 inthe event o f sustained improvement inimplementation
performance.


                                  IV. ProposedAmendment

23.      The development objectives will not be affected by the proposed amendment. It is
proposed to amend the DCA substantially, to provide for the changes to the implementing
arrangements, and to reflect inthe Project descriptionthat the training fund (TEVET Fund)
established under the second component i s indicatedto support training programs and TVET
investmentsas outlined inparagraph 20 above. It i s therefore proposed to amend the
appropriate provisions o f the Project Descriptionunder Schedule 2 to the DCA, as well as
Program Implementation under Schedule 4.

24.     ProgramImplementationArrangements. The amendments to Schedule 4 will
reflect the dissolution o fthe PCO and the mainstreamingo f functions into MSTVT and
TEVETA, as well as to note the agreeddates for covenants relating to the revision o fthe
TEVET Act, and for initial disbursementsfrom Windows 1and 3 (for which design is most
advanced) o f the TEVET Fund, and to indicate that the procedures, terms and conditions for
implementation o f the training programs are contained inthe TEVET FundOperations
Manual. The reporting andmonitoringprovisions under Schedule 4 will also be amended to
outline additional information relating to financial management and audit o f the MSTVT-
affiliated TEVET institutions that would specifically need to be contained inthe annual
reports submittedto IDA.

                                                  7


 25.     Withdrawal of Proceeds: Itis proposedto amend Schedule 1 to reallocate the
 proceeds o f the Credit within categories. The proposed reallocation is an increase o f SDR
 2,020,000 (10% o f the value o f the Credit) inthe Goods category, offset by reductions inthe
 PPFRefund category and the Unallocated category. A table withproposednew allocations
 under the respective corresponding categories o f disbursement is shown inthe Attachment.

 26.     It is also proposed to amend Schedule 1to raise the percentages o f disbursement to
 100% for all categories. The Government's request i s based on the approved country
 financing parameters for Zambia. There have been no difficulties experienced in
 Government counterpart contribution for specific activities financed from the Credit.
However, there are issues o f insufficient availability o f GRZ funding for TTIs (para. 16
 above), andprospectively for TEVETA (para. 28 below). Reduction of counterpart funding
requirements would helpfully free up GRZ fiscal resources for other worthwhile purposes
withinthe TEVET sector. There is adequate financing within the Credit to complete the
Project activities inthe absence o f Government's contribution.


                                    V. JustificationandRisks

27.     Despite the delays that have occurred, the development objectives o f improvingthe
quality o f the TEVET system, andmaking it more sustainable, demand-responsive, and
equitable, remain achievable. Duringthe 14months since the Joint Review, there has been
sustained dialogue between GRZ and the remaining cooperating partners supporting TDP,
conceming the weaknesses inprogram implementation, and how to address them. The
proposed amendment reflects the results o f this dialogue. The improved alignment between
TDP administrative arrangements, andthe established structures o fMSTVT and TEVETA,
provides possibility for improved implementation. Given the importance for TDP o f
establishment o f the TEVET Fundand revision o f the TEVET Act, it i s important that the
legal document should indicate dated covenants for these steps.

28.     Ofthe seven specific risks identified inthe Program Appraisal Document, five were
evaluated as Modest, one as Substantial, and one as Negligible, with an Overall Risk rating
was "Modest".     Inthe perspective ofsubsequent experience, these risk ratings were too low.
Inthe course o fsupervision, the Overall Riskratinghas beenincreasedto "Substantial".            As
described inthe Country Assistance Strategy (March 2004), public sector management in
Zambia has been chronically weak. To carry out a reform program inthis environment i s a
challenge. GRZ will need to take advantage o f the opportunity o f revision o f the TEVET Act
to clarify the roles o f various actors inthe sector, especially the relative responsibilities o f
M S T V T and TEVETA. The most recent problem to emerge is a financing gap for TEVETA
in2005 and beyond, as plannedprogressivereductions inDanidasupport are notbeing
compensated by increased GRZ funding of TEVETA (as had been agreed between GRZ and
Danida earlier). Possible measures, on boththe income and expenditure sides, to address the
TEVETA financing gap are being discussed between GRZ and cooperating partners. Even
after the amendment, TDP remains a substantially riskyoperation.

                                             8


29.    Inthe absenceoftheproposed amendment, itwouldbedifficult tojustify
continuation o f Bank support for TDP. The amendment provides a framework, including
milestones for key institutionalmeasures, within which it would bejustified to allow GRZ
more time to achieve results inthe TEVET sector.

                                                                                              Attachment

                                       ProposedNew Allocations'



                                             Amount of the
                                             Credit Allocated                   % of
                                              (Expressed in                Expenditures
          Category                          SDR Equivalent)               to be Financed


(1)      Civil Works                                780,000             100%


(2)      Goods:                                   3,800,000             100%

(3)      Consultants' services:                   1,560,000             100%

(4)      Training

         (a) Grants for                           7,390,000             100% of the amounts
        TrainingPrograms                                                disbursed

         (b) Staffdevelopment                     1,560,000             100%
        and other training costs

        (c) Bursaries                               780,000             100% of the amounts
                                                                        disbursed

(5)     Operating Costs                           1,560,000             100%

(6)     Refinancing of Project                     201,476              Amount due pursuantto
        Preparation Advance                                             Section 2.02(b) of this
                                                                        Agreement

(7)     Unallocated                              1,868,524

             TOTAL                              19,500,000




 Revisions are proposed inthree categories: (a) The allocation for Goods will increase from SDR
1,780,000 originally, to SDR 3,800,000; (b) The allocation for refinancing of the Project Preparation
Facility Advance will be reduced from SDR 460,000 originally, to SDR 201,476 (the amount actually
disbursedfor this purpose); (c) The allocation inthe Unallocated category willbe reduced from SDR
3,630,000 originally to SDR 1,868,524. The allocations inall other categories remain unchanged.

