Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21417 - ZA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.5 MILLION
(USD 25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL EDUCATION VOCATIONAL & ENTREPRENEURSHIP TRAINING (TEVET)
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
May 23, 2001
Human Development 1
Country Department 2
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2001)
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (ZMK)
ZMK 3,220 = US$]
US$1.27 - SDR I
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIAI'IONS AND ACRONYMS
AG                 Auditor General
BESSIP             Basic Education Subsector Investment Program
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CBO                Community-based organization
CD                 Curriculum Developer
CDF                Comprehensive Development Framework
CIDA               Canadian International Development Agency
CSO                Central Statistical Office
DANIDA             Danish International Development Agency
DVET               Directorate of Vocational Education and Training
EBP                Equity-based Programs
ECZ                Examinations Council of Zambia
EIA                Environmental Impact Assessment
EISDU              Entrepreneurship and Informal Sector Development Unit
EMP                Environmental Management Plan
EMIS               Education Management Information System
EU                 European Union
FMPC               Financial Management and Procurement Committee
FMPM               Financial Management and Procurement Manual
FMS                Financial Management System
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GRZ                Government of the Republic of Zambia
GPN                General Procurement Notice
GTZ                Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Co-operation)
HIV/AIDS           Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
HRD                Human Resource Development
IDA                International Development Association
IEC                Information, Education and Communication
ILO                International Labor Office
IRR                Internal Rate of Return
ITC                International Trades Center
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:    Dzingai Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader:    Paud Murphy



JICA              Japan International Cooperation Agency
JSC               Joint Steering Committee
KPI               Key Performance Indicators
LCMS              Living Conditions Monitoring Study
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MCDSS             Ministry of Community Development and Social Services
MoE               Ministry of Education
MoFED             Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MoU               Memorandum of Understanding
MSTVT             Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training
MYSCD             Ministry of Youth Sport and Child Development
NGO               Non-governmental organizations
NORTEC            Northern Technical College
MOR               Output Monitoring Report
NTA               National Training Authority (now TEVETA)
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PCO               Program Coordination Office
PCT               Program Coordination Team
PFPM              Project Financial and Procurement Manual
PMR               Program Management Report
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
PRSP              Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSC               Program Steering Committee
PU                Procurement Unit
QAE               Quality at Entry
SA                Special Account
SADC              Southern Africa Development Community
SME               Small and Medium Enterprises
TP                Training Provider
TDP               TEVET Development Program
TEVET             Technical Education Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training
TEVETA            Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Authority
T-Test            Trades Test
TVTC              Technical and Vocational Teachers' College
VET               Vocational Education and Training
ZATP              Zambia Association of Training Providers
ZAMIM             Zambia istitute of Management






ZAMBIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION VOCATIONAL & ENTREPRENEURSHIP TRAINING (TEVET)
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        3
2. Key performance indicators                                                           4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  11
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       17
3. Benefits and target population                                                      18
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       18
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            24
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    25
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         25
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            26
2. Financial                                                                           26
3. Technical                                                                           27
4. Institutional                                                                       27
5. Environmental                                                                       28
6. Social                                                                              29
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  30
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      31
2. Critical risks                                                                      31



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    32
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           32
2. Other                                                                             33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        3 3
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         34
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        51
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  53
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              69
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      72
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    82
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  84
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 86
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           88
Annex 11: Statement of Sector Policy                                                    90
Annex 12: Functions & Responsibilities of Zambian Institutions Involved in Training     97
(Public & Autonomous Providers)
Annex 13: Training Fund Analysis, Report Summary                                       104
Annex 14: Financial Management Action Plan                                             11l
MAP(S)
IBRD 26792R



ZAMBIA
Technical Education Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Development Program Support
Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTHI
Date: May 23, 2001                                 Team Leader: Patrick D. Murphy
Country Manager/Director: Yaw Ansu                 Sector Manager/Director: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project ID: P057167                                Sector(s): EV - Vocational/Technical Education &
Training
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment & Maintenance   Theme(s): Education
Loan (SIM)
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data    -:7
[ Loan       [X] Credit    [ 1 Grant     1 Guarantee      [1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 25
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0                                 Service charge: 0.75%
'Financing Plan (US$m): Source                                Local         Foreign         TotalX
BORROWER                                                        21.00           0.00          21.00
IDA                                                              5.00          20.00          25.00
DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE                      7.50           7.50          15.00
(DANIDA)
GERMAN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CORPORATION                          1.00           0.50           1.50
MIN. OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS / MIN. OF DEV. COOP. -                   5.00           9.00          14.00
NETHERLANDS
OTHER SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                               9.60           0.00           9.60
OTHER SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                     0.80           2.00           2.80
Financing Gap                                                    5.72           0.00           5.72
Total:                                                          55.62          39.00          94.62
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Address: P.O. Box 50464, Lusaka, Zamnbia
Contact Person: Ms. Eva Jhala, Permanent Secretary
Tel: 260 1 252411                 Fax: 260 1 252951                Email: psmstvt@zamnet.zm
Other Agency(ies):
DANIDA, Ministry of Foreign Affairs/Ministry of Development Cooperation-Netherlands, German Technical Assistance
Corporation
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
-- -s - sFY    %: s 2002  2003X    2004    -.2005 1"    006



Annual    2.10 1      6.55       8.45 |    6.50 |    1.40 |          l
Cumulativel   2.10       8.65      17.10      23.60     25.00
Project implementation period: FY 2002-06
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCSP DF-rm PFV MZvt. 2SC0
- 2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Background
Following years of decline, the Zambian economy grew modestly in 1996 and 1997. However, its gross
domestic product (GDP) declined by 2.9% in 1998 and grew by only 2.02 % in 1999 and by an estimated
3.47% in 2000. This was largely owing to the uncertainties around the privatization of the copper mines,
limiting inward investment and donor support, and a 25% fall in the price of copper. The last group of
mines has now been sold, and the economic projections for the next three years indicate an average annual
growth rate of 4.5%. While copper will remain critical for export earnings and basic agriculture will be
essential for subsistence for many Zambians, there are other areas of hope. High value agriculture and
agro-industries, tourism and specialized services have been identified as potential growth areas, and early
indications from these sectors suggest reasons to be optimistic.
An educated, well trained and flexible workforce is critical for this growth. Recently the Government of
Zambia (GRZ/Government), in collaboration with internal and external stakeholders, launched a program
aimed at increasing enrollment in the first nine years of basic education and improving learning outcomes,
particularly among rural and disadvantaged children. The Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational
Training (MSTVT) which has responsibility for developing Technical, Vocational and Entrepreneurship
Training (TEVET) has recently launched a similar reform process in order to improve the quality,
cost-effectiveness and demand relevance of training. MSTVT is responsible for training policy affecting
other line ministries offering training [(e.g. Schools for Continuing Education under the Ministry of
Education (MoE)] as well as the private "for profit" and voluntaTy providers and (until January 2000) was
also responsible for directly administering 23 training institutions. Currently, about 7,000 full-time and
about 2,000 part-time students are being trained in Government institutions (henceforth, Government refers
to the MSTVT institutions and the Schools for Continuing Education under the MoE) while approximately
15,000 more are being trained in private for-profit and voluntary-administered institutions (henceforth
referred to as private institutions, or providers). In addition, some large firms provide their own training
programs.
The Government has been faced with a tight budget situation which has in turn constrained its ability to
fund the training system. The limited government resources have mainly been used for staff salaries, while
investments in equipment and training materials have been negligible. The quality of training has been
declining, and salaries continue to be inadequate, thus lowering staff morale.
Private training providers face serious constraints, such as limited access to capital, lack of capacity to
compete with subsidized public providers, and higher fees to have students participate in examinations.
In terms of the public training system, thus far, there has been little involvement of employers and
consequently, public-provided training is not responsive to market demand.
Recognizing these problems, Government's plans for the training sector are radical: a new training
authority has been established and staffed, 21 of the 23 MSTVT institutions have been granted autonomy
under the supervision of management boards, and there is commitment to establishing a level playing field
for private providers. The reform process began in 1996 with Government issuing a policy document:
Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Policy (1996) that identified
the problems facing the economy and the training institutions and formulated a broad national policy on
- 3 -



training. Subsequently, Government produced a strategy paper: Strategy Paper for Technical Education
and Entrepreneurship Training (TE VET) in Zambia (1997) which provided strategies for implementing
the new policy and an action plan. Government then passed these reforms into law through the Technical
Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Bill, 1998. The Board of the Technical Education,
Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Authority (TEVETA) was constituted in mid-1999 and the staff
selected and appointed in early 2000. Management Boards for Training Institutions were established in
2000 in 21 (of 23) MSTVT training institutions and all of the staff of these institutions were provided with
their termination benefits. During 2000 and 2001, Government, through MSTVT, designed the TEVET
Development Program (TDP) to operationalize plans and to manage extemal financing for the sector.
Objectives
The program development objective is to develop a TEVET system that has the potential to improve skills
for both the formal and informal sectors of the economy through creating a high-quality, sustainable,
demand-driven, and equitable training system. Govenmment is reorienting its role from being both a
provider and financier of training to one in which its main roles are those of regulating, monitoring and
evaluating, and providing finance for demand-driven training. Government's role will be carried out
through MSTVT: TEVETA will implement policy under MSTVT and the training institutions will have
greater autonomy in providing training.
The development of a high-quality training system requires designing quality management information
systems; developing appropriate certification and examination systems; and building capacity at MSTVT,
TEVETA and in the training institutions to enable these stakeholders to perform their functions effectively
and be responsive to market needs.
The development of a sustainable training system requires a Government commitment to reform; the clear
demarcation of the roles and responsibilities of the various stakeholders in the provision, financing and
regulation of training; a realistic and logical program design and implementation strategy; and financial
mechanisms and strategies that target successful institutions, key skills and talented students and involve all
stakeholders in the design and implementation of the mechanism.
Demand responsiveness of the system will require enhanced participation by stakeholders, especially
through regular consultations between employers and training institutions; and designing financing
mechanisms in such a manner that providers of training are rewarded for becoming more responsive to the
needs of employers in both the formal and informal sectors of the labor market.
An equitable training system will require the provision of financial support that increases training
opportunities for female trainees and disadvantaged groups and that assists the TEVET sector in
supporting the national campaign against HIV/AIDS.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
In support of the overall development objectives, TDP will provide support to nine components: Overall
Program Management; TEVET Financing System; Organization and Management of TEVET; Training
Systems, Trade Testing and Examinations; Entrepreneurship and Informal Sector Training; Human
Resource Development; TEVET Information Systems; Infrastructure and Equipment; Gender, HIV/AIDS
and other Cross-cutting issues.
Ove rall program management will be supported through the establishment of a Program Steering
Committee (PSC) involving funding agencies and Government to approve annual work plans and budgets
-4 -



and a Program Coordination Office (PCO) within MSTVT to prepare these plans. An annual Stakeholders
Forum will also be supported.
The TEVETfinancing system will be strengthened through the establishment of a Training Fund, managed
by industry, TEVETA and Govemment. During the life of the project the Training Fund will test and
demonstrate the support for demand-driven training and demonstrate to employers the benefits to be derived
from financial participation in a Training Fund.
Organization and management of TEVET will be supported through strengthening TEVETA's
management, the enhancement of networking among those Government Ministries providing training, and
strengthening the management capacity of training providers themselves.
The Training systems, trade testing and examinations component will support TEVETA's quality
assurance functions, including curriculum development (in collaboration with training institutions),
inspection and examinations.
Entrepreneurship and informal sector training will be supported through short-term skills upgrading and
finding training for small- and medium-scale enterprises within the infonnal sector.
The human resource development component will build capacity within MSTVT, TEVETA and training
providers to implement the TEVET reforms.
TEVET information systems will be strengthened through support for the three main actors: MSTVT,
TEVETA and training providers. In addition, support will be provided to carry out labor market, tracer
and attitude surveys.
Infrastructure will be refurbished and equipment, including training materials, provided to all training
institutions meeting specific criteria. These will include the quality of current training provision as
assessed by TEVETA, assessments of market demand for new courses, and developed business plans.
Gender, HIV/AIDS and other Cross-cutting issues. The impact of HIV/AIDS on the supply of skilled
people will be assessed and a plan developed by MSTVT to join the national effort to combat the virus.
Information on HIV/AIDS will be provided to all trainees through the formal curriculum and through peer
group activities.
Gender equity will be supported through a plan developed and implemented following a situation analysis.
Gender mainstreaming will be implemented. Gender interventions will be incorporated within each
component.
Development Objectives               Key Perfornance Indicators (by 2005)
High-quality training system    Industry surveys show increased satisfaction with quality of
graduates from system.
Share of all training institutions inspected and registered, and
courses accredited by TEVETA is at least 90%.
- 5 -



Sustainable training system       Training Fund in place with Government, employers and donors
contributing.
Employers' attitude toward contributing to TEVET improves.
Total resources available for the training sector from the Borrower,
the private sector and trainees increased with the Borrower's
contribution constant in real terms.
Demand-driven training system     Fees from trainees constitute at least 50% of recurrent income for
more than 50% of formal institutions.
Industry surveys show increased satisfaction with graduates.
More than 50% of training institutions receive support for courses
from Training Fund.
At least 70% of graduates find employment within six months of
graduation.
Equitable training system         Share of TEVET graduates from poor and socially disadvantaged
groups increased by 10%.
Female graduates from TEVET programs increases by 25%.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDAIR99-156/1             Date of latest CAS discussion: 10/07/99
Based on consultations with civil society and Government's priorities as articulated in discussions within
the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) process, the CAS has identified three strategic areas:
removing constraints to sustainable, diversified growth; improving govemance; and increasing access to
basic services and direct poverty interventions. The CAS recognizes that policies and actions to strengthen
the business environment will assist in removing constraints to growth. In this regard, strengthening the
stock of knowledge and capacity-building are also vital for private sector development in Zambia. The
CAS states that given Zambia's need to diversify and compete on world markets in areas other than basic
commodity exports, capacity-building and knowledge generation are central to its growth prospects. This
and the changing structure of Zambia's employment, have lent increased importance to investing in people
in order to produce a workforce that has the flexibility to acquire new skills. The CAS proposes the
preparation of a training program, which will focus on the cost-effective provision of new skills in close
collaboration with all stakeholders. To support Government in facilitating the minimization of inequalities
in training, TDP will finance targeted interventions for poor and disadvantaged groups and encourage
greater involvement and participation of established national non-governmental organizations in skills
training delivery. Another issue on which the program will support the CAS goals is that of HIV/AIDS,
where the program will assist in raising awareness of HIV/AIDS through the Information, Education &
Communication (IEC) campaigns for trainees in the sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main goal of any training system is to produce graduates in a cost-effective and equitable manner, who
are employable in the labor market. However Zambia's public training system has not been very successful
- 6 -



in this regard. Studies carried out in the past and interviews with entrepreneurs/employers conducted by
staff and consultants over the past year, give the consistent impression that many employers are
uninterested in employing graduates from existing public training institutions and would instead prefer to
employ school-leavers (with good competence in reading, writing, and spoken English) and to train them
on-the-job by placing them alongside experienced workers. Some of the main factors determining this view
(as well as some other sectoral issues) are discussed below.
Training sectorfinancing
Underlying all the problems with the training system is the multi-faceted issue of finance.
Adequacy of Governmentfinancing. The Government has been providing declining grants to public
training institutions. Further, these institutions have often received much less than what budget allocations
would make them anticipate: over the past few years, institutions have received less than half of the grants
allocated to them in the annual budget. Lack of resources and the cash budget system currently in place
have, in large part, contributed to a situation whereby available resources are first provided for salaries,
next for grants in-aid and last for other grants including those to training institutions.
A recent study (1999) showed that -- not counting outlays on teacher salaries -- up to 90% of Government
grants to the larger public training institutions was going towards student welfare, mainly to cover catering
expenses.
On the other hand, there has been minimal cost-sharing. Hitherto, neither the students nor the private
sector has been required to contribute to the training costs. Some employers remain unconvinced that, in
the present circumstances, training institutions can provide high-quality and demand-relevant training.
Allocation of Government financing. Govemment financing is available only to public providers of
training. Private providers, some of whom provide better quality and more relevant training in certain
courses, cannot avail themselves of these resources. Public training institutions have no incentive to
respond to market demand as funding decisions are not based on such responsiveness. Finance is neither
targeted upon courses deemed to be in especially high demand, nor upon especially prioritized categories of
trainees. Finance is tied to inputs only, and yet it does not include equipment and pedagogical materials.
Transparency of Government finding mechanism. The mechanism that Government uses to decide on
funding between different providers is not linked to any performance criteria. Rather, Government's
input-based grant finance of public institutions occurs in an ad-hoc manner. Industry, training providers or
other stakeholders are not included in discussions about appropriate allocative priorities.
Sustainability of Govemment financing: Simulations have been conducted that attempt to match the
realistic cost ("model cost") of providing current courses for the entire system (in both public and private
institutions) and supporting current student numbers with the finances likely to be available based on the
assumption that: (i) Government support for financing training will continue at current levels; (ii) student
fees will be set at estimated market rates; but (iii) finance from a training levy will be insignificant over the
next few years. These simulations show a recurrent financing gap of about USD 23 million over the next
five years. If capital/developmental costs are included, the financing gap rises to over USD 60 million
over the same time period.
Demandfor skills in the labor market
Demandfor skills is changing. On the labor demand side, analysis of the household and establishment
surveys shows that Zambia's labor force grew rapidly in the 1990s, reaching close to four and a half
- 7 -



million by the end of the decade. Labor force participation rates are high, especially in the 25-64 age group
(close to 85%). While employment has been growing at close to 3% through most of the 1990s, with
formal sector employment growing at a slow pace, most of the incoming labor force has been absorbed into
the informal sector or into unemployment. Over this time period, unemployment rose from 11% to 15%.
Informal sector growth is concentrated in small-scale manufacturing, distribution and miscellaneous
services; and skills needs in this sector have been increasing. Recent needs assessment studies indicate that
informal sector entrepreneurs feel the skills shortage is a significant constraint on their operation.
Limited use of data on labor market demand and supply of training. Skill needs are difficult to estimate
in any country. The methods used include surveys and more qualitative information from contacts between
the training system and employers. Neither of these sources is used well in Zambia. In making decisions
on training, little use has been made of existing information on trends in labor market demand. The
capacity to analyze labor market information for use in decision making also seems to be lacking. While
the Central Statistical Office (CSO) conducts surveys at household and establishment levels, planners and
policy makers make little use of this information.
Supply of skills: the public training system
Government has traditionally maintained control over public training institutions through centralized
decision making. However, it has not been able to finance the system adequately. As a consequence, the
quality of training is poor. Apart from salaries, most expenditures go to food for the students.
The quality of training is poor. Institutions have even been unable to provide training of minimally
adequate quality. Classrooms and workshops are dilapidated and ill equipped due to insufficient
investment. Staff are poorly paid and motivation and productivity are low. There is no articulation of
qualifications across institutions. End-of-course examinations are administered by the Examinations
Council of Zambia (ECZ), and are mainly paper and pencil tests as institutions do not have the resources to
provide materials for practical skills examinations.
The only quality assurance procedure in place for private providers was the registration function which was
performed on payment of a fee of Zambian kwacha 77,000 to MSTVT and required an inspection visit.
This inspection visit did not always take place. While the Technical Vocational Teachers' College (TVTC)
in Luanshya is charged with responsibility for upgrading the pedagogical skills of instructors, the College is
underfunded and poorly equipped.
Management was centralized and provision was uncoordinated. Until the MSTVT institutions were
placed under autonomous management boards in early 2000, there were 23 institutions managed by
MSTVT -- each enrolling anywhere from 30 to over 1,000 students -- providing training for about 6,000
youths. All important decisions were taken by MSTVT in Lusaka, or in the case of examinations, by ECZ.
There was no meaningful local autonomy; institutions had to get approval from the center for hiring/firing
staff, changing courses and curricula and for any significant expenditures. The 14 Schools for Continuing
Education run by the MoE, which enroll about 1,000 individuals, face similar constraints. In addition to
MSTVT and MoE, the Ministries of Agriculture, Community Development and Social Services, Tourism,
and Youth Sport and Child Development also run their own training centers. There is little coordination
among these institutions although many are providing the same types of training.
Public training provision is not geared to the needs of the labor market. The training system was
established in the 1960s and early 1970s and has not adjusted to changes in the economic environment,
including the changes caused by privatization of the mines and shedding by Government of many of its
public enterprises. Many of the courses being offered in the institutes have been offered for the past thirty
- 8-



years, and were designed to meet the needs of the mining sector at that time and those industries serving
that sector. Evidence from tracer studies is lacking but anecdotal evidence indicates that many graduates
have difficulty finding employment. Employers complain that training is not responsive to demand.
According to the needs assessment survey, carried out in the mid 1990s, both formal and informal sector
employers identified the lack of demand orientation and the low quality of training provided at training
institutions as a major cause of skills shortage.
Supply of skills: the private training system
Private 'for profit" institutions cannot compete on a level-playing field. There is comprehensive
information on the size of private provision of technical and vocational training from a 1996 sectoral audit.
At that time private providers accounted for 67% of the 365 institutions included in the audit, 65% of total
enrollment (which was 18,258), and 62% of the 461 courses then being offered. In 2000 another survey
covered a sample of 50 private institutions of different types (private for-profit, non-for-profit, and
providers of in-service training). In 1996 the relations between training institutions and industry and the
community had been rated as weak. This registered significant improvement according to comparison with
the 2000 survey. But other conditions which had been identified as important problems in the 1996 study:
limited access to capital, lack of income from fees to finance the equipment and materials, MSTVT support
being confined to infrequent inspections, MSTVT registration records being poorly maintained, had not
improved. It even worsened in the case of MSTVT's registration service.
A recent study (1999) comparing costs of training in public and private training institutions found that
while unit costs in private training institutions were about 30% higher than those in public training
institutions: this was mainly owing to higher staffing ratios and greater spending on training materials.
Private "for profit" providers are increasingly competing against fee-paying training offered by staff
associations in public training institutions which use the income to augment teachers' salaries. These
training associations make use of the facilities, materials and equipment of the public training institution
while providing minimal compensation to the institution. Their fees are significantly lower than those in
private institutions. Preliminary estimates indicate that academic staff associations enroll around 4,000
students -- as compared to 6,000 Government-subsidized students.
Many non-profit providers are operating with limited resources. Church and other NGO-run courses tend
to be small, to teach practical skills at basic level, and to be more targeted on poor students. They depend
heavily on charitable sources for operating costs. Many can place some students in employment through
their links to local small-scale industry. Where employment is not available, some NGO providers support
the graduates to establish their own business. A large number seek recognition for their graduates and pay
registration fees.
Other issues
While the issues below are more relevant to the public training system, they also impact on the private
training system.
Applicants lack information on institutions and courses. Prospective trainees applying for admission to
public training institutions in July (having received their examination results in March), are interviewed in
specially designated centers but are provided with very limited information about the courses available. An
applicant can indicate two choices as to type of course but cannot designate location/institution. Places are
allocated in November. Very little information on course availability is offered. Applicants are not aided
by any published information on course offerings, entrance prerequisites, or training outcomes.
-9-



Little interaction between employers and the training system. Interviews with a large number of
employers indicate that many employers are not keen to employ graduates of the public training system.
Institutions do not provide any systematic follow-up of graduates. Similarly, the lack of any systematic
information on the quality of private training also does not allow employers to make informed decisions
when hiring individuals from private institutions. Employers depend on impressions from personal contacts
to assess institutional quality. Given the perceived poor quality of much training, employers are reluctant
to contribute towards training costs.
Marginalization of disadvantaged groups in training. Zambia's past emphasis on training for formal
sector employment has excluded many individuals from poor socio-economic backgrounds who have low
levels of education, from entering training institutions. Public sector training interventions for the informal
sector where the majority of these poor individuals are more likely and more able to participate have
generally been weak, inaccessible, and of poor quality.
Gender inequities in trainingprovision. Females, particularly those who are poor, have been marginalized
from most vocational training on offer. Low socio-economic family background, culture and the gender
stereo-typed tasks and occupations traditionally available to females constrain the range of training
accessed by females. No strong attempts have been made in the past to overcome the traditional gender and
institutional constraints on the access which females have to training.
HIV/AIDS. The high prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Zambia (19.7%) has serious consequences for the
training sector. As AIDS takes its toll on the productive adult population, the skill base needed for a
successful market economy is weakened. Due to HIV/AIDS there is a rising number of orphaned youths --
in year 2000 estimated to exceed 600,000 of whom 65% were aged 10-18 years. Training institutions
which in the past have sought especially to serve at-risk youth are not equipped to offer much help to these
rising numbers of orphans. Of course WlV/AIDS also affects the environment within training institutions,
causing much suffering and placing extra burdens upon staff and students.
Government response
Many of the problems mentioned above stemmed from the lack of capacity of MSTVT to run the system
effectively, monitor and evaluate training, and implement policies. Even though the system is relatively
small, MSTVT's capacity has been constrained by lack of adequately qualified and motivated personnel,
poor coordination with other relevant ministries and organizations, lack of linkages with the private sector
(both employers as well as private providers) and by serious financial constraints. Govemment has
recognized these problems and has for some years been fully committed to far-reaching reform. Since
1996, Government has been working with relevant internal and external stakeholders in revising its policy
on vocational education and training. Government has produced policy and strategy papers and a new
legislative framework was enacted in 1998. Subsequently, in mid-2000, Government formally established
the Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Authority (TEVETA). Two-thirds of
TEVETA's Board members are from industry, trades unions or NGOs. TEVETA has a co-ordination and
advisory role, providing technical assistance to all public and private training providers, and providing
relevant information to employers and students about institutions. In addition, TEVETA monitors
standards. Since its establishment, TEVETA has registered more than 200 institutions and has been
developing criteria in order to categorize each institution into one of three categories, with Category A
consisting of the most effective institutions. MSTVT retains authority for coordination of policy
formulation, for monitoring and appraisal of policy implementation and for the Management and
Information System.
- 10-



Government has transferred the control of 21 public training institutions to autonomous Management
Boards. The Boards are responsible for curriculum decisions, for ensuring the maintenance of training
standards prescribed by TEVETA, for administering the affairs of the institution -- including the finances,
and for providing such services as needed. Letters of appointment to the Boards were issued in early 2000.
Government has also established the Technical and Vocational Teachers College (TVTC) as an
autonomous institution but will continue to provide some support for its upgrading courses. All staff of the
MSTVT training institutions were removed from Government payroll from January 1, 2000 and received
their terminal benefits from Government during 2000. However, over a two-three year period, beginning
with 2000, Government has agreed to continue to pay the salaries of all of those staff opting to continue
working under the autonomous Management Boards. Once this period ends, previously public training
institutions will have to compete for finance on the basis of quality, cost-effectiveness and responsiveness
to demand. In short, Government is changing its role from that of a provider of training to being a
financier, regulator and coordinator.
Government is committed to continue to finance training and it is also expecting the private sector to make
a significant contribution towards training costs. Government initially intended to impose a training levy in
2001. Stakeholder consultations, however, indicated that this is not a feasible idea in the short-run. At a
seminar organized by Government at which a World Bank paper on global experience with training levies
was discussed, employers were uniformly skeptical towards Govemment's proposal to introduce a levy
scheme, both on grounds of Government's poor past record in implementing other levy schemes as well as
owing to the perceived lack of dialogue between the private sector and Government/public sector on the
modalities of such a scheme. Employers expressed their antipathy towards any form of training levy unless
Government would be able to demonstrate that the funds will be used in such a way that employers will
benefit (through improved quality and relevance of graduates of the training system) and unless employers
have a strong involvement in administration of the funds. Partly to convince employers of its serious
intentions, Government has determined to establish a Training Fund and to pilot modes of financing and
application. The role of the Training Fund will be critical in creating the conditions for the training system
to become financially sustainable. The objective will be to test and demonstrate the demand for, and the
effectiveness and efficiency of both pre-employment training as well as employer-based training supported
by a Training Fund.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
fhe TDP is designed to address all of the sector issues outlined in the preceding discussion.
The solution to the problem of under-funding is to establish a financing partnership between Government,
those who are trained, and employers as recipients of the trained graduates. The willingness and ability to
pay will determine the funds that can be raised from recipients' contributions. However, employers are
currently not willing to provide finance for the training system. Without their contribution, Government
does not have the resources to reform the system so that it would become attractive for the employers to
participate in financing -thus creating a "chicken and egg" problem ( see Annex 13). A Training Fund is
one means of solving this dilemma. Government will establish a Training Fund to be financed initially
through contributions by Government itself and from funding agencies but also, in the medium term, by
employers. The Fund will establish a transparent mechanism for supporting demand-driven training and
assist in creating a sustainable financing system. This mechanism will also be used to channel funds to
poor and disadvantaged groups. Employers will be involved from the beginning in managing the Fund.
The operation of the Fund will demonstrate to employers how their contribution, provided through a future
training levy, will be used to support high-quality and demand-driven training. In addition, Government is
committed to maintaining its financial support for training -- at least the current levels in terms of share of
discretionary budget.
- 11 -



The solution to the problem of mismatch between the supply of training and the demands of the labor
market is to provide institutions with the autonomy to respond to local and national demand and set their
own fees. The Program will also reward those institutions providing demand-driven training: initially
through a contestable fund for refurbishment and equipment and later through Training Fund support.
These funds will be open to private training providers and NGOs, as well as to former publicly-managed
training institutions.
The Program will also support Government's functions of management, accounting functions, and planning.
The Program will also strengthen TEVETA's function of coordinating training activities, contracting out
training, monitoring the standards of training institutions and providing technical assistance to training
providers. A major drawback of the current system has been the lack of information on the labor market
and the quality of training. The program will also build TEVETA's (and that of other relevant
organization's) capacity in the collection, management and monitoring of institutional and labor market
information and develop a mechanism through which this information is fed back to decision-makers. The
former MSTVT-managed institutions will find it difficult particularly to cope in the new environment.
Support will be provided to improve the capacity of training institutions to function within the new policy
framework. Formerly MSTVT-managed institutions as well as private sector will receive support in
designing and implementing business plans, in their financial management, and in developing
demand-responsive curricula. In addition, the Program will provide support to established non-formal
training providers (i.e. national NGOs, community-based organizations (CBOs), religious-affiliated
organizations) which have a proven track record in successfully reaching and assisting disadvantaged
groups to acquire skills in a cost-effective manner.
The Program will also assist institutions in changing the socio-economic and gender mix of trainees
accessing pre-employment courses in former MSTVT-managed institutions and in the private "for profit"
institutions. Talented but poor trainees will benefit through the Training Fund; and institutions will be
supported in efforts to recruit more female trainees to a wider range of courses than in the past.
The impact of HIV/AIDS on all aspects of training will grow. What the Program aims to do is four-fold:
(a) build up data on the impact of the virus on the supply of skilled people;
(b) attempt to increase awareness of the HIV/AIDS virus through integration of HIV/AIDS
information into training curriculum;
(c) encourage peer-support groups within all training institutions; and
(d) complement the national strategy for HIV/AIDS.
Finally, the Program will support GRZ's efforts to involve all stakeholders, to create partnerships with external
funding agencies, and to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of different aspects of the new system.
C. Project Description Summary
l. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
TDP will assist the reforms being proposed by Government through the following nine components: (a)
overall program management; (b) TEVET financing system; (c) organization and management of TEVET;
(d) training systems, trade testing and examinations; (e) entrepreneurship development and informal sector
training; (f) human resource development; (g) TEVET information systems; (h) infrastructure and
equipment; and (i) gender, WV/AIDS and other cross-cutting issues.
- 12-



As can be seen in the Program costs table below (details in Annex 3), TDP expenditures (developmental
and recurrent) during FY2002-06, will be approximately USD 94.63 million. The biggest component of
the progran is Infrastructure and Equipment at about 58% of total cost. The next largest item is the
TEVET financing -- about 17% of total cost.
TEVET Program Costs (USD millions), FY 2002-2006 (see footnote 1)
Indicative       Bank-      %o
ector   Co~ts  % ot    fianting 
1. Overall Program Management      VocationallTechn    4.26       4.5       3.95      20.0
(incl. MSTVT recurrent costs)   ical Education &
Training
2. TEVET Financing System          VocationaVTechn    15.30       16.2      9.43      47.7
ical Education &
Training
3. Organization & Management       Vocational/Techn    5.39       5.7       0.00       0.0
of TEVET                         ical Education &
Training
4. Training Systems, Trade Testing &    VocationaVTechn  2.15     2.3       1.30       6.6
Examinations (incl. TEVETA       ical Education &
direct costs)                    Training
5. Entrepreneurship Development &  Vocational/Techn    4.38       4.6       0.00       0.0
Infornal Sector Training         ical Education &
Training
6. Human Resource Development      VocationalfTechn    6.37       6.7       1.50       7.6
ical Education &
Training
7. TEVET Infornation System        Vocational/Techn    1.14        1.2      0.80       4.0
ical Education &
Training
8. Infrastructure and Equipment    Vocational/Techn    55.14     58.3       2.57      13.0
ical Education &
Training
9. Gender, HIV/AIDS & other        Vocational/Techn    0.50       0.5       0.23       1.2
Cross-cutting Issues            ical Education &
Training
0.0      0.00       0.0
0.0      0.00       0.0
0.0      0.00       0.0
Total Project Costs                  94.63     100.0      19.78     100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                   94.63      100.0     19.78      100.0
1. At the moment, USD 4.6 million of the proposed IDA credit is in reserve to be allocated across components.
USD 0.59 million has been set aside for reimbursement of the Project Preparation Advance.
- 13 -



It should be noted that the items under recurrent costs are not separate program components per se but
represent the operational costs of the restructured TEVET system.
Each component will contribute to the overall development objective through the following activities:
(a) Overall Program Management
This component will support the establishment of an overall PSC to approve annual work programs and
budgets and receive reports on TDP implementation. The membership will comprise MSTVT, TEVETA
Board Chairman and Funding Agencies. The PSC will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary. The PSC
will be serviced by a PCO in the MSTVT, which will coordinate the activities of the program and prepare
reports, including financial and work plans. Support will also be provided for an annual stakeholder
consultation which will consider reports, annual work plans and budgets and provide advice to the PSC.
The stakeholder consultation will be chaired by the Minister.
While many of the functions of the PCO can be performed by the current Directorates within MSTVT, it
will be necessary to designate a Program Coordinator and may also be necessary to employ technical
assistance to build capacity in the Ministry [e.g. in financial management and procurement, monitoring and
evaluation (M&E)].
(I) TEVET Financing System
This component will support the design, establishment and administration of the Training Fund. The main
objective of the Fund will be to test and demonstrate the demand for, and the effectiveness and efficiency of
both pre-employment training as well as employer-based training. It will test output-oriented modalities of
administering and disbursing funds; assess whether training can be more cost-effective and efficient when it
is demand-dnrven and training funds are competitively awarded between public and private providers; and,
through testing different modalities of private sector options for financing, demonstrate to employers the
benefits that can be derived from participating in such a fund. This will provide lessons on the mechanisms
through which the private sector will contribute to the financing of training in the medium-term.
The component will support the studies/consultancies necessary to determine the mode of operation,
funding windows and administrative structures for the Training Fund, and will provide finances for
technical assistance to run the fund in order to finance demand-driven training. Simultaneously, the
component will also support capacity-building in TEVETA in order for TEVETA to be able to operate the
fund within a period of 34 years.
(c) Organization and Management of TEVET
MSTVT is responsible for formulation, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of national policy of TEVET
while TEVETA is responsible for examinations, standards and all other quality-related issues, and training
institutions are responsible for the implementation of the reforms at the ground level. This component will
develop managerial capacity to coordinate the operation and financing of the system, provide support to
training providers to allow them to operate effectively in a demand driven training enviromnent, and
support TEVETA in building capacity to ensure that good quality training is provided and that there is a
practical national understanding of the new TEVET system among all the stakeholders.
Activities supported by this component will include strengthening TEVETA's managerial capacity through
TA and consultancies; enhancement of networking capabilities of other sector Ministries offering training,
through support for connectivity; strengthening of MSTVT's sector co-ordination capacity through TA and
consultancies; and strengthening the managerial capacity of training providers through support from a
"SWAT" team to visit colleges and assist the assessment of market-demand and the development of
- 14-



business plans. This component will also support policy review and implementation, including review of
the TEVET Act and sector policy. Finally, the component will support awareness raising and consultation,
analyzing current data on skills availability and advising Government on shortages and new directions; and
enhancement of understanding and appreciation of TEVET refonns among the general public.
(d) Training Systems, Trade Testing and Examinations
TEVETA's main roles include the regulation of training providers, monitoring standards of training
provision and providing relevant infornation on training to employers and potential trainees. This
component is designed to assist TEVETA to perform its functions more efficiently and to foster a healthy
and jointly consultative relationship between TEVETA and the institutions. The component will provide
assistance for curriculum development by the training institutions in concert with TEVETA and industry.
The component will also assist in building the capacity of TEVETA's inspections unit to assess training
facilities. The component will also support building up the capacity of TEVETA's examination unit to
enable it take over the administration of examinations from ECZ. Finally, support will be provided to
enable TEVETA to advise on the selection of institutions for refurbishment and equipment.
(e) Entrepreneurship Development and Informal Sector Training
Over 70% of employment in Zambia is in the informal sector. However, the training system is not geared
to meet the needs of this sector. Through this component, TEVETA will provide assistance to both public
and private training institutions in developing and implementing innovative approaches and ideas to training
services aimed at enhancing the dynamism and economic viability of the informal sector. These approaches
will include short-term skills upgrading, and funding small and medium enterprise and informal sector
training through intermediate institutions. By the end of 200 1, criteria will be developed to allow for the
selection of a set of training institutions that will support the implementation of the new approaches and
mechanisms for skills development.
While the Entrepreneurship and Informal Sector Development Unit (EISDU) in TEVETA will supervise
the implementation of this component and develop their own capacity in the process, day-to-day
responsibility for management and implementation will be entrusted to a team of experts with TEVETA
and other ministry staff operating as counterparts. The team will have operational autonomy. The private
sector and other key players will also be involved in implementation and, wherever possible, activities will
be outsourced to these and other competent institutions/consultants.
(f) Human Resource Development (IRD)
Government has recognized the critical shortage of capacity within Government itself and within TEVETA
and training institutions. Accordingly, Government has insisted on a separate component focused on
building capacity. Each level of institution (MSTVT, TEVETA and Training Providers) will be assisted in
developing decentralized, HRD plans as a part of a business plan at the level of the individual
organizations. Each level of institutions will be assisted in needs-assessment and development of HRD
plans. Initially, priority will be given to the needs-assessment of the TDP management (program and
financial) and of the co-ordination and implementation staff (MSTVT and TEVETA) while HRD
requirements of demand-responsive training institutions will be developed for each institution
demonstrating a commitment to meeting training demand.
(g) TEVETInformation System
The importance of M&E cannot be understated in the current environment. As Government develops its
plans for the sector, as TEVETA develops its services to institutions, as institutions build up the ability to
function autonomously, as the Training Fund is established, information and analysis are critical for
policy-making and extemal financiers. This requires a system that incorporates monitoring at different
- 15 -



levels (MSTVT, TEVETA, institutions) and of all aspects of Program implementation (intemal and
extemal efficiency, risk management, capacity building and poverty reduction.) Accordingly, this
component will support each level of institution in establishing a relevant information system for that
particular level. Implementation will take place in a phased manner - in the first phase (till the end of
2002) the construction of a 'minimum requirements' system to provide indicators that measure program
milestones will be completed. Based on this, in the second phase the TEVET information system will be
put in place including: provision and dissemination of accurate timely information, capacity building,
survey implementation, etc. While MSTVT has broad and ultimate responsibility for this component,
information systems will be put in place and managed at all three levels of institutions.
(h) Infrastructure and Equipment
Most of the former MSTVT-managed institutions have not been able to maintain buildings or purchase new
equipment since the 1970s. Private providers operate from rented, inappropriate-for-purpose facilities and
with limited equipment. TEVETA occupies a building designed more than thirty years ago. This component
will support the: (a) rehabilitation of TEVETA facilities; and (b) rehabilitation and provision of equipment
and training materials to institutions that can demonstrate they are operating in a demand-driven manner.
While there is a clear need for equipment, furniture, teaching materials and infrastructure in most training
facilities throughout the country, the PSC will develop criteria in order to support the rehabilitation of
institutions. Over time, these functions will be taken over by the Training Fund.
(i) Gender, HIVWAIDS and Other Cross-cutting Issues
The impact of HIV/AIDS on the supply of skilled people or the demand for training is not known. This
component will support studies to analyze the impact of the virus on supply and demand. The component
will also provide support through the funds available to support other components for training institutions
to introduce information on HIV/AIDS into the curriculum for training and, with other stakeholders, to
support peer-group meetings focusing on providing information and counseling on the impact of the virus.
The component will also support MSTVT efforts in the national effort to combat the virus. It is expected
that the bulk of the financing needed to support system-wide interventions will be available through the
multi-sector HIV/AIDS program, currently under discussion with Government.
To ensure that TDP ensures equitable access to training programs, this component will assist in the
development of a gender strategic plan and carry out a situation analysis of gender in TDP components and
suggest how gender can be better incorporated into these components. The component will support the
establishment and capacity building for focal persons on gender issues at all levels of institutions (MSTVT,
TEVETA, training institutions).
Over time, other cross-cutting issues will also be developed.
Program financing
The financing table below shows that over the next five years, Government would finance about 22% of
TDP expenditure, and other Zambian contributions (user fees, TEVETA, Industry) would finance another
10% of the program. Funding agencies will finance about 66% of program costs. There is a small
financing gap of USD 5.73 million, which is likely to be resolved as other donors contribute to the system.
Financing of TDP Costs FY 2002-2006 (USD millions)
Program Costs             Total    2001/2    2002/3    2003/4    2004/5    2005/6
Investment             60.82      6.50     15.00     16.92      14.70     7.70
- 16 -



Recurrent               33.81      6.77      6.76      6.76       6.76     6.76
Total Required Financing  94.63     13.27      21.76     23.68     21.46     14.46
Expected Financing
Zambia
Government (GRZ)      21.00     4.20       4.20      4.20      4.20      4.20
User Fees              7.10      1.42      1.42      1.42       1.42      1.42
TEVETA                 1.00     0.12       0.17      0.22      0.23      0.26
Industry               1.50                                    0.60      0.90
External Financing
Bilateral Donors      33.30      5.43      9.42      9.39       6.69     2.37
IDA                   25.00      2.10      6.55      8.45      6.00      1.90
Total Identified Financing    88.90  13.27     21.76     23.68     19.14     11.05
Total Financing Gap         5.73     0.00       0.00      0.00      2.32      3.41
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Govemment of Zambia has initiated a number of key reforms. (See Annex II for details.) The most
important are the establishment of TEVETA and the transfonnation of public institutions into autonomous,
demand-driven and self-managed training institutions. In addition some reforms supported by the Programn
will include:
(a) Governmentfinancing of TDP. Government is committed to maintaining its support to the
training system at least at the current level as a percent of both allocation and disbursement from
Govemment's discretionary budget. Govemment has also determined to stop paying salaries
directly to staff in formerly MSTVT-managed institutions. Thereafter Government
appropriations to training will be applied to TDP through the Training Fund.
(b) Training fund. Government has agreed to setting up a Training Fund to test different modalities
of financing training by 2002. The objective of the Training Fund will be to test and demonstrate
the demand for, and the effectiveness and efficiency of both pre-employrnent training as well as
employer-based training supported by the fund. In the short temn, resources to operate the
training fund will come from GRZ and funding agencies but over time industry is also expected
to contribute to the fund.
(c) Appropriate legislation. Govermnent has agreed to present appropriate legislation to Parliamnent
by 2004, outlining how the private sector (employers) will be expected to contribute to the
TEVET system. This bill will be designed and developed in collaboration with stakeholders,
especially the private sector.
(d) Supporting demand-driven training institutions. Government has agreed to develop a set of
objective criteria to be used to determine which institutions will receive funding from the
- 17-



Program in the short-run prior to the operation of the Training Fund.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
The Program has a number of benefits. First, more finance will be available for high quality training and
the amount will be more predictable and its receipt more reliable. Second, the training system will be
restructured to make it demand-driven, efficient and cost-effective: only those institutions that have these
characteristics will continue to be funded through the Training Fund and they will be fully autonomous. As
a result, the graduates of training institutions will benefit through more effective training and better access
to employment. The role of Government will also change -- from financier and provider of training to that
of selective financier, regulator and provider of information on training. Better M&E instruments and data
will provide policymakers, employers and students with up to date information on the quality and relevance
of different training programs. There will be increased access to training for poor and disadvantaged
students and greater gender equity, through special targeted interventions to increase females' participation
in skills training. Finally, there will be greater awareness of HIV/AIDS issues among trainees. The impact
of all of these reforms will be to remove one of the main constraints to economic growth in Zambia, the
availability of skilled people for critical areas of the economy.
Target population
The main target group will be trainees interested in pre-employment training and with the requisite entry
skills and qualifications who will be provided access to training opportunities and experiences that are
responsive to labor market needs, of good quality and likely to lead to employment. In addition, more
female and poor students with the relevant skills will be targeted. Employees will benefit from better
quality in-industry training and retraining.
Employers will benefit from the improved quality of those entering the workforce. They will also be more
directly involved in assessing skills needs, levels and provision thereby ensuring training is relevant.
Through their involvement in the management of the Training Fund and on Boards of autonomous training
providers, they will have a significant input into decisions on what training gets financed. The institutions
will also benefit: TEVETA will be aided in implementing its reform policies; MSTVT will be supported to
oversee the Program, improve planning and guide policy; and all training institutions, public, private and
NGO will be provided financial resources to enhance their overall effectiveness in providing skills training,
particularly to poor and disadvantaged groups, and will have autonomy and financial resources to make
decisions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional arrangements
Currently the three key institutions are MSTVT, TEVETA and training providers. MSTVT has recently
been restructured to incorporate four Directorates: Vocational Education and Training, Science and
Technology, Planning, and Finance. The Directorate of Science and Technology has no role in regard to
TDP, while both Planning and Finance serve TDP and also Science and Technology. The Directorate of
Vocational Education and Training is the key Directorate in regard to TDP.
TEVETA comprises the Director General and three main Directorates: Training Standards, Development,
and Finance and Administration. The Directorate for Training Standards has responsibility for inspection
and registration, the Directorate for Development responsibility for liaison with training providers and for
supporting management, while the Directorate for Finance and Administration will eventually service the
Training Fund.
- 18 -



Former MSTVT-managed training institutions have a Principal supported by a Director of Training and a
Director of Administration, reporting to a Management Board appointed by the Minister. However, each
training institution is now free to make its own internal arrangements as advised by the Management
Boards.
The TEVET Act of 1998 defines the functions to be performed by TEVETA, MSTVT, and the institutions.
(a) The functions of MSTVT include: making and monitoring sector policy; drafting and legislating
legal statutes for the training sector; budgetary facilitation; and establishment and closure of
training institutions and their management boards.
(b) The functions of TEVETA include: advisory assistance to sector stakeholders; regulatory
authority; and administrative support in specified areas.
(c) The functions of the Management Boards of Autonomous (ex-MSTVT managed) Training
Institutions include: training provision; development of cost recovery tools like tuition fees;
developing curricula; hiring and firing staff; and observing policy and regulations.
The functions listed in the Act are specific, and there are few major duplications or areas of confusion.
Two possible exceptions include: the role of MSTVT in policy adherence and TEVETA in training
standards; and the roles of TEVETA and training providers in curriculum development. Practical
accommodations are in place for each of these: currently, MSTVT monitors policy implementation through
TEVETA's inspectorate, and the national curricula are being developed by TEVETA (in consultation with
stakeholders) while the local curricula are being developed by training providers (also in consultation with
stakeholders and with TEVETA to ensure recognition.)
Implementation arrangements
The Program will establish two oversight committees - a Stakeholders' Forum and a PSC. The
Stakeholders' Forum will meet annually and its membership will include all stakeholders - trainees, private
and public providers, TEVETA, NGOs etc. The Forum will be chaired by the Minister. The Forum will
provide a venue to evaluate progress on implementation of TDP. The Forum will receive and discuss
annual work programs and budgets for the training sector as well as reports on implementation, and will
make recommendations to the PSC. The PSC will meet at least semi-annually with one of the meetings
preceded by the Stakeholders' Forum. The PSC will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MSTVT, and
will receive, discuss, alter, in the light of Forum comments, and approve annual work programs and
budgets. The Forum and PSC will be supported by a PCO within the Directorate of Vocational Education
and Training of MSTVT. The functions will include: preparing annual work plans; preparing financial and
management reports; disbursing funds to implementing agencies; and organizing the PSC and Forum
meetings. While many of these functions will be performed by current staff of MSTVT [financial reports
will be prepared by the Directorate of Finance, procurement reports by the Procurement Unit (PU) and
monitoring and evaluation within the Directorate of Planning)], it will be necessary to designate a Program
Coordinator and may also be necessary to employ technical assistance to build up capacity within MSTVT.
Implementation of TEVET will be the main responsibility of TEVETA and the training providers,
including industry. TEVETA will operate as an independent agency with its statutory authority and will
present budgets and work plans to the PSC for consideration and approval. In addition, TEVETA will
provide quarterly and annual progress and financial reports to the PSC. When TEVETA is procurement
accredited by the Zambia National Tender Board, it will carry out its own procurement. Individual training
providers have responsibility for providing training and are supported currently through finance for salaries
- 19-



of contract staff provided by Govemment and Recurrent Development Grants which are both inadequate
and unreliable. When the Training Fund is established, funds for training will be provided through the
Fund. The Fund will be located within TEVETA with a good deal of extemal support in its design and
initial functioning.
Financial management
Under the supervision of the Program Coordinator within MSTVT, the Finance Manager will be
responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures will be acceptable to
Government. the World Bank and other Cooperating Partners.
The principal objective of the TDP's Financial Management System (FMS) will be to support management
in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness
in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the needs of the people of
Zambia. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable
financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the Program's
overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
For the TDP to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its FMS will be developed in accordance with the
Financial Management Action Plan presented in Annex 14. Salient features of the Action Plan include:
(a) the retention of a Financial Management consultant to advise on the selection and installation of
the Program's FMS (using an integrated accounts package), to prepare the Program's Financial
Management and Procurement Manual (FMPM) and to train staff in the operation of the system;
(b) the establishment of a representative Financial Management and Procurement Committee;
(c) the recruitment of an internationally qualified Finance Manager and Financial Advisor;
(d) the availability of relevant qualified and experienced support staff;
(e) capacity building;
(f) the establishment of a Fixed Assets Register and a Contracts Register;
(g) separate Special and Kwacha Accounts will be operated and these will be reconciled monthly;
(h) quarterly reporting of financial information;
(i) cash flow management including variance analysis; and
(j) Program activities will be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Department (MOFED) and
an annual external audit will be undertaken on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
By credit effectiveness, the TDP will have in place an FMS that provides reasonable assurance it can
generate accurate and timely information as required by the Bank for PMR-based disbursements, i.e., the
Program Management Report. Thus, in the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the
Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e., Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special
Commitments. The successful implementation of the Program's FMS under the supervision of the Finance
Manager should facilitate the conversion to PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of credit
effectiveness. In that regard, a financial management review of the Program will be undertaken by a World
Bank Fine cial Management specialist within 12 months of credit effectiveness to assess progress and, if
necessary, to provide assistance to enable MSTVT achieve this objective.
Likely utilization of the Credit
- 20 -



IDA support is intended to assist the achievements of all the TDP objectives, and the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) is drafted in such a way as to enable IDA funds to be devoted to any of the components.
In order to reserve some of the IDA Credit to be used flexibly to meet needs for which the Government will
be seeking grant aid, not all of which may materialize, only USD 19.78 million (79%) of the Credit was
allocated at Negotiations to specific categories of new expenditure, with USD 4.63 million (19%) reserved
in the Unallocated Category and USD 0.59 million to be devoted to refunding the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) Advance. Initially, funds provided by the Credit are likely to be used mainly for the TDP
Program Management, TEVET Financing and Infrastructure and Equipment.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Some altematives that were considered but rejected were:
(a) A sector-wide approach or a traditional project? Zambia's current training system produces
graduates of poor quality, and the system is not cost-effective, sustainable or equitable.
Recognizing these problems, Government has launched an ambitious program of reform. One
mode for the Bank to support this reform would be through a project focused on targeted
components. This would have the advantage of ensuring that resources support the achievement
of key component objectives. The disadvantage of such an approach is that it would remove
ownership from Government and increase the risk of disagreements with its bilateral donors.
While support for a program also has risks (Government capacity is limited and critical
component objectives may thus not be achieved), Govemment and funding agencies consider that
bringing together Government and all major partners and stakeholders under a common sector
policy framework and medium term investment program will help to utilize resources
cost-effectively, rationalize sector targets, and promote Government capacity and leadership.
(b) Maintaining the financing status quo. Continuing the chronic under-funding will lead to the
decline of the already poor quality of the training institutions. Over time, the non-replacement of
depreciated capital and overuse of existing capital equipment will lower the capacity of each
training institution. Given the competing claims on scarce public funds, the long run may
witness the closing of institutions before they can demonstrate their ability to provide training, in
a cost effective manner, under a market-oriented system. Furthermore, maintaining the status
quo would not enhance the situation regarding private providers. Overall, this would also have
an adverse impact on the economy as the demand for skills will increase as growth picks up but
the supply side would not be able to respond effectively.
(c) Supporting the institution of a training levy vs. financing a training fund? Government has
committed itself to the instituting a training levy to ensure that the private sector makes a
significant contribution towards training costs. However, employers are resistant. Furthermore,
international experience shows that some prerequisites for implementing a levy scheme are not in
place in Zambia. For example, for the successful implementation of a levy scheme, it is crucial
that an effective administrative setup be in place both to collect and disburse the levy. Presently,
this may be difficult in the Zambian context. In addition, these schemes can have the effect of
subsidizing mainly the larger finns while also taxing the smaller ones. Given that at least 80
percent of employment is concentrated in small and medium-sized enterprises in Zambia, the levy
could have the adverse impact of dampening their growth.
Hence, TDP is establishing a Training Fund which will demonstrate how to establish transparent
accountable modalities for administering finance and include the private sector in the administrative
- 21 -



mechanisms. The Training Fund will test different modalities of administering and disbursing funds in the
first two years. Through testing different modalities of private sector options for financing, employers will
recognize the benefits that can be derived from participating in and contributing to such a Fund, which will
be crucial for the long-term sustainability of the Fund and the training system.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
...... . .. . l.e.                        roe t(P R                       aig
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Consolidate education services,     Third Education Project             U              S
provide facilities for secondary    (closed: 1983)
schools
Support administrative structure,   Fourth Education project            U              S
increase supply of middle & advanced  (closed: 1983)
level business graduates
Expand educational access in rural  Fifth Education Project (closed:    U              U
areas / Introduce junior secondary  1988)
schools
Arrest decline in quality, improve  Education Rehabilitation            S              S
access & strengthen management      Project (closed: 1998)
Poverty reduction, community        Social Recovery Project            HS              S
initiatives / Education component   (closed: 1998)
rehabilitates & expands
primary/secondary schools, skills
development
Poverty Reduction, community        Second Social Recovery Project      S              S
initiatives / Education component:  (closed: 2000)
primary school rehabilitation &
expansion; skills development
Increase access, particularly for   Basic Education Subsector          HS              S
children of poor / Improve quality of   Investment Program (active)
basic education
Create sustainable public service   Public Service Capacity             S              S
through building capacity of public  Building Project (active)
services managers & establishing basic
conditions
- 22 -



Community driven education       Zambia Social Investment Fund     S            S
infrastructure & services        (active)
Other development agencies
Danish International Development  Support for establishment of
Agency (DANIDA)                   TEVETA and for institutional
autonomy in two institutions.
Future support planned for
Applied Research, TEVETA,
TVTC and Training Fund
Netherlands                       Support for non-formal sector
through Entrepreneurship
Development Centres (and
planned for Training Fund)
Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische Support for skills training in
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)             informal sector
EU                                Skills training and capacity
building
JICA                              Support for Lusaka Vocational
Training Centre
Ireland Aid                       Support for Accountancy
Department of Evelyn Hone
College
FINNIDA                           Capacity building for
competency-based modular
training
Canadian International Development   Provision of tools to private
Agency (CIDA)                     training institutions
Department for International      Support for competency-
Development (Df[D)                based modular training for
construction industry
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
As is clear from the table, a good deal of externally-supported work is underway in the training sector. The
work on the Education Sector Investment Program (ESIP) has already involved most of the external
financing agencies supporting education and training in Zambia. While levels and detailed implementation
modalities remain to be finalized, external financing agencies are committed to the TDP and supportive of
the process. The Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), the Netherlands Embassy and
Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) jointly appraised the Program, together
- 23 -



with IDA and each is committed to assisting Zambia in the reform of its training system. While DANIDA
and GTZ will provide most of their support to particular components, finance from IDA and the
Netherlands Embassy can be used to support any of the components. All agencies have agreed to
participate in the semi-annual reviews (PSC meetings) and to target support within TDP.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Some lessons from the experience of previous projects in Zambia include:
(a) Coordination of external support. TDP will provide a vehicle for coordination of views on
policy, and external assistance, and is being prepared by a team of Government officials, with
regular periodic feedback from representatives of extemal funding agencies. As discussed, these
agencies are committed to supporting Govermment's efforts and have agreed to work within TDP
guidelines and to support TDP components. However, lessons from sector programs in
education include the importance of clearly differentiating Bank and individual donor
contributions and developing an agreed process for donor coordination. Accordingly, GRZ has
provided information on likely usage of the IDA credit.
(b) Needfor broad understanding of the policy framework. Based on the experience of other sector
reform programs, the following are important for success: (i) within Government, there should be
sufficient discussion between the political leadership and the technical staff, to ensure that both
parties' understanding of the policy and reforms is similar; (ii) there should be adequate
dissemination of the reforms; (iii) there should be appropriate technical expertise on the donor's
side; and (iv) partnership between Government and donors needs constant dialogue. The political
leadership of TDP has worked closely with officials throughout the design stage and IEC is an
important aspect of TDP. The Program management and coordination arrangements have been
designed to ensure regular dialogue.
(c) Support for institutional autonomy. An institutional analysis was conducted as part of project
preparation. Institutional capacity building should be an important aspect of any vocational
training program. In Zambia, MSTVT and TEVETA capacity to implement is weak. Hence a
good deal of attention is being paid within TDP to capacity building in planning and financial
management. Within training institutions themselves, TDP will build capacity to develop good
business plans and to assess and plan for demand-driven training. In the longer term, successful
decentralization to Management Boards will remove day to day decision-taking from the
Ministry, allowing officials to concentrate on monitoring and system regulation.
Some other lessons learned from implementation of Bank projects worldwide and reflected in the current
project include:
(a) Inclusion of program beneficiaries at an early stage. Encouraging better involvement and
consultation with stakeholders at all project stages builds broad-based consensus, thereby
improving project performance. This process is important as it promotes ownership among the
stakeholders and enhances transparency and the likelihood of sustainability. TDP is being
designed keeping this process in mind -- Government has involved the private sector, donors and
institutions in the design of the Program and all will continue to play important roles during
Program implementation.
(b) Improving the quality of monitoring and evaluation. Better information to employers and
prospective trainees about the availability and effectiveness of vocational programs promotes
relevance and cost-effectiveness among providers. Emphasis is being placed in TDP on
- 24 -



developing Govemment capacity to monitor and evaluate the training system.
(c) Promoting skills development among the poor and disadvantaged groups. Consistent with the
social objectives of the reform process, TDP will support the development of a pro-poor
financing strategy that targets direct support to poor and disadvantaged groups and that will
support the development of training programs focused on the informal sector.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
As stated earlier, Govemment signaled its commitment to a thorough reform of the sector by passing into
law the Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Bill, 1998, and enabling the act
through a Statutory Instrument in late 1998. Govemment then established TEVETA and placed individual
public training institutions under the control of management boards. Govemment's commitment is
underlined by the decision to downsize MSTVT and to move staff of training institutions from Government
service. All staff have now received their terminal benefits and while Govemment is continuing to pay
salaries to contracted staff, this will cease in 2-3 years. In addition Govemment has closely involved the
private sector in assisting with the design of the reforms and in the conceptualization of the training fund
and is committed to helping the private providers of training through access to the fund. Government has
further committed itself to maintaining financial support for the training sector as a share of the
discretionary budget. Finally, Government is establishing an annual stakeholders consultative forum,
involving all stakeholders, and a PSC with representation from the funding agencies.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The experience which the World Bank has gained in many countries through participation in sector-wide
approaches should be of particular relevance to Govemment's management and implementation of the TDP.
Education sector programs in Lesotho, Mozambique, Uganda and Ethiopia include vocational and technical
training within their purview. In Zambia, Bank experience with sector programs in agriculture, health,
basic education and roads have lessons to offer Govemment and funding agencies.
In regards to TEVET, the World Bank published its policy paper on vocational and technical education and
training in 1991. This laid out approaches that assist policymakers as they design strategies to ensure that
skills needed by the economy are being developed. The paper was based on the extensive experience that
the Bank had acquired over previous decades regarding investments in skills. The Bank has also acquired
considerable experience supporting training authorities and developing training funds in the Middle East,
Latin America and Africa. These expenrences will assist TDP implementation.
Also, in 2000, the Bank, in collaboration with the International Labor Office (ILO) conducted an in-depth
study of skills development in nineteen countries, including Zambia. This study distills lessons from
experience of these countries and suggests ingredients of success in vocational education and training
reform. This study finds that a prerequisite for successful reformers has been the political will to reform --
this is currently being demonstrated by Government in Zambia. Some of the other main lessons of this
study are being implemented in this project:
(a) the importance of the role of Govemment in facilitating informnation on vocational education and
training;
(b) ensuring competition between public and private providers in the delivery of training; and
(c) changing the role of Govemment from training provider to selective financier, regulator and
monitor.
- 25 -



In addition, as part of developing the Program, the Bank has worked with Government in organizing two
symposia where worldwide experiences with training reform and training levies respectively have been
presented by the Bank and discussed. Both these symposia have drawn together the main stakeholders in
the training system and exposed them to recent innovations and thinking worldwide on various issues
pertaining to training. Subsequently, two workshops were organized by Bank and DANIDA consultants to
brief employers and Government on international experiences with design and implementation of Training
Funds.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$0.55 million; ERR = 17 % (see Annex 4)
C Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The most recent CAS emphasizes knowledge generation as central to Zambia's growth prospects as it
diversifies and begins to compete on world markets. Both formal sector and informal sector employers
have indicated that a major bottleneck to improving efficiency and productivity is lack of skilled workers.
Employers also feel that training, especially that provided in public sector training institutions is not
relevant to their needs. While Government has traditionally maintained tight control over public training
institutions through centralized decision making, it has not been able to finance the training system
adequately. At the same time, while private providers are burgeoning (both for-profit and not-for-profit),
they lack access to capital, are competing with public providers, and the support they have been receiving
from MSTVT is limited to poorly maintained registration records and infrequent inspections.
The program attempts to remove these constraints and make the system more demand-driven, equitable and
cost-effective. The program is expected to:
(a) improve the likelihood of employment;
(b) lead to greater participation of the private sector in the financing of training;
(c) reduce costs of training through competition among public and private providers of training;
(d) assist in leveling the playing field between private and public training providers; and
(e) demonstrate the effectiveness of a Training Fund approach to the financing of training and
develop effective administrative and disbursement modalities for the fund in the Zambian
context.
While adequate data and information regarding the nature of the program impact are not available for
undertaking a precise cost-effectiveness analysis, it is possible to produce a set of cost-benefit analyses
based on assumptions, from within a realistic range, concerning economic growth and improvements in the
training system's intemal and external efficiency. Such analysis shows that the expected value of the rate
of return is 17%. In a low-case scenario, where the program significantly under-performs, the rate of
return is expected to be around 7%. However, in a best case scenario, the rate of return could be as high as
29%. Over the life of the program, several indicators will be developed within the monitoring and
evaluation system to measure cost-effectiveness.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 5.5 million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
A simulation exercise attempting to match the realistic cost ("model cost") of providing current courses for
the entire system (in both public and private institutions) on the one hand, and supporting current student
- 26 -



numbers, on the other hand, with the finances likely to be available shows that there will be a significant
shortfall in funds required to operate an efficient system. This model utilizes Govemment estimates of
finance available and estimates of student fees based on the realistic cost of training. The model excludes
the high costs of providing accommodation and food to students. It also assumes that contributions from
employers will not be significant over the next few years. While Government is expected to maintain
funding for TEVET at least at the present level (as a proportion of discretionary budget) over the next five
years, these simulations show a financing gap of over USD 60 million over the next five years (for
recurrent and capital costs).
This analysis shows that until the private sector begins contributing to training costs and training fees are
introduced to help recoup costs from those who are able to pay, donors may have a significant role to play
in supporting the TEVETA system. This Program is aimed at bridging this financial gap.
In the short-run (over the next five years), donors will primarily assist Government in bridging this gap.
Over the same period, as the quality and demand-relevance of training are enhanced, the contribution from
student fees is expected to rise. Simultaneously, the training fund is expected to demonstrate to employers
the benefits that they can derive from contributing to such a fund. Hence over time, contributions from
employers are expected to increase. Thus, as donor contributions to the sector begin to phase out -- student
fees and employer contributions are expected to rise and cover any financing gap in recurrent costs.
Fiscal Impact:
One of the aims of the project is to set up a self-sustaining financing system for demand-driven training.
As IDA and other donors phase out their financing of the sector, industry contribution to the system and
revenues raised from fees are expected to increase and close the financing gap.
3. Technical:
The most challenging technical task is the design of the Training Fund. A team of intemational consultants
supported by DANIDA and the World Bank has worked with Government and key stakeholders. Their
recommendations on location, management and funding "windows" are being considered by Government.
A second critical issue is the design of the criteria for funding new courses/rehabilitation in
demand-relevant institutions, especially in the short-term, while the Training Fund is being set up. These
criteria have been drawn up and are being discussed with Government. Modalities for ensuring that
institutions can be financed using these criteria are being developed.
A third important technical issue is the provision of support to training institutions in terms of business
plan development, assessment of local labor market needs, and reorientation to the reform process.
Experiences in other countries demonstrate that capacity building will be critical. The Program will
support institutions through providing them access to "swat" teams which will visit them and assist with
the assessment of market-demand and the development of business plans.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
MSTVT is Government ministry responsible for training in Zambia. MSTVT will oversee the
implementation of the TDP. Government has established TEVETA to oversee training and to monitor
standards. TEVETA will have a critical role in improving the quality of training delivered and in informing
- 27 -



potential trainees of course availability. Finally, each training institution now has responsibility for
assessing training needs and managing their affairs to ensure that they can deliver good quality,
demand-driven training.
4.2 Project management:
Oversight of all aspects of training in Zambia is the responsibility of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Science Technology and Vocational Training. The Pernanent Secretary will be supported by a specially
appointed PCO headed by the TDP Program Coordination Office (PCO) and comprising TDP component
managers. Financial management and procurement are being administered through specially-designated
staff within the Program Coordination Team (PCT). Guidance on overall implementation will be provided
by a PSC comprising representatives of Government, employers, training providers and external financing
agencies. All aspects of training quality, regulation of institutions and examinations will be handled by
TEVETA. Delivery of training will be the direct responsibility of the training institutions, monitored by
TEVETA. Financial support for work on M&E will be provided through MSTVT.
4.3 Procurement issues:
In the past, all procurement was carried out by the Procurement Department within MSTVT. The
assessment of procurement capacity rated the unit as fair to satisfactory, except in planning. However, the
overall risk rating was high because the department had limited experience with Bank procedures. For
TDP, it is envisaged that this department will be augmented to plan and guide all procurement funded by
the Program. In particular, it is envisaged that technical assistance and training will be provided. The
department has already developed the Procurement manual for TDP. Much of the actual procurement
process will be conducted by TEVETA and the training institutions themselves. Funds will be provided to
training institutions to support new training programs. Purchases utilizing these funds will be carried out
by institutions themselves in accordance with the Procurement manual and training will be provided by the
Procurement Department within MSTVT.
4.4 Financial management issues:
While a Special Accounts Section will manage the finances of TDP and maintain records and accounts,
disburse funds and provide reports, it is envisaged that some finance will be provided directly for training
institutions themselves to administer. These are legally established entities and are currently maintaining
Bank accounts and providing reports. The TDP Financial Management Operations and Procedures
Manual will spell out how the funds will be transferred and the basis for accountability and reporting.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Sunmarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The majority of investments to be financed under the Project focus on skills training and capacity building.
Only a limited number of works are envisaged from which no adverse environmental effects are expected.
On the contrary, the Project may indirectly generate positive effects through the Cross-cutting Issues
component. Under this component, in fact, GRZ intends to conduct an EIA and to introduce, where
possible, environmental awareness elements in the curricula of most programs by 2003.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timcline and status of EA:
- 28 -



Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Many disadvantaged individuals, including the poor, females and unemployed youths between the ages of
15-24 years lack access to training. TDP proposes to finance training interventions that are more
socially-responsive and equitable. A social assessment was carried out as part of Program preparation
with the purpose of informing the process of how to make training interventions more socially-responsive
and equitable. The assessment focused on identifying the poor and disadvantaged groups in training,
including their needs, practices, and preferences and the bamrers that have excluded them from
participating in order to determine what the TDP must do to effectively reach these groups to meet their
needs in training and increase their productivity. It also investigated means through which this group could
be assisted.
The assessment showed that the social risks associated with TDP can be mitigated through transparent
program implementation, mechanisms for continuous social assessment and impact monitoring, and
innovative skills training. To ensure that the poor and disadvantaged group are served, TDP will include
support for training geared to the needs of the informal sector as well as special measures to give students
from poor backgrounds access to high-quality training opportunities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders have been involved in the development of TDP and will remain involved during program
implementation.
Stakeholders                    Preparation                                  Implementation
Employers       Through workshops, employers were consulted    Private sector is represented on TEVETA Board and on
(formal sector/  on TDP by MSTVT and their views taken into    Management Boards of former MSTVT-managed
informal sector)    account. Their views on Training Fund and  institutions. It will also be involved in the design and
training levy have been reflected in program  management of Training Fund. Finally, it will
design                                     participate in the annual Stakeholders' Forum.
Training Providers   Have been consulted and views solicited on  Will be regularly consulted in developing and updating
(public/private for    main impediments to providing high quality  criteria to choose demand-driven training providers.
profitlNGO)      and demand-driven training. Interventions to  Involved/assisted in implementation of TDP -- especially
assist training providers have been developed  M&E and capacity building components of program.
taking these views into account            ZATP (and member providers) will participate in annual
Stakeholders Forum.
- 29 -



MSTVT/         Designed and developed the TDP            Will have main role in policy review and overall TDP
Other Ministries                                            management. Will prepare annual work plans and
budgets and implement Monitoring and Evaluation.
TEVETA         Close consultations on design of TDP and  Will have main role in implementing TDP as monitoring
views reflected in TDP                   and regulating agency. Chairman will be on PSC.
Students       Consulted informally through visits to training    Will participate in annual Stakeholders Forum. Will
institutions                             benefit from all components of program. M&E
component will be designed to ensure information on
courses, fees and internal and extemal efficiency
indicators of institutions will be provided in a more
effective manner.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultations are systematically being carried out with non-Governmental organizations, including other
members of civil society as part of the overall preparation process to identify areas for collaboration during
the implementation phase, including the institutional/administrative arrangements and operational
mechanisms that will be required. The participation of NGOs and other civil society organizations
involved in training, is particularly important to the process of developing targeted interventions in support
of training opportunity for the poor and other disadvantaged groups. These stakeholders will assist in:
(a) conducting outreach and promotional activities aimed at mobilizing greater participation of poor
and disadvantaged groups in training;
(b) the development of appropriate and equitable targeting mechanisms for training; and
(c) providing skills training, while also participating in the monitoring of outcomes.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
A social assessment, including relevant studies on NGO/private training providers, has been completed.
The assessment shows that the social risks associated with TDP can be mitigated through transparent
Program implementation in which mechanisms for continuous social assessment and social impact
monitoring are put in place and innovative skills training interventions are developed in order to improve
the participation of poor and disadvantaged groups.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The Program will monitor the access of poor and disadvantaged groups to training.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, HP 4.01, GP 4.01)                    O Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                            0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                             0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                               0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                           0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                            0 Yes * No
- 30 -



Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              C Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Program will comply with all applicable Bank policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Resources available for training have been inadequate and sustainability will depend critically on
Government's ability to involve employers, trainees and Government itself in the financing of a
demand-driven system. TDP is addressing this by clearly specifying a continued role for Govemment in
the financing of training, increasing cost-sharing from the trainees, and developing mechanisms to
demonstrate to the employers the benefits of contributing to the training fund. In the short-term,
Government, bilateral donor, and IDA finance will be provided to support training initiatives through the
Training Fund and the employers will be involved in managing the fund. This will ensure that the
mechanisms for allocation and utilization of funds are transparent and efficient. As the Training Fund
gains credibility, Govemment and employers will finalize their discussion of the modality for contributions.
As employer financing increases, IDA funding will be gradually withdrawn.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourdt column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government does not maintain financial     N         Govemment's Statement of Sector Policy
support to the training sub-sector.                  clarifies its role in the financing of the sector in
the medium to long-temi.
Inadequate dissemination of the reform     M         Dissemination activities/seminars occur on a
process to stakeholders.                             regular basis, especially during early stages of
the Program.
Employers unwilling to participate in      M         In collaboration with employers, the Program
Training Fund.                                       will identify and finance a limited number of
sectoral pilot projects in order to assist in
demonstrating the viability and importance of
employers contribution to the fund.
Furthermore, projects financed through Training
Fund will be responsive to demand.
Private providers are not able to access   M         Financing mechanism including Training Fund
funds.                                               being designed to enable private providers to
access funds
From Components to Outputs
- 31 -



MSTVT, TEVETA and training                 S        Technical assistance will be provided to
institution are not adequately skilled to           MSTVT in order to strengthen its capacity.
implement and monitor the refonm                     TEVETA will also be assisted in executing its
process.                                            functions through TA support, staff
development, provision of equipment and
hardware. Training institutions will be
supported through a "SWAT team" and training
at TVTC
Interventions do not target the            M        Govemment will be assisted in developing
poor/disadvantaged.                                 mechanisms/critenra to identify and target the
poor/disadvantaged.
Training Fund is not put in place.         M         Government has committed to the establishment
of the Training Fund. Assistance is being
provided to make decisions in developing criteria
on funding formula and allocation mechanisms
and criteria under which industry/occupational
sector-based training programs will be
supported.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Government has committed itself to the reform process, including withdrawal from direct training
provision, and demonstrated its willingness to take tough decisions through the downsizing of MSTVT and
the termination of Government contracts for staff of training institutions. However, it has to face the
difficult decision of what to do when some of the former MSTVT-managed institutions fail to establish
themselves as autonomous training providers. The ability to withstand political pressure to intervene and
"save" these institutions by providing additional finance or supporting salaries will be the key challenge in
moving towards a demand-driven, high quality sustainable training system.
Another controversial aspect is the industry's reaction to a training levy. Segments of the private sector
remain firmly opposed to the levy, as they feel that this is an additional tax burden on them and that they
will not be able to benefit from contributing this levy. A challenge for Government will be to use the
training fund to demonstrate to private employers, the benefits of participating in and contributing to the
training system (whether through a levy or some other means).
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)  The Borrower has adopted the Program Implementation Plan and Program Operations Manual in
form and substance acceptable to the association.
(b)  The Borrower has appointed the members of the Program Coordination Team (PCI), the
Program Coordinator and the Finance Manager on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association; the Borrower has furnished to the Association terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Association, for the employment of at least one procurement specialist.
(c)  The Borrower has established an accounting and financial system satisfactory to the Association.
- 32 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement conditions
(a) In regard to Grants for Subprojects MSTVT has established criteria satisfactory to IDA for
allocating funds for training and training support services.
(b) In regard to Bursaries MSTVT has established criteria satisfactory to IDA for allocating funds
for Bursaries.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C] I. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
X 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
At appraisal, the Association reviewed the:
(a) draft Program Implementation Plan
(b) draft Program Operations Manual
(c) Program financial information system
(d) work plans for program components
;. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[X1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Patrick D. Murphy                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                   A
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Cou       anagerlDirector
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ZAMBIA: Technical Education Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Development
Program  Support Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Removing constraints to    1. Increased average earnings 1. Tracer study reports  Government implements
sustainable diversified growth of TEVET system graduates                          Poverty Reduction Strategy
and improving              (incl. women and                                       (PRSP) and maintains
socio-economic productivity   disadvantaged), either                              commitment to privatization
employed or self-employed by
2008
2. Increased GDP           2. GRZ Economic statistics
3. Increased business start-ups 3. Industiy surveys
4. Improved productivity of   4. GRZ economic bulletins
SMEs/ informal sector
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Skilled human resources    1. Of the TEVET graduates   1. Tracer studies, compared   1. Graduates access better
produced for Fformal and   during 2004 and 2005 who    with 2000 baseline study   paid jobs because of their
informal sectors by a demand  gain employment, at least                           new skills
driven TEVET system that is  70% do so with a time lag of
sustainable and promotes   less than 6 months from
equity                     course completion
2. During 2004 & 2005      2. Tracer study reports and    2. Employed graduates remain
increased number of job    Labor Market surveys       working in Zambia
vacancies filled by TEVET
graduates
3. 60% of industries surveyed  3. Service delivery surveys of  3. Other complementary
annually express satisfaction  industry               projects are meeting targets
with quality of human
resource produced
4. At least 50% of the formal  4. Institutions Financial  4. Climate for industrial
training institutions meet 50% Records                development remains positive
of their budgets from own
resources by Jan 2005
5. More than 50% of training 5. M&E reports
institutions receive support for
courses from Training Fund
6. 60% of a sample of     6. Client Surveys
clients of self employed
graduates are satisfied with
goods/services
- 34 -



7. Share of TEVET graduates 7. Tracer study reports
from the socio-economically
disadvantaged groups
increased by 10%
8. Female graduates from non 8. Tracer Study reports
traditional TEVET programs
increased by 25%
9. Employability of TEVET    9. Tracer Study reports
graduates is better than a
control group of similar
non-trainees
10. Share of courses          10. TEVETA reports
approved by TEVETA rises to
90%
11. Total resources (from      11. TEVETA and Training
Borrower, private sector,    Fund management reports
trainees) available for TEVET
increased, with Borrower's
contribution constant in real
terms
Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Program  preconditions I  I. Program ready to start on 2  1 . Pre-Conditions document  Continued political backing for
activities completed         July 2001 with preconditions                                demand-driven training
described in document
"Pre-Conditions" already
achieved
2. TDP Programn Management    2.1 Program Steering Committee 2. PMT progress reports     Graduates are pro-active in
System established and       (PSC) in place & operational by                             seeking jobs in Zambia
operational                  July 2001
2.2 Program Financial                                      Economic growth is achieving
Management System established                              GRZ predictions of least 4% p.a
by February 2002
2.3 Program Management Team                                Population growth remains stable
established. & fully operational                           (currently 3.1% p.a.)
by October 2001
2.4 Preparing Annual Work Plans                            Policies developed are approved
(AWP), Budget and Status                                   by Cabinet
reports
- 35 -



3. TEVET Financing System     3.1 TEVET Fund established and 3.1 Guidelines & procedures  TEVET Fund guidelines are
established (Training Fund)   operational by September 2002.  documents. Annual reports on    tranparent and easily accessible
Available training funds     administration and disbursement
accessible to providers with good of funds, including analysis of
business plan.               fund recipients by institutional
3.2 Mechanisms for cost sharing  type.
schemes established by       3.2 Guidelines documents
December 2004
3.3 Legislation on Training Levy
passed by 2004
3.4 Bursary Scheme setup & in  3.3 Levy Bill
use by 2003
3.4 Recipient agreements
4. Organization &            4.1 Stakeholders' consultation    4.1 DVET report of meeting  Political stability is maintained
Management of the TEVET    conducted annually through to
System strengthened          2005                                                        TPs/ Instructors are willing and
4.2 First review of TEVET Act  4.2 Review document         able to use the new curricula
accomplished by 2002                                       Bursary scheme is administered
4.3 Policy Monitoring &      4.3 M&E reports               equitably
Evaluation System established &
in use by 2001                                             MIS used by TPs & Industry
4.4 Understanding and        4.4 Awareness program reports  TPs & Institutions accept the
appreciation of TEVET enhanced                             importance of cross-cutting issues
by September 2003                                          in TEVET
4.5 MSTVT reviews Sector     4.5 Policy review report
Policy every three years                                   TPs accept and promote
4.6 Managerial capacity of   4.6 Managerial capacity report   entrepreneurship training
TEVETA strengthened by                                     programs
December 2002
4.7 MSTVT's Sector coordination 4.7 Coordination capacity report
capacity strengthened by
December 2002
4.8 Networking capacity of sector 4.8 Networking capacity report
ministries enhanced by June
2002
4.9 Managerial capacity of
training providers strengthened 4.9 Managerial capacity report
by December 2002. Twinning
arrangements in place.
Registered training institutions
accessing funds produce annual
business plans.
- 36 -



5. Training Systems, Trade   5.1 Examinations             5.1 Examiners list
Testing, Examinations,       Examiners appointed and trained Revised syllabi & continuous
Apprenticeships, Inspections  by December 2003            assessment documents.
Registrations & Accreditation    New Assessment System
Systems Improved             developed by March 2004.
5.2 Curriculum Development: 63
Course Programs used by training 5.2 Program renews.
providers revised by Dec. 2002,  Evaluation reports.
10 new demand driven course  vlaonrpts
IOnwdmn. hvncus    Certification & accreditation
syllabi produced by July 2003, 30  certio
Curricula evaluated by July 2003, documents.
73 Programs certified and
accredited by regional (SADC)
and international bodies by 2002,
200 Institutional CDs trained by
July 2003.
5.3 Apprenticeship: Legal   5.3 Framework document.
Framework for apprenticeship    Apprenticeship contracts.
amended by June 2003, 3000  Training document.
apprenticeship contracts through  Contacts list.
30 participating companies by
December 2003, 200 Master
Craftsmen tramed in teaching
skills by July 2003.
Establish contacts with regional,
International bodies dealing with
Apprenticeship Training by
November 2001.
5.4 Trade Test: New Trade Test  5.4 Trade Test regulations
Regulations and Standards    document.
established by 2002. New Trade  Trade Test procedures document
Test Level System established by
2002.
5.5 Distance Vocational Training: 5.5 DVT regulations document.
DVT Regulations prepared by    M&E reports.
2002
DVT System established by 2002
5.6 Employment Based Training: 5.6 M&E reports.
Employment based training    Consultative list.
strengthened by 2002
5.7 Inspections, Registrations and 5.7 Accreditation documents.
Accreditations.              Registration documents.
Local and foreign consultation    Review documents.
system/linkages established by
2001. 200 Institutions accredited
by July 2003. 300 TEVET
Institutions inspected and
registered yearly from 200 (at
least 90% of total by 2005).
300 TEVET Institutions
categorized and reviewed
annually.
- 37 -



6. Entrepeneurship and Technical 6.1 60% of TEVETA registered  6.1 Course documents
Skills Training System for the    Training Providers have
informal sector developed and   introduced components of
promoted.                    Entrepreneurship training by
2004
6.2 A system for easily accessible 6.2 Pilot report.
market driven training delivery   Marketing report.
established and operational by
2003
6.3 Networking among surt   6.3 Guidelines documents & pilot
service providers developed and  schemes review
marketed by 2003
6.4 TEVET graduates opting for
self employment are referred to
relevant service providers
7.1 Staff development needs
7. Comprehensive & sustainable  assessment carried out in at least 7.1. HRD plan and M&E reports
HRD of TEVET developed &     50% of registered institutions
implemented.                 and HRD plan which is gender
sensitive developed and
operational by December 2002.
Staff development programs
based on needs assessment on
offer nationally.
7.2 750 trainers updated &   7.2 M&E reports
upgraded in technical courses &
pedagogical skills by April 2004
7.3 Training of Trainers program
focused on continuous        7.3 Evaluation reports
professional development
institutionalized in 3 Training
Institutions by 2002
- 38 -



8. Effective and efficient MIS  8.1 Conceptual Framework for
developed & installed.        TEVET MIS developed and       8.1 Consultancy contracts
adopted by stakeholders by 2001  Workshop reports
8.2 Phase 1 MIS operated and
maintained at TEVET Ministries,
TEVETA, and 20 training       8.2 Status reviews
providers by 2002
8.3 Phase 2 TEVET MIS
operated and maintained at 30
Training Provider Sites by July   8.3 Status reviews
2003
8.4 MIS tracer reports of
graduates (incl. Women &
disadvantaged) produced in 2004 8.4 Tracer reports. TEVET
and 2005. Studies conducted to  system internal efficiency
examine internal efficiency of    studies.
TEVET system.
Physical Infrastructure for  9.1 Physical infrastructure   9.1 Contract for consulting
Training and Support Services   requirements involving      engineer. Prioritization plan.
upgraded.                     rehabilitation, refurbishment and
construction for TEVET System
analyzed and prioritized in a plan
by December 2001
9.2 Prioritized areas for
rehabilitation and construction    9.2 M&E reports
completed by December 2005
9.3 Prioritized areas for
refurbishment including       9.3 M&E reports
acquisition of tools, equipment,
books and training aids
completed by 2005
9.4 Preventative Maintenance
System developed and in use by   9.4 Maintenance schedules
June 2004
- 39 -



10. Gender, HIV/AIDS and      10.1 Strategy developed for    10.1 M&E reports
other Cross Cutting Issues    gender mainstreaming.
program developed &           Strategy developed to counteract
implemented                   negative effect of HIV/AIDS on
supply of skills.
Issues of a cross-cutting nature
(eg Environmental Protection,
Occupational Health, HIV
AIDS) are where possible
included in the curricula of most
Programs by 2003.
10.2 Public Training facilities
and infrastructure provided &  10.2 Guidelines documents
accessed by both sexes & by
disabled 2005
10.3 Awareness on cross cutting
issues conducted by December   10.3 Awareness program reports
2004
10.4 Crossing cutting issues  10.4 Implementation report
incorporated into TEVET       andGuidelines documents
planning by December 2004
10.5 Counseling in Cross Cutting  10.5 Counseling reports
Issues conducted by December
2004
10.6 Environment Impact       10.6 EIA document
Assessment (EIA) conducted by
2001.
10.7 Develop and Implement    10.7 M&E reports
Assessment Program for Women,
Poor, Rural and Disabled by
December 2004.Higher
proportion of poor and
disadvantaged trainees in the
system.
10.8 Targeted Equity Based    10.8 Implementation repolt
Programs (EBP) implemented By
December 2004
Project Components t          Inputs: (budget for each       Project reports:               (from Components to
Sub-components:               component)                                                    Outputs)
1. TDP Program Management $ 4.26                             TDP Financial Mgmt reports  Continued Govt support for a
(including MSTVT recurrent                                   Program Supervision Reports  demand driven training
costs)                                                                                      system
2. TEVET Financing System   $ 15.3                           TEVETA Annual Report           Recurrent funding is available
established (Training Fund)                                                                 and timely (GRZ & MoFED).
Private sector accepts a
trairning levy & the
administrative arrangements
3. TEVET management.          $5.39                          TEVETA Annual Report           Staff who are identified for
institutional strengthening are
available for training
- 40 -



4. Training Systems, Trade   $ 2.15                  TEVETA Annual Report       Sufficiently qualified CDs are
Testing and Examinations                                                        available.
(including TEVETA direct
costs).
5. Entrepeneurship        $ 4.38                     EISDU Report               Qualified staff are available or
development and Informal                                                        can be trained to instruct in
Sector training.                                                                new or upgraded courses
6. Human Resource         $ 6.37                     PCO Report                 TPs and industry accept TDP
Development.                                                                    changes
7. Management Information   $ 1.14                   PCO Report and TEVETA    Information for MIS is readily
System.                                              Report                     made available
8. Physical infrastructure.  $ 55.14                 PCO Report                 Donor funding is available
and timely
9. HIV/AIDS and           $ 0.5                      PCO Report                 Line ministries accept
Cross-Cutting issues.                                                          implementation arrangements
& decisions
Total Program Support     $ 94.63
-41-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ZAMBIA: Technical Education Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET)
Development Program Support Project
Background
Recognizing the many problems facing the training sector, the Govemment issued a policy document:
Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Policy (1996) that identified the
problems facing the economy and the training institutions and formulated a broad national policy on
training. Subsequently, the Government produced a strategy paper: Strategy Paper for Technical
Education and Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) in Zambia (1997) which provided strategies for
implementing the new policy and an action plan. The Government then passed these reforns into law
through the Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Bill, 1998. The Board of
the Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Authority (TEVETA) was constituted
in mid-1999 and the staff selected and appointed in early 2000. Government divested itself of 21 (of a total
of 23) MSTVT training institutions early in 2000 and established Management Boards to run these
institutions.
Objectives and process
The principal objective of the TDP is to develop a high quality, sustainable, demand driven, and equitable
training system for Zambia. The objective will be achieved through supporting the new institutions and
modalities established by Government. The Program development objective is to develop a TEVET system
that has the potential to improve skills for both the fonnal and infonnal sectors of the economy through
creating a high-quality, sustainable, demand-driven, and equitable training system. Government is
reorienting its role from being both a provider and financier of training to a system in which its main roles
are those of regulating, monitoring and evaluating and the provision of financing for demand-driven training.
Government finance for training is inadequate but cannot be sustained at higher levels than are currently
available. Governnent plans to maintain its commitmnent to training and allow institutions to charge
economic fees for some courses. In addition, Government plans to levy industry to support training.
However, industry is reluctant to provide support to the sector in the current circumstances. Accordingly,
Government is seeking finance from a group of external and intemal financing partners, including the
World Bank, DANIDA, the Netherlands Government and GTZ. These will provide support for many of
Government's proposed actions.
The World Bank is providing assistance to support the Government's program, which consists of the
following components: (a) Overall Program management; (b) TEVET Financing System; (c) Organization
and Management of TEVET; (d) Training Systems, Trade Testing and Examinations; (e) Entrepreneurship
Development and Infonnal Sector Training; (f) Human Resource Development (g) TEVET Information
Systems; (h) Infrastructure and Equipment; (i) Gender, HIV/AIDS and other Cross-cutting Issues.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$4.26 million
Overall Program Management
The overall responsibility for implementing the TEVET Development Program (TDP) lies with the
Ministry of Science Technology and Vocational Training (MSTVT). The main objective of the Overall
Program Management component is to support efficient and effective program management as well as
monitoring the implementation of TDP at all levels of the system.
- 42 -



This component will support the establishment of a Program Steering Committee (PSC) to oversee the
administration of TDP. The PSC will have representatives from MSTVT, the TEVETA Board, employers,
workers and donor organizations. The functions of the PSC will be, inter alia, to assess and approve
annual work plans and budgets and to convene an annual stakeholders forum. The PSC will meet twice
each year. A Program Coordination Team (PCT) will comprise the Permanent Secretary, MSTVT, the
Director-General TEVETA and the component coordinators for each of the TDP components. The
functions of the PCT will include supervising TDP implementation.
The PSC and PCT are supported through a PCO located within MSTVT. The office will be led by a
Program Coordinator and staffed by financial, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
specialists. The PCO will consolidate work plans, prepare financial and management reports, disburse
funds and arrange procurements.
Project Component 2 - US$15.30 million
TEVET Financing System
Current situation. The Training Fund is expected to address the three major problems with government
financing of the current training system:
Inadequacy. Government has been providing declining grants to public training institutes over the recent
past. Not counting salaries, 90% of govemment grants are going towards student welfare - mainly
catering expenses. Further, there is very little cost-sharing with the students or with the private sector.
Inappropriateness. Financing is available only to public providers of training; and institutions have no
incentive to respond to market demand as funding decisions are not based on demand-responsiveness. Nor
is financing targeted on certain prioritized courses or categories of trainees. Finance is not provided for
training equipment and teaching materials.
Non-transparency. Mechanisms used to decide on funding between different providers are not linked to any
perfommance criteria or on whether institutions are responding to demand. In decisions on allocative
priorities, the discussions involve neither industry, training providers, nor other stakeholders.
Objective. The main objective of this component is to establish a TEVET Fund that will finance training in
a manner that supports demand-led training in Zambia. The TEVET Fund will consist of a number of "
recurrent" funding windows, including a pre-employment and apprenticeship window, an SME / informal
sector training window and possibly an in-service training window. An Investment funding window will
also be established to fund the capital and human resource upgrading costs of the new TEVET system.
Initially, the GRZ and donors will be the main contributors to the Fund and learners will pay fees. Given
private sector resistance to a training levy, the Ministry has provided an extended period to consult the
private sector and investigate altemative options for industry to contribute to the Fund, including the
feasibility of introducing a training levy.
Intervention and implementation. Fund implementation will begin with establishment of the
Pre-employment and Investment Funding Windows. The design and establishment of the other funding
windows will follow. MSTVT will propose the restructuring of the TEVETA Board, a management
contract to govem the relationship between the MSTVT and TEVETA, and a constitution to govem the
conduct of the TEVETA Board and to govem the GRZ's direct funding of TEVETA's operational costs.
These decisions can be implemented parallel to process of establishing the Fund. The priority is to begin
disbursing funds for training from the Pre-employment funding window. Accordingly, Fund establishment
- 43 -



will begin in July 2001. First disbursements are scheduled for March 2003. A user fee policy and
guidelines should be available by November 2002. Two investigations are proposed to inform the decision
on the mechanism for industry to contribute to the Fund. The first focuses on funding options other than a
levy, while the second will investigate the feasibility of a training levy. The private sector will be directly
involved in this process through a Consultative Committee. The studies will be undertaken during 2001,
debated, and "reasonable" consensus between government and the private sector will be reached by
mid-2002. This will allow the time to design the funding mechanism, receive the necessary approval within
Government and to establish the mechanism in 2004.
MSTVT is ultimately responsible for all money in the Fund. TEVETA, through its Board and Office, will
be responsible for establishing and managing the Fund. Initially training institutions will be the only direct
recipients of funds from the Pre-employment funding window, but the range of recipients will be extended
once other funding windows are established. The ultimate beneficiaries of the Fund will be learners who
may be pre-employed, unemployed, under-employed, self-employed and employees. Two separate
consulting firms will be appointed to establish and to manage Fund operations in TEVETA for a defined
period of time. To ensure that there is TEVETA staff capacity eventually to run the Fund independently, a
small core of Fund staff will be appointed before establishment begins. Once the second consulting firm
has stabilized Fund operations, it will assist TEVETA with the recruitment of the balance of the TEVETA
Fund staff and with the development of their capacity. It is envisaged that the consultants will hand over
operations to this staff in 2005. An external evaluator will be appointed to review the work of the two
consulting firms.
Success measurement. Performance indicators include:
(a) Analyzing training agency expenditure and a range of training costs to monitor efficiency levels
(b) Number and type of institutions supported by the Training Fund (number)
(c) Employer satisfaction with the Training Fund.
Project Component 3 - USS 5.39 million
Organization and Management of TEVET
Current situation. Inadequacies in the current vocational education and training system are well
understood and adequately documented. TEVETA was established following Enactment of the TEVET
Bill in 1998 and the Authority appointed a chief executive and senior staff early in 1999. TEVETA has
rapidly developed and is now beginning to make a visible impact on the system. The profile of the new
TEVET system must be enhanced and tangible changes must quickly become visible at institutional level.
The lack of managerial and infrastructural management capacity in training providers presents a very
serious -risk to delivery of quality training.
Objective. The objectives of this component are to develop a national awareness of the new TEVET
system, to review overall policy, implement new policies and to build capacity in the appropriate line
ministries, TEVETA and the training providers.
Intervention and implementation. TEVETA will publish a quarterly Newsletter beginning in the third
quarter of 2001. It will also mount a national publicity campaign utilizing such media as print and radio
and will host public meetings at strategic sites throughout the country. In addition, stakeholders
consultations will be conducted annually. The outcomes of these will be reported to PSC for action as
appropriate. The TEVET Authority considers that the Act needs to be amended, particularly in the area of
the balance of the Authority's membership. It will set up a committee to examine this in 2001. Several
- 44 -



other Govemment Ministries provide training in institutions which are or will be registered by TEVETA.
Networking between MSTVT as the lead ministry in TEVET and the other providing Ministries will be
developed utilizing the Management Development Division in the Cabinet Office. Furthermore, a short
term contestable fund will be designed to develop infrastructural development in a small number of
institutions, works arising from this will begin in early 2002. In addition, a two man consultancy team
(SWAT team) will work with providers and their management boards to assist them in the development of
business/strategic plans. This would last for about two years. Providers have begun to organize
themselves into an Association (ZATP). This organization has published a draft constitution. ZATP will
be supported as the providers' voice with Govemment and TEVETA.
Success measurement. Performance indicators include:
(a) Number of institutions assisted through contestable funds
(b) Number of institutions assisted in the preparation of business plans
(c) Number of institutions with viable business plans
(d) Enhanced role of ZATP.
Project Component 4 - US$2.15 million
Training Systems, Trade Testing and Examinations
Current situation. This is a vital component in that it is at the qualitative heart of the entire TEVET
system. TEVETA is unambiguously responsible for regulation of and quality assurance for the total
training provision. Since its establishment in 1998, TEVETA has accomplished much in its short lifespan.
It has overhauled institutional registration from a largely nominal operation to a rigorous inspection
process. It has defined progression paths up to technician/technologist level. It has established
methodologies for grading institutions into quality categories; and it has mapped out for itself an aggressive
work program which will impose on it very significant burdens if it is to reach its stated objectives. There
is at present a lack of clarity as to how the various grades of craft qualification will relate to each other.
Objective. The objective of this component is to develop TEVETA's and the training institutions' capacity
to reach their stated objectives, to create a healthy consultative dialogue between TEVETA and registered
institutions, and to provide teacher training/development initiatives in support of the new TEVET system.
Intervention and implementation. Institutions will be assessed for registration and inspection reports will
be issued. They will be accredited to offer specified courses. A gazette of registered institutions will be
promulgated. Curricula will be developed, syllabi reviewed and specialists will be trained in all these
activities, both at central and local level. Apprenticeship will be reintroduced, overseas accreditation will
be sought for some qualifications and a distance vocational training activity will be initiated. Various
models of teacher training will be designed and offered both at selected institutions and at the Luanshya
Vocational Teacher Training Centre, with DANIDA support. The examination function will appropriately
be moved in its totality from ECZ to TEVETA. This component is concerned with quality enhancement
and assurance.
Success measurement. Performance indicators include:
(a) Numbers of institutions accredited and registered
(b) Success in curricula development
(c) Improvements in teacher training.
- 45 -



Project Component 5 - US$4.38 million
Entrepreneurship Development and Informal Sector Training
Current situation. The training system has, in the past, ignored entrepreneurial skills since the system was
designed to meet the needs of the formal sector as perceived in the late sixties. The TEVET policy provides
for the incorporation of entrepreneurship training in the curriculum in order to prepare the trainees for both
wage employment and self-employment.
Objective. The objective of this component is to assist training providers in designing and offering
skills-training programs targeting the infornal sector operators, and to incorporate entrepreneurship
training in TEVET in order to improve the quality of the goods and services of the sector.
Intervention and implementation. TEVETA will conduct national sensitization of providers through
provincial seminars, electronic and print media, develop training materials/packages based on TEVETA
curricula, train additional trainers in entrepreneurship and orient trainers to new training
materials/packages. The capacity for Micro and Small Enterprise skills training will be developed through
curriculum and training materials; in-service workshops for selected trainers/instructors; introduction of
courses for instructors who wish to specialize in entrepreneurship training; and research, publications and
consultancies in the field of entrepreneurship. Furthermore, the Program will support the establishment of
Entrepreneurship Development Centers (EDCs) in 7 provinces by 2005.
While TEVETA will supervise the implementation of this component and develop their own capacity in the
process, day-to-day responsibility for management and implementation will be entrusted to a team of
seasoned experts including international consultants, with TEVETA and other ministry staff operating as
counterparts. The team will have operational autonomy. The private sector and other key players will also
be involved in implementation and, wherever possible, activities will be outsourced to these and other
competent institutions/consultants.
Success measurement. Performance indicators include:
(a) 7 EDC's established by 2005
(b) Capacity for entrepreneurship training and informal sector training enhanced.
Project Component 6 - US$6.37 million
Human Resource Development
Current situation. The declining resources for training have had a negative effect on capacity throughout
the TEVET system over the past few decades. The Government has recognized the critical shortage of
capacity within the government itself and within TEVETA and training institutions.
Objective. This component aims at building the human resources capacity in the training sector. The
government intends to develop and implement a gender sensitive comprehensive human resource
development strategy for TEVET to enable staff in the sector cope with the demands of a market
responsive training system.
Intervention and implementation. Each level of institution (MSTVT, TEVETA and Training Providers)
will be assisted in developing decentralized Human Resource Development (HRD) plans as a part of a
business-plan at the level of the individual organizations. Each level of institutions will be assisted in
needs-assessment and in developing HRD plans. Initially, priority will be given to the needs-assessment of
the TDP management (program and financial) and of the co-ordination and implementation staff (MSTVT
- 46 -



and TEVETA) while HRD requirements of demand-responsive training institutions will be developed for
each institution which demonstrate a commitment to meeting training demand. Local and foreign
institutions capable of upgrading staff capacity of TEVET managers and administrators will be identified
and engaged to execute the training programs. It is anticipated that 200 managerial and administrative
staff will be trained by December 2003 and 750 trainers will be updated and upgraded in technical courses
and pedagogical skills by April 2004.
Success measurement. Performance indicators include:
(a) Needs-assessment for MSTVT and TEVETA completed by end 2001
(b) HRD plan for MSTVT and TEVETA completed by September 2002
(c) Needs-assessment and HRD plans for selected Training-Providers implemented by 2004.
Project Component 7 - US$1.14 million
TEVETInformation Systems
Current situation. Currently, little information is being collected on the labor market and training
providers or graduates, and what is being collected is not analyzed. There does not exist any monitoring
and evaluation system that incorporates monitoring at different levels and of different scope (for example,
economy wide, institutions, MSTVT and TEVETA level) which can measure aspects of program
effectiveness (intemal efficiency or cost effectiveness, external efficiency, risk management, capacity
building, poverty reduction, alleviation of market failures and imperfections).
Objective. The Program will support the development of an information system which will play several
roles: gathering, validating, analyzing and disseminating data and information on the labor market and
TEVET system; providing key inputs for decision making in training institutions and firms, and producing
a set of indicators to monitor progress in implementation and TDP's socioeconomic impact. This will
require a system that incorporates monitoring at different levels (MSTVT, TEVETA, institutions) and of
all aspects of Program implementation (internal and external efficiency, risk management, capacity building
and poverty reduction).
Intervention and implementation. This component will support each level of institution in establishing a
relevant information system for that particular level. Implementation will take place in a phased manner -
in the first phase (till the end of 2002) the construction of a 'minimum requirements' system will be
completed in order to provide indicators that measure Program milestones. Based on this, the second phase
of the TEVET information system will include: provision and dissemination of accurate and timely
information, capacity building, survey implementation, etc.. While MSTVT has broad and ultimate
responsibility for this component, information systems will be put in place and managed at all three levels
of institutions.
The sub-components of the information system include: (a) monitoring implementation milestones; (b) M &
E system; (c) MIS; (d) mobilizing stakeholder participation; (e) developing tools development to support
other components; and (f) evaluation of TEVET information system.
The system provides M & E indicators for all stages of the Program, over the life of the Bank support and
beyond. The stages in the design and implementation of the Program are as follows:
(a) conception and design of M & E system, complying with best practices from Quality at Entry
(QAE) reviews. This stage includes work done by the co-financiers at and before the Joint
- 47 -



Appraisal (Jan. 2001), and preparatory work by all stakeholders and the GRZ (June 2001);
(b) tracking achievement of progress milestones in implementation of all Program components in the
first year of the program (2001-2002);
(c) monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the Program, in conformity with best practices
at project supervision reviews (2001-2006); and
(d) developing key performance indicators (KPI) to measure (i) intemal efficiency & input
indicators, (ii) output indicators, and (iii) impact & outcome indicators (2001-2006).
While the first set will be activity specific, the second and third will be broad based. Apart from providing
inputs for M & E, the KPI will assist stakeholders in program implementation. The output/outcome KPI
will be reported at annual or semi-annual intervals, and may be changed/modified by the Program Steering
Committee (PSC) or by Bank supervision missions. The KPI are to be developed in consultation with
co-financiers and stakeholders.
Success measurement. Performance indicators include:
(a) Obtaining all information needs, systems design (hardware and software) and construct survey
instruments by December 2001
(b) Preparing first Monitoring and Evaluation report by June 2002
(c) Holding stakeholder review of the TEVET Information System by July 2002
(d) Reviewing progress regularly in PSC and PSO meetings.
Project Component 8 - US$55.14 million
Infrastructure and Equipment
Current situation. Due to lack of capital investments in the training sector, buildings and infrastructure
services have deteriorated, while appropriate equipment and tools are missing or available only in
insufficient quantities. The lack of proper tools and teaching materials in most institutions has been
recognized as one of the reasons why training at present is inadequate.
Objective. The objective of this component is to provide the means to improve and extend the TEVET
learning and teaching environment (equipment and facilities) as part of the overall development objective of
creating a high quality training system in order to improve the skills for both the formal and non formal
sections of the economy and to establish a Physical Asset Management System for future planning and
maintenance purposes.
Intervention and implementation. An accelerated program for the first half of the TDP will assist
approximately 40% of the existing training providers with tools and teaching materials to provide the
opportunity for institutions to improve quality of instruction, extend training course programs and to
prepare institutions for operating in a competitive environment. The TEVET Authority will rehabilitate
their building to create an efficient working environment. In the second half of the TDP, when the
mechanisms for appraising business plans have been established, support to positively appraised training
institutions will receive support for the realization of their training plans -- with funds for rehabilitation,
new construction, equipment and technical assistance. A Physical Asset Management System will be
developed and established for planning and maintenance purposes in those institutions receiving funds for
rehabilitation and equipment.
- 48 -



A specialized Procurement Unit (PU) will be established as part of the TDP responsible for procuring
goods, works and services. The Unit will (a) assist training institutions to properly specify requirements,
(b) in the appraisal of requests and proposals from the institutions, and (c) procure the goods for
institutions which are unable or not allowed to procure.
With external assistance, the TEVETA and the PU will prepare a proposal for approval by the PSC, which
will define the criteria, type of assistance, and the procedures for the accelerated program component.
TEVETA will inspect the institutions and institutions which meet the criteria and which are allowed to
apply for this program component. TEVETA will assist training providers to prepare training plans, while
the PU will assist with technical documentation. The TEVETA/PU appraisal committee will appraise and
approve the plan and the PU will set the procedure for tendering, procurement and payments.
TEVETA building rehabilitation. The PU will hire a consultancy firm to prepare the plans, cost estimates
and tender documents for the rehabilitation or new construction of the TEVETA office building. The
tender process will be according to GRZ/WB regulations; and a contractor will execute the works,
supervised by a consultant engineering company.
Main physical infrastructure and equipment program component. Rehabilitation and new construction
programs can be awarded to training institutions whose business plans have been appraised positively. The
training institutions are responsible for specifying courses, equipment and rehabilitation and/or new
construction requirements. The PU will assist the institutions with updated relevant specifications and
costs for the equipment component and the training institutes can make a request to the PU to hire an
architectlconsulting-engineering firm to prepare sketch plans and cost estimates for the construction works.
TEVETA/PU appraisal committee will appraise the plan proposals and the PU will set the tender,
procurement and payment procedures. The Consultant (hired by the Institute and paid for by PU-tri-party
contract) will prepare the tender documents for approval by the PU, while contractors will execute the
works supervised by consulting engineers.
Physical asset management system. The PU will hire a consultant to develop proposals for a physical
asset management system at institution level. The proposals will be prepared in close collaboration with
the relevant departments of TEVETA (management and capacity building) and with the PU. The system
will be part of the overall management plan of the institution and enables the institution to manage assets
and plan annual and long-term operational costs (e.g. electricity, water, repairs, maintenance and
replacements) and set fee levels accordingly.
Success measurement. Performance indicators include:
(a) Initialphase: (i) first plans prepared by training institutions approved before month 7; (ii) first
contracts for procurement of tools signed with training institutions before month 9; (iii) 50% of
the initial budget allocated before month 12 and 100% by month 18; (iv) first tools and teaching
materials supplied before month 12; (v) 50% tools and teaching materials supplied before month
18; and (vi) 100% by month 24.
(b) Main phase: (i) 100% of funds allocated; (ii) first phase training institutions completed
(infrastructure and procurement of equipment); (iii) 80% of the assisted training institutions
maintain physical asset management system; (iv) first phase training provided in physical asset
management. The timelines for all these milestones will be specified by late 2001.
- 49 -



Project Component 9 - US$0.50 million
Gender, HIVIAIDS and Other Cross-cutting Issues
Current situation. The TEVET Development Program should take account of the impact of the pandemic
on the supply of and demand for skilled workers. The 10,000 or so young people participating annually in
training programs need information and education about prevention of HIV and care for those suffering
from AIDS. MSTVT has appointed a HIV/AIDS focal point and TEVETA will shortly do the same.
With respect to gender, many girls and women in Zambia have been excluded from most skills training
opportunities.
Objective. A major objective is to support the national effort to combat HIV/AIDS through better
information and peer group support. A subsidiary objective is to assist training institutions to develop
HIV/AIDS contingency plans.
With regards to gender, TEVET policy states that skills training will be an instrument for the minimization
of inequalities among people. This component aims to mainstream gender issues in decisions about training.
Intervention and implementation. The component will support studies to analyze the impact of the virus
on supply and demand of skilled labor. The component will also provide support for training institutions to
introduce information on HIV/AIDS into the curriculum. In cooperation with stakeholders, it will support
peer-group meetings which provide information and counseling. The component will also support
MSTVT's part in the national effort to combat the virus. It is expected that the bulk of the finance needed
to support system-wide interventions will be available through the multi-sector HIV/AIDS program,
currently under discussion with Government.
Tlhis component will also assist in the development of a strategic plan for improved gender equity, and will
carry out a situation analysis of TDP components and suggest how gender can be better incorporated into
these components. The component will support the establishment and capacity building for gender focal
persons at all levels of institutions (MSTVT, TEVETA, training institutions). This component will also
assist in the establishment of a Gender Issues Steering Committee, involving key stakeholders.
Success measurement. Performance indicators include:
(a) development of comprehensive workplan on HIV/AIDS
(b) curriculum revised to reflect HIV/AIDS education
(c) development of comprehensive strategic plan on gender
(d) focal points on gender appointed
(e) steering committee on gender appointed
(f) more gender balance in enrollments.
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ZAMBIA: Technical Education Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Development
Program Support Project
1. Overall Program Management (incl. MSTVT recurrent costs)  4.26          0.00          4.26
2. TEVET Financing System                                   15.30          0.00         15.30
3. Organization and Management of TEVET                      5.39          0.00          5.39
4. Training Systems, Trade Testing & Examinations            2.15                        2.15
(incl. TEVET direct costs)
5. Entrepreneurship Development & Informal Sector Training   4.38                        4.38
6. Human Resource Development                                6.37                        6.37
7. TEVET Information Systems                                 1.14                         1.14
8. Infrastructure & Equipment                               55.14          0.00         55.14
9. Gender, HIV/AIDS and Other Cross-cutting Issues           0.50          0.00          0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                         94.63          0.00         94.63
Physical Contingencies                                      0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                         0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs               94.63          0.00         94.63
Total Financing Required               94.63           0.00        94.63
'~ :.n' IiII .'
1. Goods                                                       0.00           2.28          2.28
2. Works                                                       0.00           1.00          1.00
3. Consultant Services and Audit Fees                          2.00           0.00          2.00
4. Training Grants                                             0.80           8.70          9.50
5. Staff Development and other Training Costs                  2.00           0.00          2.00
6. Bursaries                                                   1.00           0.00          1.00
7. Operating Costs                                             2.00           0.00          2.00
8. Unallocated (see footnote 1)                                0.00           4.63          4.63
9. Refunding of PPF                                                           0.59          0.59
Total Project Costs      7.80          17.20         25.00
Total Financing Required       7.80          17.20         25.00
Note: At this stage only the use of the IDA credit can be meaningfully allocated by category. The local vs.
foreign breakdown is very tentative in the second table and impossible to attempt in the first, until more
information on other donors' allocations by category is available.
1/    Will probably be mostly used for non-training components -- M&E, capacity building and technical
assistance.
Bank's share of cost and the effect of taxes and duties
The Bank's cost sharing ratio. The percentage of the total project cost excluding taxes and duties, is 100%
for the project but less for the costs of the larger sector program. The latter includes cost sharing by the
government, the private sector, and other donors. The financial summary in Annex 5 provides numbers for
the larger program and shows how the program becomes self-financing at the end of the implementation
period.
- 51 -



No taxes are imposed at the stage at which goods, works, and services of domestic and foreign origin are
being acquired by the project.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 94.62 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 26.42% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 52 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ZAMBIA: Technical Education Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET)
Development Program Support Project
1. Background
[This analysis is based on a background paper which is available in the project documents.]
TDP is the Government's Program to reform its vocational education and training system. The first five
years are envisioned as a first phase of a long-term Program of capacity building, policy development, and
financing of the VET system that would lead to a system which is responsive to demand & to private sector
plans, cost-effective, and equitable.
The most recent CAS states that given Zambia's need to diversify and compete on world markets in areas
other than basic commodity exports, capacity-building and knowledge generation are central to its growth
prospects. The shrinkage in the "traditional" formal employment sector (mining and public service
sectors), has also lent increased importance to investing in people and to developing a system that will
produce a workforce with skills relevant to the sectors in which the demand for skilled labor is likely to
expand. Training providers and regulators need to respond quickly to changes in skill demand, and the
system must impart to trainees entrepreneurial zeal as well as 'trainability", in addition to the specific skills
taught. The CAS proposes the preparation of a Training Sub-sector Investment Program, which will focus
on the cost-effective provision of new skills in close collaboration with all stakeholders.
Government has recognized that serious problems exist in Zambia's public training provision and in the
regulation of the sector and has been fully committed to a process of far reaching reform. In line with the
reforms being proposed, Government has asked the Bank's assistance in implementing TDP. In this
section, we provide an economic rationale underlying the Bank's support for this reform. We start by
providing a synopsis of the labor market, examining the supply of skills and the imbalances in demand and
supply. This will be followed by an analysis of the returns to training and some cost-benefit analysis
(incorporating uncertainty and reporting under different risk scenarios) for the Bank's support for the
Program.
2. Demand and supply of skills
(a) The labor market
Most of this section is based on an analysis of the 1993 and 1996 Living Conditions Measurement Survey
(LCMS). Such an exercise was also carried out in 1998 -- however, the quality of the data is poor, and
hence we have not included those results in this section.
Zambia's population is currently around 10 million and is growing by up to 300,000 per annum. However,
about 200,000 of this annual increase is related to the child population (aged under 12 years). Growth in
the working-age population is running at about 100,000. This growth is almost entirely concentrated
among young adults aged 20-39 years.
Labor-force participation and growth
Apart from these demographics, the main influence on labor force growth is the participation rate.
Participation is high -- generally over 85% -- in all age groups between 25 and 64 years. The rate for 20-24
year-olds, and in the over-65 population, is over 70%. In terms of trend, participation has been stable
among the over-25s, but has risen significantly among teen-agers and, to a lesser extent, among those aged
20-25. This rising youth labor force participation is mirrored in falling school enrollment rates.
- 53 -



This combination of demographic and participation trends means that the labor force is currently growing
annually by over 150,000, or about 4%. Some recent years have seen higher increases than this. Table 1
shows how the age-structure of the labor force evolved between 1993 and 1996.
Table 1: Population and labor force by age
Population '000      Participation %      Labor Force '000
Age/Year     1993      1996       1993       1996       1993      1996
<12       3077       3664       N/A        N/A        N/A       N/A
12-19      1823       1791       28%        34%        510        609
20-39      2295       2714       80%        82%       1844       2227
40+        1283      1347       86%        85%        1097      1151
Total      8460       9516      41%         42%       3452       3987
The bulk of the increase is concentrated in the 20-3 9 age-range (accounting for almost 80% of an increase
of 500,000 between 1993 and 1996). This reflects both the underlying demographics and the slight
increase in participation at age 20-24. The teenage labor force has also grown significantly, despite the
static population in this age-range. The numbers in the labor force aged 40 years and over are broadly
stable.
Education levels in the laborforce
Direct data on the educational profile of the labor force have not been published for recent years. However,
the 1996 LCMS does contain these data in respect of the overall out-of-school population. Given that
aggregate labor force participation is so high, this is likely to be a good guide to education levels in the
labor force, particularly for those in the 20-64 age range. A summary of the data is in Table 2 below.
- 54 -



Table 2: Out-of-school population by educational attainment, 1996
Educational Level Attained
Age       None      Grade 1-4    Grade 5-7    Grade 8-9    Grade 10-12   >Grade 12
12-20      18%         26%         41%         12%           3%           0%
21-30       9%         14%         40%         20%          15%           3%
31-45      12%         15%         36%         10%          22%           6%
46-59      31%         28%         23%          7%           7%           4%
60+       51%         31%          14%         2%            1%          1%
Total      18%         20%         35%         13%          12%           3%
Overall, almost 40% of the adult population has no education beyond Grade 4. About one-third has
completed primary education only. Secondary level was the highest level attended by some 25%; and only
3% had some post-secondary education.
Employment and unemployment
Unemployment in 1996 is estimated at about 15%, suggesting that employment stood at approximately 3.6
million and unemployment at 0.7 million. Employment has been growing by over 100,000 annually, but
this has been insufficient to absorb the increase in the labor force. While unemployment rose til the mid
1990s, anecdotal evidence from the late 1990s suggests that the economic growth experienced has
generated sufficient additional employment to lead to a stabilization of the unemployment rates.
Table 3 gives an indication of how unemployment and employment trends have affected those in different
age groups. Teenage employment has been stagnant, leading to a sharp increase in unemployment in this
age-group. Virtually all of the increase in employment has been concentrated among young adults aged
20-39 years. Even here, the unemployment rate rose somewhat. In absolute terms this group accounted for
half of the rise in unemployment. In the older age groups unemployment rose slightly but remained at low
levels.
Table 3: Employment and unemployment
Employment '000     Unemployment '000    Unemployment Rate
Age/Year    1993       1996       1993       1996      1993       1996
12-19      367       365        143        244        28%        40%
20-39     1622       1896       222        331        12%        15%
40+      1075       1113         22        38         2%         3%
Total     3064      3374        387        612        11%        15%
- 55 -



Structure of employment by industry and occupation
Agriculture dominates the employment structure, although there has been some diversification away from
the sector in recent years, with its share in total employment falling from 75% in 1993 to 67% in 1996
(Table 4). This reflected static agricultural employment in the context of an increase in the economy-wide
total. Mining has also been in decline, both in relative and absolute terms. However, even in these sectors,
there have been significant success stories over the past few years -- e.g., commercial farming, horticulture,
emerald mining, other semi-precious stones.
The largest compensating increase has come in the distribution sector, where employment grew by more
than half between 1993 and 1996. This may not all relate to pure distribution per se, as many of the
informal vending operations likely to be included in this grouping appear to be engaged in production as
well as sale of agricultural produce, craft products or value-added services. Employment in manufacturing
rose by one-third and in community social and personal services by one quarter. Current trends indicate
that these sectors are expected to remain the main engines of growth in employment in forthcoming years.
Table 4: Employment by industry group
Interest group              1993                 1996
'000                '000        %
Agriculture                 2267       74%       2260       67%
Mining                        92        3%         67        2%
Manufacturing                123        4%        169        5%
Utilities                     10        0%         10        0%
Construction                  31        1%         34        1%
Distribution, hotels etc.    282        9%        439       13%
Transport/communications      61        2%         67        2%
Finance etc.                  31        1%         34        1%
Community, social, personal  245        8%        304        9%
Total                       3064      100%       3372      100%
More detailed data indicate that rural industry and services employment rose from about 110,000 to
290,000 over this period, while the urban equivalent rose from 740,000 to 820,000. Rural non-agricultural
activities accounted for 12% of employment in 1996 as against 5% in 1993. While the estimates for
smaller non-agricultural industry groups may be unreliable, the data remain suggestive of significant
diversification of rural employment over the period.
Changing sectoral pattems are reflected in change in the occupational structure of employment. The
relevant data are in Table 5. The bulk of the increase in employment was concentrated in sales, service and
production occupations. Although the production occupations were the slowest-growing of these, their
growth was more rapid than that of the manufacturing and mining sectors combined. This again suggests
that at least some production activity is being recorded in "distribution" in the industry-group data.
- 56 -



Table 5: Employment by occupation group
Occupation                1993                  1996
'000       %         '000        %
Administrative/managerial    31         1%         34         1%
Professional and technical  153        5%         169        5%
Clerical                     61        2%          67        2%
Service                     123        4%         202        6%
Sales                       153        5%         304        9%
Production/related          245        8%         337        10%
Agricultural/other         2298       75%        2260       67%
Total                      3064       100%       3372       100%
(b) Supply of skills
This issue has been dealt with extensively in the main text of the PAD. To summarize, while Government
has traditionally maintained tight control over public training institutions through centralized decision
making, it has not been able to finance the training system adequately. Furthermore, Government funding
is not allocated appropriately; and the funding mechanism that Government uses to fund institutions is not
transparent. The quality of training is poor in these institutions and most non-salary expenditures go into
maintenance of student welfare. Not surprisingly, training provided in the public institutions is rarely
geared to the needs of the labor market.
At the same time, private "for profit" institutions are not competing on a level-playing field. MSTVT
provides limited support services other than registration and infrequent inspections. Furthermore,
non-profit providers are not being supported by Government. These courses tend to be small,
practically-oriented, and targeted towards poor students. Many have close links to small-scale industry in
the area and are able to find employment for some students; however, Government provides almost no
assistance to such institutions.
(c) Demand-supply mismatches
In a survey carried out in the mid 1990's in seven provinces, a sample of 100 large-scale and 100
small-scale establishments from both urban and rural areas were asked questions on (among others)
employment in various skill categories, reasons for any existing vacancies, skill shortages and the reasons
underlying such shortages. The analysis sheds some interesting light on the imbalances between the
demand for skills and the supply of skills.
In the formal sector, both large-scale and small-scale enterprises indicated that due to skill shortages,
positions were occupied by individuals without the necessary qualification. In response to a question about
satisfaction with the skill level of their workers -- over 45% of enterprises indicated dissatisfaction.
Large-scale employers felt that skills were most in short supply in high-level technical, sales/accounting
and craft occupations while small-scale entrepreneurs felt that the skills they needed most were in
- 57 -



managerial, accounting and basic administrative occupations. Employers felt that some of the main causes
for skill shortages were: inability of the firm to make sufficient investment in training, poor quality of
training centers and lack of responsiveness of training centers to labor market demand.
For informal sector employers, the single bottleneck most frequently mentioned to improving efficiency was
lack of worker skills (Table 6). Employers feel that their most likely training needs include some basic
technical skills as well as some business education.
Table 6: Major bottlenecks in operations
Problem                    % of sample
Combination of factors                  99.2
Skill of workers                        93.2
Fees and taxes                          92.7
Regulations                             92.1
Access to credit                        84.3
Finding markets                         84.3
Cost of credit                          83.0
It is also instructive to see that employers feel that the public training system is not responding to their
needs. In the same study, over 50% of large-scale employers and 60% of small-scale employers stated that
they had no formal contacts with the public training system. When asked how training institutes could
change to become more responsive to their needs (Table 7), large-scale employers indicated strongly that
they desired closer interaction of training providers with labor market needs (92%), improved training
quality (88%) and different types of courses (79%). Small scale employers displayed somewhat similar
preferences, though to a lesser extent.
Table 7: Changes institutions should make to become more responsive (% of firms)
Change needed                                 Large-scale employers   Small-scale employers
Interact more closely w/ employers to know needs      92                    75
Improve quality of training                           88                    65
Offer different types of courses                      79                    37
Introduce evening classes                              58                    39
Increase the number of trainees                       42                     23
(d) Private returns to training
Regression analysis of the 1996 LCMS data -- to determine the influence of education and training on
eamings -- shows that the retums to one more year's grade attainment in secondary school, is less than the
- 58 -



returns to one more year of training -- for persons in occupations where training is a relevant factor in wage
determination. The retums to both, formal education and training, are significantly high (Figure 1).
While formal education has slightly higher retums for workers in low and middle levels of white collar
occupations (clerks, associates, etc.), vocational training has higher retums for workers in blue collar lower
skill jobs (crafts and trades), and for those in blue collar high skill jobs (technicians, machine operators
and kindred). These three segments of the labor market correspond (roughly) to the three types of training:
(a) diploma level courses in fields like accounting taught at, e.g., institutes like Evelyn Hone and
ZAMIM;
(b) technician certificates in fields like metal fabrication and heavy machine operation taught at, for
example, institutions such as NORTEC and ITC; and
(c) trade and craft certificates in fields like carpentry and tailoring offered at most NGO training
providers and the trades training institutes.
Fig. 1: Returns to Training and Sec. Ed. |
4EhTrainina *SSchoolinal
12.0%
10.0%
8.0%
6.0%
4.0%A
2.0%
Base impact  High skill blue  Low skill blue Low to mid level Sef employed   Women  Informal sector
(for males  collar worker    collar workers  whte collar  employed in
employed in                      workers           elementary jobs
elementary jobs                                        in the
in the                                            government)
government)
Several caveats accompany these results: The probability of finding employment is low for trainees of
vocational institutes. So, these retums are measuring the retums conditional on finding a job. Further, the
retums measured here are private retums "conditional on employment". While the social retums will be
lower, it is not possible to measure them as the data do not allow us to distinguish between individuals
trained in public and private institutions, nor to identify trainees who dropped out or are unemployed or
under-employed.
In the Zambian context, macroeconomic trends may impinge on the realized rates of retum. The analysis
was done on data from 1996 -- a time when the economy had been shrinking. During times of recession,
the calculated retums may be an underestimation of what the retums would be at present, when the
economy has resumed positive growth and is expected to grow at 4-5% annually over the next few years.
- 59 -



3. Rationale for intervention in the training subsector
The training sector in Zamnbia suffers from several market failures or imperfections that make its capacity
to respond to the needs of a diversifying and growing economy suspect. This section discusses market
failure and other arguments which justify intervention in the training sub-sector.
(a) Market failures
Private providers are not competing on a level playing field. Private providers account for about 70% of
the institutions and total enrollment. However they face problems such as limited access to capital,
inadequacy of the competitively determined fees to finance the necessary equipment and instructional
materials. MSTVT support is limited to poorly maintained registration records and infrequent inspections.
Private "for profit" providers are increasingly competing against academic staff associations that have
started up in public training institutions -- these act as "for profit" centers for the staff of the institutions --
with student fees being used to augment teacher's salaries. These academic associations are subsidized by
the public institutions through the use made of the facilities, materials and equipment of the public training
institution while providing minimal compensation to the institution in retum. Church and other NGO-run
courses, which tend to be small, practically-oriented, and very targeted towards poor students/informal
sector operators receive amost no support from Govemment. To alleviate these problems, the Program is
going to develop a financing mechanism which will encourage demand-driven training provided through
public and private training institutions. This mechanism will also be used to channel funds to poor and
disadvantaged groups.
Market failures and distortions in labor market information availability. Reliable indicators of skill
needs are difficult to estimate in any country. Methods of estimation normally include surveys and
formal/informal contacts between the training system and employers. Neither of these sources is used well
in Zambia; and decision-takers make little use of information on trends in labor market demand in order to
modify the VET system in response to this demand. The capacity to analyze the information on market
demands and on skill supply in order to make decisions seems to be lacking. The Program will build
capacity in the collection, management and monitoring of institutional and labor market related information
and develop a mechanism through which this information is fed back to stakeholders.
(b) Externalities from Program (within the context of a changing economy)
Ability of sectors to plan with greater confidence and to work on long-term business plans. Supply
driven training is a legacy of the old system. Apart from making training demand-driven, the Prograrn will
allow firms and sectors to plan with greater confidence, as the training sector becomes responsive to their
skill needs. Firms can plan to adopt advanced production techniques or new technologies and maybe even
diversify to a new product line. In order to accomplish this, the Program will finance a limited number of
pilot projects in sectors (or through sector associations) that have already initiated innovative training
projects or are considering such initiatives. This will provide an opportunity to test altemative ways of
incorporating private sector led initiatives directly into the TEVET strategy and shed light on possible
altemative ways in which the private sector can contribute to the costs of training.
Spillover impacts from training into increased labor productivity, especially in the growth sectors.
Zambia's Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) foresees the diversification of the economy into
sectors like tourism, agriculture (including commercial farming), and services. It identifies 'lagging" skill
levels as a constraint to sectoral growth. The Program will facilitate the training of labor in skills
demanded by the growing sectors. The addition of workers trained in skills relevant to the growing sectors
will have a spillover effect. This effect will be larger for training in skills that are "broad yet technical"
and in sectors that are diversifying into sub-sectors that require similar skills. A good example is
commercial rose farming, a sector whose earnings have gone up four fold in a half decade. If workers are
- 60 -



trained in skills relevant to rose farning, then, in the near future, they will be available to work and provide
on-the-job-training in other commercial farning sectors.
Improved institutional capacity of ministries, training providers, industry groups. Poor institutional
capacity has been a major barrier to improving the training system. Therefore strengthening the capacity of
MSTVT as well as TEVETA to perform their functions in an effective manner will be one of the
significant goals of the Program. This will be accomplished through assisting MSTVT to strengthen its
planning function, including data collection and analysis. However, an important outcome will also be the
support that relevant Govemment agencies and stakeholders in the collection, management, monitoring and
analysis of labor market and other training-related information.
HIV/AIDS. The impact of the virus on Zambia's productive adult population is serious, with the country
losing a significant portion of its present and future professional skill base that is needed for the successful
development of a market economy oriented to the private sector. While the Program's intervention on this
issue will be relatively small - mainly IEC - it can have an important impact in assisting the development
of an overall IEC strategy to combat HIV/AIDS through information provided to students/trainees in
educational institutions.
(c) The "strategic sector" argument
The productivity spillovers and the strategic objectives identified by CAS raise the issue of using a"
strategic sector" argument for justifying investments on training in certain skills and trades. However, the
strategic sector argument is based on a supply-side decision-making perspective, whilst the Program uses a
demand-driven approach. Under the Program we can expect "high-growth" sectors to be assisted more
than other sectors because providers of training will be responding to a greater market demand for skills in
the high-growth sectors.
4. Justification for the Program
(a) Rationale for Bank involvement in the sector
This has been dealt with in the main body of the PAD in the section on Program rationale.
(b) Intended Program benefits
It is clear from the discussion in the PAD that the training system is not effective in responding to the needs
of employers (Section on Program Development and Strategic Context). To summarize, the system is
severely resource constrained, produces graduates whose skills are not needed by employers; and
Govemment lacks the capacity to make significant systemic changes. Govemment has embarked on a
major Program of reform and is working closely with relevant internal and extemal stakeholders and is in
the process of developing and implementing TDP.
The private sector has welcomed these changes and a greater involvement in the VET system. However,
based on past experiences, employers are skeptical about the prospect of reform and resistant to plans that
they contribute financially to a new training system.
The proposed IDA Credit will help Govemment with its reform Program. The Program will assist in
strengthening the capacity of MSTVT and other relevant agencies in the area of policy development. It will
strengthen TEVETA's and other relevant agencies' capacity to perform regulatory functions and in their
provision of information. The Program will also assist training institutions in capacity development, design
and implementation of business plans, assistance with accounting systems and financial management and in
liaising with industry to develop short-term and long-term courses which are relevant to labor demand.
Private providers of training who wish to avail themselves of these services will also be supported through
- 61 -



this credit. These reforms, both at the level of authorities and institutions, are likely to ensure
improvements in both the intemal and extemal efficiency of the system.
A crucial aspect of the Program is a Training Fund. This Fund will be targeted at pre-employment
trainees, in-service trainees including apprenticeship type schemes, and training for the disadvantaged. The
objective of the pilot will be to test the demand for, and the effectiveness and efficiency of both
pre-employment training as well as employer-based training supported by a Training Fund. It will test
whether training can be more cost-effective and efficient when it is demand-driven, and public training
funds are competitively awarded between public, NGO and private providers.
It will also test whether incentives given to private providers allow them to compete on a level playing field
with public providers, and demonstrate to employers the benefits that they can derive from participating in
such a Fund.
Further, the Fund will be used to channel funds to poor and disadvantaged groups.
Overall it is expected that the Program will:
(i)  improve the impact on employment of public investment in training;
(ii)  assist in removing constraints to private sector planning, investment and growth;
(iii) assist in leveling the playing field between private and public training providers;
(iv)  improve efficiency of resource use in the sector;
(v)  lead to greater participation of the private sector in the training system -- system design, funding
mechanisms, and, once the private sector has been convinced of the effectiveness of the reforms
and the Training Fund, raise funds from for financing training
(vi)  demonstrate the effectiveness of a Training Fund approach to the financing of training and
develop effective administrative and disbursement modalities for the Fund in the Zambian
context (such knowledge can be used by the private credit market to extend loans to the VET
sector once the credit sector has developed sufficiently);
(vii) make the provision of training more equitable; and
(viii) improve and expand the information base, strengthen policy making and improve public/private
collaboration in the design and management of training.
(c) Alternatives to the Program and reasonsfor rejection
This is discussed in more detail in the PAD under the section "Alternatives to the Project and Reasons for
Rejection".
(d) Risk and sustain ability issues
The risks can be broadly classified as: risk of low internal efficiency, risk of low external efficiency, and
the risk of failure to maintain financial sustainability.
TDP has built-in features that enable a wide range and ease of "automatic" risk management and reduction:
(i) Market based incentives provide in-built flexibility whereby unpredictable changes will be met
by appropriate responses.
(ii) Implementation conditions will serve as pre-requisites for disbursement of funds. For example,
- 62 -



the training fund will not disburse funds to an applicant until the applicant's financial
management system is modemized and transparent.
(iii) The performance indicators include "a stick" to ensure that stakeholders do not deviate in their
practices from their responsibilities to TDP.
These measures go a long way in reducing the risk factors.
Financial andfiscal sustainability of system post-TDP. These issues are discussed in detail in Annex 5.
(e) Poverty impact
Data currently available from the LCMS or from the institutions do not allow us to present a clear picture
of how well the poor/disadvantaged (including female trainees) are reached through the existing training
programs. It is anticipated that through the Program, targeted bursary support will be provided to increase
the participation of poor and disadvantaged groups. The monitoring and evaluation instrument will allow
us to get a better idea of how well the Program will target the poor.
(f) Cost-effectiveness
A traditional cost-effectiveness parameter like "cost per student" cannot be used in this case because: (i)
given that training is provided in an inefficient manner under the present system, the unit cost of training
within a future efficient system cannot be estimated using the cost of training under the status quo. The
input to output relations will change significantly. (ii) The system is expected to change qualitatively --
more relevant courses, new certifications, new areas of training, etc. Such changes imply that the output
and the outcome of the Program will change.
Instead, several indicators will be developed within the monitoring and evaluation system to measure
cost-effectiveness and intemal efficiency (the intemal efficiency of various modes of training, and of
individual institutions, etc.) This information could potentially be used to re-allocate resources, modify
guidelines for fund disbursement, and other cost effectiveness measures.
(g) Cost-benefit analysis
While the Bank is financing TDP with other stakeholders, in this section we attempt to estimate the benefits
which can be attributed to the Bank's input into the process. While this is, by necessity, a somewhat rough
analysis, our data allows us to calculate benefits by sector, socioeconomic background and by other
characteristics. It also provides estimates of the variability of these benefits, and, modeling over a
cost-benefit framework, allows us to estimate the intemal rate of return and net present value.
The model is based on basic financial accounting principles with the simulation overlay for incorporating
uncertainty. All data in the model are based on the most reliable sources: the LCMS surveys, the unit cost
study of VET institutions by Afro Development Services, the addendum/corrections to that study based on
mission work, Bank-Fund macroeconomic projections and the records of the Ministry of Finance and
MSTVT.
We have tried to make the cost-benefit model as fine a depiction of economic reality as is possible with
available data. The main problem in cost benefit analysis is the use of ex ante estimations for future
projections. We were careful in not confusing the making of a prudent, empiricism-based assumptions with
wishful thinking. Our aim is to show that the "reservation" IRR is reached under credible and low risk
scenarios even though we make conservative assumptions on benefits and exclude the non-quantifiable
ones. At the end of this annex, we report on the results of the cost-benefit analysis under different risk
scenarios -- both positive and negative deviations from our base assumptions about the intemal efficiency
of the training system and the state of the economy.
- 63 -



Benefit and cost assumptions
The size of the system. We assume that the total capacity of the system does not change -- the total number
of students in the system overall remains at around 15,000. The proportion of students at the diploma,
technician, and crafts level is 0.2, 0.4, and 0.4. We assume that these proportions do not change.
Annual costper student. The training cost estimates are based on analysis of expenditure and budget data
from individual institutions, MSTVT and Ministry of Finance. The average "model" cost of training a
representative student is K2.45 million per annum. This was calculated based on data provided by
institutions. The most difficult data source was that on unit costs. The data were incomplete for some
institutions in either or both of two ways: the institution did not report an expenditure spending in a certain
category in a given year or/and they did not provide the accounts of all training and economic activities of
the institution. By interviewing institution heads, accounting staff, and ministry level accounting staff, we
were able to form a much clearer picture of the institutions whose data were not reliable. We also obtained
particulars on "informal" training activities, training under different ministries, so that a "costing" model
could be constructed for running a training institution efficiently. The per student unit cost varies
significantly between institutions reflecting different course provisions, staff/student ratios and other
reasons. These unit costs lie in the range Kwacha 2m to Kwacha lOm with a system mean of Kwacha
2.4m (ignoring boarding and lodging).
Relation between training fund, other Program components, and the benefits attributable to each. For
ease of computation, we assume that there are two kinds of trainees - those that receive the full benefits of
the Training Fund, and those that do not benefit directly from the Fund but who benefit from improvements
in the system in general - through improvements in TEVETA, MSTVT, information availability,
institutional capacity building, etc. The total number benefiting from the Fund is imputed as being equal to
the total resources available for the Fund divided by a "model" unit cost. The total number benefiting from
the Program includes all trainees in the system. The trainees who are not directly assisted by the Fund will
benefit from the system-wide benefits engendered by TSIP.
The only feasible method to quantify benefits is to use the projected benefits to trainees. Apart from
trainees, the other direct beneficiaries of the Program are the employers. Indirect benefits may accrue to
the economy and to Government. However, we have not quantified these benefits in the model. We assume
that improved training will lead to an increase in the productivity of workers. Some of these assumptions
include:
Improvement in quality of training and the examination system. At present, the pass rates for training
certification examinations are low. Data from the Examination Council of Zambia provide some estimates
of these rates-- 60% for diplomas, 50% for technician level certificates and -- a much better -- 90% for
trade certifications. Based on the data on the pass rates of students in currently well performing institutions
(both public and private), we assume that, for those students directly affected by the training fund, the pass
rates will increase to 90%, 90% and 95%, respectively, by the end of the Program. In terms of those
students who do not benefit directly, pass rates are expected to rise to the above levels -- but do so
gradually over a 10 year period.
Increase in employment probability. This is a consequence of the lack of market-relevance of training
provided through the system is that the employment rates of graduates is very low - at about 40% (within
six months after completion of Program). All components of TDP will contribute to improving the rate of
employment. We assume that by the end of the Program, graduates assisted by the fund will have enhanced
their employment probabilities to 70%. Similarly, those not directly assisted by the Fund will also be more
likely to be employed. However, their probability of finding employment will rise more slowly -- to 70%
- 64 -



over a 10 year period. As almost no institutions in Zamnbia follow trainees up after they have graduated,
these numbers are based on estimates provided to the mission by institutions that are supposed to have a
successful record in placing their graduates. They usually report employment in excess of 80%.
Growth in real wages. The LCMS allows us to compute wage differentials between trainees (at various
levels) and the next lowest level of education - secondary school (see Table 8). It also allows us to compute
the average returns to an additional year of experience -- 1.7%.
Table 8: Wage differentials (all numbers in real 1999 Kwacha)
Level                    Wage Differential
Diploma level                            813,400
Technician level                         581,800
Trade and craft certificate level        265,200
Expected post training earning span. Based on current demographic trends, with a life expectancy of
around 50 years in Zambia, we assume an expected earnings span of 27 years.
Declining impact over time. While the impact will last beyond the Program lifetime, it is assumed to
decline steadily after the completion of the Program. The system-wide impacts attributable to the Program
will also decline as the system's capacity and quality become self-sustaining. We capture this declining
impact using a "depreciation factor". The use of such a factor lends a conservative tilt to our financial
estimation because the discounted value of positive impacts in the future decline rapidly with an assumed
10% discount rate.
Uncertainty. As the IRR is likely to be sensitive to uncertainty in parameters, uncertainty has been
incorporated into the model through the empirically derived distribution form for these parameters. The
distribution of some parameters was obtained from raw data. If the distribution did not have a better fit
with other distribution types, we assumed a normal distribution. For estimated parameters -- like a
coefficient from a regression or correlation or a wage differential from an ANOVA -- the estimated
standard errors were used to specify the nature of uncertainty.
Summary of results
Results of the cost-benefit analysis. Based on the assumptions specified above, the present value of the
stream of benefits from the Program is shown in figure 3. The model predicts an Intemal Rate of Return
for the Program of 17%.
As specified above, uncertainty has also been incorporated into various parameters in the model to estimate
their impact on the rate of retum. The chart below provides us with the result of this analysis based on
100,000 simulations. It predicts a rate of return that is centered around 17% and that the 90% confidence
interval of the IRR lies between 9% and 27%. Alternatively, there is only about a 11% likelihood (see
Figure 4) that the rate of return for the Program will be less than 10%.
- 65 -



Figure 3: Distribution of expected rate of return
Forecast: IRR
100,000 Trials                       Frequency Chart                           542 Outliers
.144
P
R
0   .10  - 
BR
A
B   .072- 
L 036-
T                                 Me~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~an=17% 
T    000
3%              10%              18%             25%              33%
Certainty is 90.00% from 9% to 27% %
Figure 4: Cumulative distribution of expected rate of return
Overlay Chart
Cumulative Comparison
1.000    ~     ~
R
0   .750j  ..                                                                  ...
B[
1 .000IR
2%              10%               17%              25%               32%
- 66 -



Risk scenarios andfeasibility of Program
We also aimed at estimating the rate of return using different scenarios -- a "high" scenario and a "low"
scenario. Under the "low" scenario we attempted to estimate rates of return if the system did not achieved
the desired level of intemal efficiency (e.g. pass rates improve only marginally) or the desired level of
external efficiency (e.g. improvements in employment rates and productivity are marginal). Altematively,
under the "high" scenario, we assumed significant gains in either intemal or extemal efficiency are assumed
-- real GDP growth, pass rate levels, and probability of finding employment post-training are at levels that
respectively correspond to a healthy economy, efficient training system, and, to robust demand for trained
labor.
Low extemal efficiency is a risk that can only be partly be managed by the Program. This is because the
demand for skilled and trained workers depends on the national and sectoral economic conditions. So,
while institutions can produce graduates in response to perceived labor demands, if the economy is not
growing, the trainees may be less likely to be employed, or, if they do find employment, it will not be at
wages commensurate with the increase in the quality and relevance of training. Table 9 presents the mean
IRR under different risk scenarios.
Table 9a: IRR under different scenarios of external and internal efficiency
(assuming base case scenario for internal efficiency)
Low         Base Case        High
External Efficiency             14             17             19
Internal Efficiency              9             17             25
Table 9b: IRR under the worst case (low internal and external efficiency) and best case scenario (low
internal and external efficiency)
External Efficiency
Low                         High
Internal Efficiency         Low          7
High                                       29
These results show that even in a case where the Program significantly under-performs - low impact in
terms of increasing pass rates and low impact in increasing the relevance of the training provided to labor
market demand then the IRR will be 7%. However, in a best case scenario, the IRR could be as high as
29%.
5. Conclusions
Our analysis shows that, under a "base case" scenario, the IRR will be around 17%. Simulations done
incorporating uncertainty in the model, conclude that the IRR will lie between 9% and 27% (a 90%
confidence interval) and that the probability that the IRR is below 10% is quite small (below 11%).
- 67 -



Summary of Benefits and Costs:
see above
Main Assumptions:
see above
Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
see above
- 68 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ZAMBIA: Technical Education Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET)
Development Program Support Project
Years Ending
2008
Year1   | Year2   | Year3   | Year4   | Year 5  | Year6                 Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs               6.5        15.0         16.9        14.7         7.7         3.5        3.0
Recurrent Costs                 6.8         6.8         6.8         6.8         6.8          6.7        6.7
Total Project Costs             13.3        21.8         23.7        21.5        14.5        10.2         9.7
Total Financing                 13.3        21.8         23.7        21.5        14.5        10.2         9.7
Financing
IBRD/IDA                       2.1         6.5         8.5         6.0          1.9        0.0         0.0
Government                     4.2         4.2         4.2         4.2         4.2         4.2         4.2
Central                    4.2         4.2         4.2         4.2         4.2         4.2         4.2
Provincial                 0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Co-financiers                  5.4         9.4         9.4         6.7         2.4         1.7         0.9
User Fees/Beneficiaries        1.4         1.4         1.4         1.4          1.4        1.4         1.4
Others                         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.9          1.2        2.9         3.2
Total Project Finincing        13.2        21.7         23.7        19.2        11.1       10.2          9.7
Main assumptions: <
From 2002-2006 (year 5) IDA funds will be used. By 2008 (year 7) we expect the program to become independent of IDA
support.
Note: \The category "other" represents industrial contribution as well as TEVETA's contribution to the system (see section 2d
below). Also, in the above matrix, some co-financiers are not directly participating in TDP (e.g., EU, British Council)
but they are funding other initiatives in the training sector and hence their contributions have been included.
Un the first two years the discrepancy between total cost and identified financing is due to rounding.
1. Costs
(a) Investment costs
These include the setup and developmental costs associated with the components in the program -- TDP
management, training fund, TEVET management and human resources development, training systems
development, TEVET information system, entrepreneurship development, infrastructure and equipment,
HIV/AIDS, gender and other cross-cutting issues.
The major investment costs during the program will be on infrastructure and equipment. After the end of
the first phase of TDP, some investment costs will result from continuing investment in infrastructure and
equipment, as well as for human capital development.
(b) Recurrent costs
A significant proportion of the recurrent costs is associated with the running of training institutions. There
will also be recurrent costs associated with running MSTVT operations (relevant to the area of training) as
well as recurrent costs associated with TEVETA. Most of these recurrent costs will in the long-run be
disbursed through the Training Fund to institutions which can demonstrate that they are providing training
- 69 -



that is responsive to market needs and in a way that is cost-effective. Prior to the establishment of the
Training Fund, institutions will also be able to access funds for setting up new courses/modifying existing
courses - provided they meet certain criteria developed in the program. Recurrent costs will also be
associated with information systems, HIVIAIDS and other cross-cutting components, as well as bursaries
for ensuring that the poor can access training programs.
2. Financing
(a) Government
Government has committed itself to continue supporting the TEVET system at least at the current level as a
percent of both allocation and disbursement from Government's discretionary budget - 0.8%. At current
levels, this is approximately equivalent to $4 million (in disbursements). While growth is expected to lead
to an increase in Government's discretionary budget and hence to an increase in the contribution of
Government to the TEVET system, we have conservatively assumed that Government's contribution
remains at the same level over the near future.
(b) Userfeeslbeneficiaries
This is mainly in the form of student fees which institutions charge. With the transition to autonomy,
public institutions have raised their fees in order to be able to meet operating expenses. This also includes
income that institutions make from their production units. We again make the conservative assumption that
the revenue from fees will not increase in real terms over the next few years, even though individuals will
be willing to pay more for training with the system becoming more demand-driven and responsive to labor
market needs.
(c) Co-financiers
Various co-financiers have agreed to support Government's TDP. In addition to IDA, DANIDA has
committed USD 15 million over the five years of the Program, the Netherlands has committed USD 14
million over the next five years and GTZ has committed USD 1.5 million over the next three years. Most
of these funds will be used to finance both developmental as well as recurrent costs. British Council, EU
and JICA are also some of the donors who have expressed an interest in TDP without yet committed any
funds to this purpose. However, they are supporting initiatives in training in Zambia and hence their
contributions have been included in the matrix above.
There is a significant likelihood that these (and other) donors will continue to finance the sector, albeit on a
much small scale, after the five year TDP process is complete.
(d) Others
TEVETA will be raising funds from its activities and these will flow into the TDP. In addition, and much
more imnportantly, towards the end of the Program, employers will start contributing towards the financing
of the system. The modalities of this assistance will be worked out through lessons learned from the
experience of the training fund. Another possibility that is under discussion with employers is that
Government may levy a payroll tax on employers to raise finances for the training fund, and hence TEVET,
from 2004 onwards.
3. Financial sustainability
(a) Financial performance within the sector
One of the aims of the Program is to set up a self sustaining financing system for demand-driven training.
Historically, the financial performance within the sector has had weaknesses. The public training
institutions have suffered from internal efficiency, poor financial performance, and, a lack of quality
financial management. Private provision has been constrained by several features (discussed in Annex 4),
with a resulting shortage of credit availability.
- 70 -



(b) Program's capacity for self-financing beyond the loan closing date
As we can see from the table above, as IDA and other donors phase out their financing of the sector,
industry contribution to the system is expected to increase and close the financing gap (we should also
expect an increase in direct Govemment contributions and revenues raised from fees).
(c) Evaluating a financial "steady state"for the system
The capacity building and full development and utilization of Program facilities should be completed during
the implementation period. The institutions and stakeholders in the system have the capacity to monitor
and evaluate changes in the financing requirements of the system, avenues to voice their opinion, and tools
to engender changes in the system, and, thereby, the financial requirements.
4. Financial summary of revenue earning Program entities
Not applicable.
- 71 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ZAMBIA: Technical Education Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Development
Program Support Project
Procurement
Applicability of the procedures described in this annex. This annex describes the agreed procurement
procedures for works, goods, services, grants and operating costs to be financed from the IDA Credit, as a
minimum. A draft Program Financial and Procurement Manual (PFPM) has been developed by MSTVT and
will be finalized by effectiveness. Bank staff comments on it, including suggestions for elaboration of the
manual have been provided. Comments from other cooperating partners are also being solicited by MSTVT.
While the procedures set out in the PFPM, and reflected in this Annex, would, at a minimum, be utilized for
activities financed from the IDA Credit, it is intended that the Manual should be either directly suitable for,
or adaptable to, support provided by other cooperating partners.
Procurement for project preparation. Studies undertaken during preparation work for the project were
financed under the PPF. Contracts were awarded based on IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. The
summary of proposed procurement arrangements is presented in Table A.
Procurement under the Project. It is not possible to determine the exact mix of goods, works and services
to be procured under the Project as a whole at this stage due to: (a) the beneficiary agencies' needs not
having been defined so far, and (b) because the nature of requirements under the Training Fund will emerge
based on proposals formulated by the training institutions at the relevant time. For this reason an
expenditure category called "Training" was added to the traditional ones. Goods, works and services
amounts are derived from the Borrower's procurement plan for the first 18 months of the project. This is
reflected in Table A below. Procurement plans will be defined each year, in advance, and agreed with IDA.
This will include finalization of procurement packages and methods of procurement.
IDA finances USD 25 million, bilateral donors will finance about USD 33 million, while Government,
students, industry and TEVETA will finance about USD 30 million of the cost of the program. Most of the
cost of the project will involve procurement of goods, works and services (directly or through the Training
category) as well as use for operating costs etc. The procurement for bilateral donors' support will be
conducted according to their relevant procurement rules. However, it is anticipated that some donors may
follow IDA guidelines for procurement. Further, the use of funds for each component is not fixed for each
donor and flexibility will rule how these are used in practice. This explains the substantial and varied level
of procurement requirements involved in the project. This has an impact on the way in which procurements
support arrangements are defined under "institutional arrangements".
Guidelines governing IDA-financed procurement. IDA financed credits will be utilized for goods, works,
training, consultancy, and operating costs under the project. Procurement for all IDA financed activities
will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999).
Consulting services by firms or individuals will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997; Revised September
1997; Addendum Effective January 1, 1999,
- 72 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Works. The civil works to be included in this project would be small and generally of rehabilitation
and refurbishment type of contracts for the beneficiary learning institutions. There shall be one
major civil contract for the construction of the TEVETA office block. All civil works contracts
shall be procured centrally by the Procurement Unit.
Larger contracts of individual value USD 500,000 equivalent or above will be awarded on the basis of
ICB. Smaller value works procurement contracts (individual value of less than USD 500,000 equivalent)
will be awarded on the basis of NCB. Works estimated to cost more than USD 30,000 per contract up to
an aggregate of USD 2.75 million equivalent will be procured by using national competitive bidding. Prior
to initiating the procurement process under NCB, the draft NCB document shall be submitted to IDA for
review and approval. The approved document shall be used for all works procurements under NCB,
subject to appropriate modifications under the bid data sheet and special conditions.
Contracts for works estimated to cost USD 30,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount of USD 0.25 million
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from at least three qualified domestic civil works contractors invited in writing to bid. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic fonn of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable.
The awards will be made to the contractors who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work,
provided they demonstrate they have the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Goods. To the extent possible, contracts for the large ticket items shall be grouped into packages
estimated to cost USD 100,000 equivalent or more and will be procured through Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Domestic preference will be applicable.
Smaller value goods procurement contracts (individual value of less than USD 100,000) equivalent
up to an aggregate amount of USD 3.28 million equivalent will be awarded on the basis of NCB.
Tlhe standard bidding document for NCB will be submitted to IDA by the Procurement Unit for
prior review. The approved document will form the basis of all NCB procurements under this
project
Goods estimated to cost less than USD 30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of USD
1.0 million equivalent may be procured through shopping procedures by soliciting at least three quotations
from different suppliers, in accordance with the IDA Procurement Guidelines (Paragraph 3.5 and 3.6) and
June 9, 2000 Memorandum, "Guidance on Shopping", issued by the Bank. The procedure to be adopted
here is to award fixed price contracts on the basis of written solicitation issued to at least three qualified
suppliers after evaluation of bids which would be received in writing
Contracts estimated to cost less than USD 50,000, up to an aggregate of USD 500,000 may be procured
through United Nations Agencies (IAPSO, UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO) in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. National shopping for regular operation and maintenance will follow IDA
guidelines. Procurement of goods and hiring of facilities for training purposes, such as workshops, will
also be carried out through shopping procedures.
Consultant services. Consultant selection for assignments will be addressed through competition among
qualified short-listed firms and individuals in which the selection will be based on Quality-and-Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) by evaluation of the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of services to be
- 73 -



provided. The total cost of consultant services is estimated at USD 2.0 million equivalent. The
consultancy services required would cover procurement services, training fund design, training fund
management, support to training institutions, architectural services, infrastructure support, auditing and
financial management.
All consulting service contracts costing more than USD 100,000 equivalent for firms will be
awarded through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method.
Shortlists for contracts estimated to cost under USD 100,000 may be comprised entirely of national
consultants if a sufficient number of qualified (at least three) are available at competitive costs.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded. Contracts less than
USD 100,000 each for firms, and USD 50,000 for individuals, could be contracted on the basis of
CQ, and may be awarded on a single source basis only in exceptional circumstances, after adequate
justification and prior review by IDA.
Training. This category comprises three subcategories: (a) training grants for subprojects; (b) staff
development and other training activities, and (c) bursaries. USD 9.5 million are allocated to the
subcategory training grants for training providers and TEVETA's training support services. Procurement
under this subcategory will be done initially by MSTVT, TEVETA and training institutions following
guidelines developed by MSTVT and agreed to by IDA. Subsequently, procurement under training grants
will follow the guidelines established by the Training Fund and agreed to by IDA. Training activities for
staff of MSTVT, TEVETA and training institutions totaling approximately USD 2.0 million equivalent
will comprise hiring formal courses, study tours and workshops. Procurement of these will follow IDA
procurement guidelines. The third subcategory, Bursaries, totals USD 1.0 million.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             1.00             0.00          0.00          0.00         1.00
=  _  (1 .00)   (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)      (1.00)
2. Goods                             0.70             1.20          0.38          0.00         2.28
(0.70)          (1.20)        (0.38)         (0.00)      (2.28)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00          2.00          0.00         2.00
(footnote 3)                        (0.00)           (0.00)        (2.00)        (0.00)       (2.00)
4. Training:                         0.00             7.10          5.40          0.00        12.50
(a) Grants for Subprojects
(b) Staff Development and
other Training Costs
(c) Bursaries
(0.00)          (7.10)        (5.40)        (0.00)      (12.50)
5. Operating Costs                   0.00             0.00          2.00          0.00         2.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (2.00)         (0.00)      (2.00)
6. Unallocated and PPF               0.00             0.00          5.22          0.00         5.22
_________________ __   (0.00)    (0.00)         (5.22)        (0.00)      (5.22)
Total                              1.70            8.30          15.00         0.00        25.00
___________________  (1.70)  (3.30)   _ (15.00)  (0.00)  (25.00)
- 74 -



" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training support services, staff development activities,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project. In
addition it includes grants to training providers and bursaries.
3/ Consultant services (see Table Al).
4/ The term "Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs arising under the Project on account of
maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office supplies, utilities, consumables, travel and accommodation,
auxiliary Project staff salaries, staff advances, medical expenses but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil
servants.
- 75 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms                 1.14    0.00      0.00    0.00      0.28     0.00     0.00      1.42
(1.14)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.28)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (1.42)
B. Individuals           0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      0.29     0.29     0.00      0.58
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.29)   (0.29)   (0.00)    (0.58)
Total  1.14     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.57     0.29     0.00      2.00
(1.14)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.57)   (0.29)   (0.00)    (2.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
For procurement of goods, all cases valued at USD 100,000 or more will require prior review by IDA. For
Works, all cases valued at USD 250,000 or more will require prior review by IDA. In addition the first
three contracts irrespective of value shall be submitted to the Association for its prior review and approval.
The said contracts shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
The Bank will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the borrower for those
consultancy contracts to be awarded to firms and individuals. Prior review will not be required for
contracts worth less than USD 100,000 for firms and contracts worth less than USD 50,000 for
individuals. However, IDA will review: (a) all Terms of Reference of contracts, regardless of value; (b)
all single-source hiring; (c) assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA; and (d) amendments of
contracts raising the contract value above the prior review thresholds.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category   Contract Value Threshold   Procurement Method   Contracts Subject to
(USD thousands)                               Prior Review
(USD millions)
1. Works              <500,000                  NCB                    >250,000
>500,000                 ICB                     >250,000
2. Goods              <100,000                  NCB                     >first 3 contracts
>100,000                 ICB                     >100,000
- 76 -



3. Services           >100,000                 QCBS                   >100,000 (finns)
QBS                   >50,000 (individual
CQ
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact
the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
Procurement notices. The General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development Business
Forum at least 60 days prior to the issue of bid documents. Specific Procurement Notices in accordance
with the guidelines will be issued before shortlists with respect to consulting contracts above USD 200,000.
Procurementplanning. The Procurement Planning Schedules covering goods, works and consultancy
services are prepared to the extent feasible. Given that the individual proposals to be financed will be
defined later (during project implementation), the major part of the procurement planning cannot be defined
at this stage. For some components (Project Management), and for the first 18 months of operation, the
procurement plans are defined and are included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) in draft final form
by Board approval and in final form by credit effectiveness.
Implementation arrangements. The three key institutions involved in the project are: (a) the Ministry
(MSTVT); (b) the training authority (TEVETA); and (c) the training institutions (21 are covered by this
project initially). Each of them has a role in procurement.
However, the overall coordination of the program implementation will be carried out by the
Program Co-ordination Office (PCO) which will include the Procurement Unit (PU).
Of the 21 former MSTVT-institutions involved in training, 3 are expected to obtain ZNTB
certification for conducting procurement up to USD 4,000. Even if this threshold can be raised
after enhancing their procurement capacity, these 3 institutions will depend upon the PU in
MSTVT for the major part of the procurement which is of high value. The rest of the 21
institutions do not have any procurement expertise and will depend upon the PU in MSTVT to
conduct all their procurement, in the first instance.
The PU shall carry out procurement of all contracts above the thresholds delegated to the
institutions (thus mainly large and medium size contracts, but also smaller ones) and provide
procurement support to the beneficiary training institutions and to TEVETA.
Role and responsibilities ofPU. The PU shall be responsible for the overall procurement
monitoring and co-ordination for the whole project.
Procurement capacity building in the training institutions and in TEVETA in order for them to carry out
their own procurement is an important role for PU which will be managed through a consultant contract to
be awarded within 6 months. Once the institutions have achieved the required procurement capacity to
carry out the procurement then the institutions shall seek certification by ZNTB. The guidelines and
procedures for certification shall be developed by the Procurement Unit in conjunction with the Zambia
National Tender Board.
PU will have periodic procurement audits conducted through consultants to monitor the quality and
effectiveness of the procurement at all levels in the project. These will be shared with IDA for further
- 77 -



corrective actions, as needed.
Preparation of the Procurement Procedures Manual is responsibility of PU. This manual is under
preparation where these guidelines shall be provided. It will be completed by May 31, 2001.
Responsibility of beneficiary institutions etc. Each component manager and the beneficiary learning
institution shall be responsible for identifying the procurement needs which will be submitted to the
Procurement Unit for consolidation
Staffing ofPUand support arrangement. The PU in MSTVT currently comprises a Procurement
Director assisted by two Procurement Officers. Given the substantial workload expected, three
additional procurement officers will be recruited and in position within 3 months.
As capacity is built up in the institutions, some staff from the PU may be eligible to move to
TEVETA and the training institutions, if no longer needed in the PU.
PUand the institutions. The management ofthe procurement process for Institutions civil works,
goods and consultancy assignments is the responsibility of the procurement units (where they exist
ad have been certified) with oversight from the PU. However, enhancement of procurement skills
of the staff in the institutions will be undertaken by PU through a consultancy contract as explained
above.
The thresholds set for the institutions will be reviewed periodically in relation to the capacity
gamered and revised upwards as needed, in consultation with ZNTB and IDA such that only cases
above these thresholds will require prior review by PU and/or IDA.
Decentralized thresholds for procurement by institutions. The thresholds for procurements for the
various institutions are presented below.
Table Bi: Thresholds for Procurement at Different Levels
Procurement Level             Items        Thresholds (US Dollars)
MSTVT                           Civil Works           Over 4,000
Goods                Over 4,000
Consultancy           Over 4,000
TEVETA                          Civil Works           Up to 4,000
Goods                Up to 4,000
Services             Up to 4,000
Training Institutions           Civil Works           Up to 4,000
(Selected Beneficiary Institutions)  Goods            Up to 4,000
Consultancy          Up to 4,000
- 78 -



Capacity Assessment and related issues. A procurement capacity assessment has revealed lack of
procurement capacity at all these institutions thus the need for strengthening such capacity. The PU in the
Ministry (MSTVT) has very limited experience in procurement of Bank-financed projects. Therefore,
capacity building in PU also will be required in order to ensure that procurements are carried out in
accordance with the Bank procurement procedures and guidelines. TEVETA and most of the beneficiary
training institutions are not certified and the procurement capacity in these institutions is either very limited
or non-existent. A procurement consulting firm is to be engaged to provide procurement support for
coordination and monitoring (procurement review/audits) and to carry out capacity building of all the
institutions. A major part of the consultancy services assignment shall be to carry out training. The
procurement consulting firm shall assist the Procurement Unit in setting up procurement reporting systems
and developing the certification guidelines and procedures. In addition, if needed and in consultation with
IDA, the Procurement Consultancy firm will also provide services to assist the institutions to carry out
procurements.
Overall procurement risk assessment: High
Risk mitigation measures. (a) Enhance staffing of PU, (b) train up PU staff and staffing
institutions using a consultant firm, (c) periodic procurement audits
Frequency ofprocurement supervision missions proposed One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits). In addition, the Country Office will review
procurement progress every three months.
- 79 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Goods                                       2.28               100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
Works                                       1.00                100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
Consultant Services                         2,00                          100%
Training grants for subprojects             9.50                100% of amounts disbursed
Staff development & other training          2.00                          100%
costs
Bursaries                                   1.00                100% of amounts disbursed
Operating costs                             2.00                          90%
Refunding of PPF                            0.59                          100%
Unallocated                                 4.63
Total Project Costs                         25.00
Total                                       25.00
Allocation of credit proceeds (see Table C). The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over a penod of
about five years, to be completed by June 30, 2006. The Credit closing date would be December 31, 2006
(i.e., six months after project completion date). Disbursements would be made against the categories of
expenditure presented in Table C above and in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's
Disbursement and LACI Implementation Handbooks. Disbursement against the categories Training Grants
for Subprojects and Bursaries will be made according to guidelines developed in the FMPM and under the
Training Fund and agreed to by IDA.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) for contracts and
purchase orders with individual values less than those requiring IDA's prior review. All applications to
withdraw proceeds of the Credit will be fully documented, except for expenditures against contracts with an
estimated value of: (a) USD 100,000 or less for goods and consulting firms; (b) USD 50,000 or less for
individual consultants; (c) USD 250,000 or less for works; and (d) training and operating costs.
Documents supporting these expenditures will be retained by the PCO and made available for review when
requested by IDA supervision mission and the Program auditors. All disbursements are subject to the
conditions of the DCA and procedures stated in the disbursement letter.
It is expected that appointment of the Finance Manager, establishment and development of the Program's
financial management system will facilitate conversion of the Program from the traditional to the
PMR-based disbursement procedures within eighteen (18) months of the Program's effectiveness. These
disbursement procedures were discussed at negotiations.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements and ensure a timely release of funds for the program activities, GRZ will
- 80 -



establish and maintain: (a) an SA in US dollars in a commercial bank under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA; and (b) a Project Account in kwacha also in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA for
GRZ's counterpart funds, with an initial deposit of USD 70,000 equivalent. The PCO will be responsible
for the management of the SA and PA.
Disbursement arrangements (90-day advance)
Due to the decentralized nature of the program, it is proposed that TEVETA and the accredited training
institutions will be provided with accountable 90-day advances in US dollars. The financial capability of
the Authority and the institutions will be assessed by the MSTVT with extemal assistance over the course
of the first year of the project. The 90-day advances will be made from the SA in accordance with
approved annual work plans for training and training support programs, and procedures to be documented
in the FMPM and subsequently in the Training Fund procedures.
The advancees will account for the advances to the PCO on a monthly basis. Initial allocations will be
USD 50,000 each. Replenishment of the advances will be based on submission of replenishment requests
with appropriate supporting documents.
Auditing
The auditing arrangements are detailed in Annex 14, Financial Management Action Plan.
- 81 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ZAMBIA: Technical Education Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Development
Program Support Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       30                           28
First Bank mission (identification)              01/01/99                     05/19/99
Appraisal mission departure                      01/10/2001                   01/09/2001
Negotiations                                    03/26/2001                    03/26/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2001                    10/01/2001
Prepared by:
Paud Murphy
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Paud Murphy                       Task Team Leader, Lead Education Specialist, AFTH 1
Amit Dar                          Senior Economist, HDNSP
Clement Siamatowe                 Social Sector Specialist, AFTZM
Fenwick Chitalu                   Financial Management Specialist, AFTZM
Jon Lauglo                        Senior Education Specialist, AFTHD
Marilou Bradley                   Social Assessment Analyst, AFTH4
Brighton Musungwa                 Financial Management Specialist, AFTZM
Kym Davis                          Logframe Specialist, Consultant
Lindsay Falkov                    Skills Development Specialist, Consultant
Robert Murray                     Institutional Development Specialist
Terry Corcoran                    Labor Market Economist, Consultant
Oliver Campbell White             Senior Private Development Specialist, AFTP 1
Vanessa Saldahna                  Operational Support, AFTH1
Bruce Jones                       Senior Economist, AFTH1
Tony Hegarty                      Financial Management Specialist, AFTQK
Eli Orbach                        Institutional Capacity Analyst, AFTH3
Bwalya Mumba                      Procurement Officer, AFTZM
Carla Bertoncino                  HD Economist, AFTH1
Tony Quimlan                      Institution Development Specialist, Consultant
Vijay Gupta                       Financial Analyst, Consultant
- 82 -



Quality Assurance Group
Arvil van Adams      Sector Manager, AFTH4
Adriaan Verspoor     Former Lead Education Specialist, AFTHD
Robert McGough       Sr. Education Specialist, EASHD
Hong Tan             Lead Economist, WBIID
Richard Cambridge    Lead Economist, AFTQK
- 83 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ZAMBIA: Technical Education Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Development
Program Support Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Strategy Paper for Technical Education, Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) in Zambia, by
VEET Task Force, September 1996
Strategy Paper for Technical Education, Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) in Zambia, by
VEET Task Force, March 1997
TEVET Policy, MSTVT, GRZ, March 1996
GRZ Act No. 13 to Establish TEVET Authority & to Regulate Training Institutions, April 24, 1998
The Technical Educational Education, Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training Bill, 1998
Consultant's Report on Current & Planned Provision of Vocational Education & Training in Zambia,
Quinlan, W., January 2001
Provision of Entrepreneurship Training, Strengthen Skills Training, ESIP Secretariat, June 1997
Strengthen Formal Skills Training Institutions, Strengthen Skills Training, ESIP Secretariat, March 1997
Expand & Improve Non-Fornal Skills Training, Strengthen Skills Training, ESIP Secretariat, March 197
Project Document, Skills Training & Entrepreneurship Development, Zambia, Danida, March 1997
Skills and Change: Constraints & Innovation in the Reform of Vocational Education & Training, Zambia,
Fred Fluitmnan & Wim Alberts, The World Bank, Intemational Labour Office
Project Proposal for Multi-Bilateral Financing "Establishment of a "Skills Training cum Production Centre
in the Gem Processing Sector", ILO, August 1999
TEVET Implementation Plan 2001 to 2006 (Draft), MSTVT
Proposals of ILO Mission Consultants for the Integration of Know About Business (KAB), Start Your
Business (SYB) and Improve Your Business (IYB) Programmes, Gwasira, Ponde, Manu, July 1997
Debriefing Note, Sector Programme Support for TEVET Danida Pre-Appraisal, February 2000
Overview of Training Sub-sector Investment Programme in Zambia, MSTVT, May 1998
Analysis of Private Training Provisions Reports Vol. 1: Field Findings & Recommendations, Changa
Management Services, June 2000
Analysis of Private Training Provisions Reports Vol. II: Inventory of Private Training Institutions, Changa
Management Services, June 2000
Report on the Logical Framework Workshop for the TDP GRZ, MSTVT, April 2000
Report on Tracer Study of DTEVT Graduates, M. Lemba and Associates, August 2000
Report on Employer Surveys on Constraints to Operations and Growth, 1995
Estimation of Unit Costs of Training, Afro Development Services and Danida, 1999
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January/August 1996
- 84 -



and September 1997, and January 1999
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999
World Bank's Disbursement Handbook
Functions & Responsibilities of Zambian Institutions Involved in Training (Public & Autonomous
Providers, Draft One), Murray, Robert, October 2000
Design of a TEVET Fund, Falkov, Lindsay and Sondergaard, Karen, October 2000
Technical Education Vocation and Entrepreneurship Training, Sector (Programme Support Document),
2001-2006, DANIDA, December 2000
Sector Programme Support for Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET)
Component Descriptions A and B, Support for Capacity Building to TEVETA and TVTC, DANIDA,
November 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Constructing a Financial Model for a Feasibility Study of TEVET Development, World Bank 1999
Spreadsheet model for Estimating Retums to TDP Sensitivity and Risk Analysis, World Bank 2000
Training Levies: Rationale and Evidence from Evaluations, Dar, Amit and Murphy, Paud, May 2000
Report on Analysis of LCMS Survey, by Vijay Gupta, 1999
Report on Social Assessment: Access to training for the poor and disadvantaged sections of society, 2000
Assessment of Barriers to Training of the Poor, Bradley, Marilou and Participatory Assessment Group
(PAG), October 2000
Summary of TEVET Fiscal Sustainability, Dar, Amit, 2000
Economic Analysis of TDP, World Bank, 2001
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 85 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ZAMBIA: Technical Education Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Development
Program Support Project
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P003227        2001 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                       0.00     27.00                              0.00      19.35      -3.43      0.00
P050400        2000 PUB SVC CAP (PSCAP)                                  0.00     28.00                             0.00      24.60        8.03      0.00
P039016        2000 FISCSUST.CR. I                                       0.00    140.00                             O00       92.89      -15.46      0.00
P063584        2000 SociallnvestmentrFundgZAMSF)                         0.00     64.70                             0.00      56.88       -5.60      0.00
P064064        2000 MINE TOWNSHIP SERVICES PROJECT                       0.00     37.70                              0 00     32.33        5.48      0.00
P003249        1999 BASIC ED SEC INV PRG                                 0.00     40.00                             0.00      24.57       20.65     10.30
P003236        1998 NATIONAL ROAD                                       0.00      7000                              0.00      25.65       -6.71      0.00
P035076        1998 POWER REHAB                                          0.00     75.00                             0.00      62.34       61.89      1.60
P003253        1997 Environmental Support Program                       0.00      12.80                             0.00       8.73        5.96      0.00
P044324        1997 ENTERPRISE OEVELPMNT                                0.00      45.00                             0.00      30.71       32.47      9.13
P040642        1996 ERIPTA                                              0.00      23.00                             0.00       3.08        4.19      0.00
P003218        1995 AGRICULTURESECTOR I                                 0.00      60.00                             0.00       6.83       11.33      215
P003239        1995 HEALTH SECTOR                                       0.00      56.00                             5.17      15.79      25.44       0.00
P003241        1995 URBAN RESTRCT &WATER                                 0.00     33.00                             0.00        3.05       3.43      3.03
Total:        0.00     712.20                             5.17      406.80     147.66      26.20
- 86 -



ZAMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity    Quasi   Partic
1998                AEFAmakaCotton                  1.30    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.30    0.00     0.00    0.00
1994                AEF Big Five Car                0.52    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.52    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                AEF Drilltech                   0416    0.00     0.15    0.00    0.16    0.00      0.15    0.00
1999                AEF Esquire                     0.41    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.41      0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                AEF JY Estates                  0.89    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.89    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995                AEF Kaila Lodge                 0.10    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.10    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997                AEF Pentire                     0.53    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.53    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000                APC Ltd.                        2.50    0.00     0.00     0.00    1.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1972/73             Bata Shoe ZA                    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997                Finance Bank                    3.51    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.01    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               IMDHZ                            0.00    0.50     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.50     0.00    0.00
2000                KCM                             0.00    5.20   24.80      0.00    0.00    5.20      3.70    0.00
2000                Marasa Holdings                 4.60    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Nicozam                         0.00    0.30     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.30     0.00    0.00
1999/00             Zamcell                         3.30    0.44     0.00    0.00    2.30    0.44      00       0.00
Total Portfolio:         17.82    6.44   24.95      0.00     8.72    6.44     3.85    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1997               Safari Intl.                       2.00      0.00       0.75      0.00
1999               AEF Kembe Estate                   1.30      0.00       0.00      0.00
1999               AEF Mpelembe                       0.70      0.30       0.00      0.00
2000               AEF QNet                           0.34       0.00      0.08      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          4.34      0.30      0.83      0.00
- 87 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ZAMBIA: Technical Education Vocational & Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Development
Program Support Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan      Low-
Zambia      Africa   Income      Development diamond'
1999
PoDulation. mid-vear (millions)                          9.9       642      2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                       330       500        410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                         3.2       321        988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           2.5        2.6       1.9
Labor force (%J                                          2.8        2.6       2.3      GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1993-99)                                  capita                        pnrimary
Povertv (% of population betow national povertV line)     73
Urban population (% of total population)                  44        34         31
Life expectancV at birth (vears)                          45        50         60
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                 114        92         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                27        32         43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)         43        43         64
Illiteracv (% of population age 15+)                      22        39         39
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-age population)     89        78         96                Zambia
Male                                                   92         85        102                  Low-income group
Female                                                 88         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economilc ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                              3.3      4.0        3.2       3.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  14.2     10.8       16.3      17.5                      Trd
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP             45.6      26.8       26.7      22.3                       rade
Gross domestic savinaslGDP                     23.2      3.8        3.9      -1.1
Gross national savingslGDP                     15.0     -7.1       -3.6      -6.6
CurrentaccountbalancelGDP                       1.1     -5.6      -17.8     -15.8      Domestic
Interest pavments/GDP                           2.8      1.9        2.8       5.2                                   Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 91.3    168.0      215.5     206.9      Savings
Total debt service/exports                    22.1      13.6       25.8      38.1
Present value of debtlGDP                        ..       ..      170.3     125.7
Present value of debt/exports                    ..        .      575.9     454.5
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   1.1       0.2     -1.9        2.4       4.7                    Zambia
GNP per capita                       -3.2      -1 8     -5.1        2.2       2.6                    Low-income group
Exports of qoods and services        -3.1       2.9      5.0        4.9      11.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP 1%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             0
Aqriculture                                    16.5     21.2       21 2      24.6     iou
Industrv                                         ..        .       29 1      24.5       5
Manufacturing                                   .        .       13.0       12.0                               T-o          
Services                                                           49.7      50.9      -so                            9    99
Private consumption                           52.9      82.5       84.9      91.5    I-on-
Generalgovemmentconsumption                    23.9     13.7       11.2       9.6                     GDI    -OGDP
Imports of goods and services                  36.6     33.8       39.2      40.9
(average annual growth)                    1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999     Growth of exports and imports I%)
Agriculture                                     3.6      3.4        1.8      13.7    2u
Industrv                                         ..    -3.6       -11 3       -4.9    10u
Manufacturing                                   ..     3.3        1.8        2.8
Services                                         ..      5.7        4.4       5.2      a
94    975a                   9
Private consumption                             3.2      0.4       -1.3       2.6    -I0
General govemment consumption                  -3.8     -5.5      -14.8     -15.8
Gross domestic investment                      -3.6      3.3        9.3       8.7   -20
Imports of goods and services                  -2.3      1.3        4.6       1.6            -      Exports        Imports
Gross national Product                         -0.2      0.9       -2.9       4.4
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group averaoe. If data are missino, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 88 -



Zambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1979    1989        1998     1999      Inflation(%)
(% chanae)                                                                         200
Consumer prices                                9.7    127.7      24.4      26.8    150
Implicit GDP deflator                         21.3     80.9      19.6      21.7     10-
Govemment finance                                                                   so --_                              >
(% of GDP, includes cunentgrants)                                                    o
Current revenue                                 ..    18.6       18.7      17.6              94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                          ..    -4.4        1.4       2.6               -GP detlator :CP
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -6.6       -9.8    -10.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979    1989        1998     1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          1,408    1,410       816       755     1200
Copper                                              1,233       365       372
Cobalt                                        8. 64             155        95      900
Manufactures                                  ..       36       194       186
Total imports (cif)                           756      901        971      871
Food                                          ..       14       106         0      30
Fuel and energy                                ..     103        42       115
Capital goods37                                                 59        52 
93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Export prce index (f995=100)                    ..      92         70       69
Import price index (1995=100)                  55       79         87       88                  0 Exports     * Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                        ..    116          81        79
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP
(US$ millions)
Exports of goodsand services                 1,523    1,493       919      842 1
Imports of goods and services                1,212    1,281     1,253     1,169
Resource balance                              311      212       -334     -327
Net income                                    -169     -406      -215      -156
Net current transfers                        -105       -28       -27       -16
Current account balance                        37    -222        -576      -499     12
Financing items (net)                        -146      487        365      518
Chanqes in net reserves                       109      -265       211       -19    -1B
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        191      123         69        50
Conversion rate (DEC, localVUS$)               D.8    13 8    1,862 0   2,388 0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed         3,047    6,709     6,982     6,518
IBRD                                        336      501         42       33                    G 329 A 33
IDA                                           1      253      1,562     1,704              F 121
Total debt service                            340      206        247       331
IBRD                                         41        0         25        12
IDA                                           0        0         16        16
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              58      194        257      214        E: 2,895
Official creditors                          305       90        -54       66
Private creditors                             1       11        -11      -20    1"_                       _     c 1,171
Foreign direct investment                    35      164         72      163
Portfolio equity                               .                                                      0. 265
World Bank program
Commitments                                  11        0         75      213      A -IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                28        4         43      156      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         13        0         25        13     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    16        4         18      143    '
Interest payments                            29        0         16        15
Net lransfers                               -13        4          2      128
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/9/00
- 89 -



Additional
Annex 11
Statement of Sector Policy
L.     Background
The Zambian economy deteriorated substantially in the 1980s and has grown only slowly in the 1990s.
This has seriously affected its ability to generate employment for its labour force, which is growing at over
3% per annum. This failure to generate employment opportunities has been worsened by the inability of
the formal sector to absorb the increasing number of job-seekers - by 1995 the formal labour market had
shrunk significantly and less than 20% of those employed were engaged in formal sector activities - and the
lack of financial and institutional structures to support self-employment. However, the economic situation
is improving. Economic projections for the next three years indicate an average annual growth rate of
4.5%. While copper will remain critical for export earnings and basic agriculture will be essential for
subsistence for many Zambians, there are other areas of hope. High value agriculture and agro-industries,
tourism and specialized services have been identified as potential growth areas, and early indications from
these sectors suggest reasons to be optimistic.
An educated, well trained and flexible workforce is critical for this growth. According to current trends it
is obvious that the creation of new employment opportunities cannot keep up with the demand of the
growing labour market and the population growth. Therefore, a large section of the labour force- if not the
majority-has to be prepared for self-employment or employment in the informal sector. This demand will be
satisfied not only through incorporating Entrepreneurship Education into the TEVET system but also
through offering short term training opportunities for the self-employed or entrepreneurs in basic
management techniques and in expanding their technical skills.
The present training system was set up and regulated by the 1970 Technical Education and Vocational
Training Act and had been designed to meet the needs of the formal sector within Zambia's then expanding
economy. Currently, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training (MSTVT) has
responsibility for developing and facilitating training policy affecting other sector ministries offering
training (e.g. Schools for Continuing Education under the Ministry of Education) as well as the private "for
profit" and voluntary providers and (until January 2000) was also responsible for directly administering 23
training institutions. Currently, also about 7,000 full-time and about 2,000 part-time students are being
trained in govemment institutions while approximately 15,000 more are being trained in private for profit
and voluntary- administered institutions. In addition, some large firms provide their own training
programs.
II.    Issues Facing the Training Sector
There are many issues facing the training sector. If the current situation in the sector is allowed to persist,
there is little scope for Zambia's training system to respond to the skills requirements of a growing
economy. The drop in demand for formal sector skills, and thereby a perceived higher demand for skills
development in the informal sector, has not led to an appropriate response in the training system - public
sector institutions continue to produce technical manpower targeted at formal industries. Furthermore,
faced with a tight budget constraint, the Government has not been able to fulfill its financial commitment to
the public training system. This has led to the following situation:
Staff salaries and morale are low;
*      Non-salary resources are almost exclusively being spent on student welfare expenditures;
Students contribute little to their direct training costs;
- 90 -



Investments in training materials and capital are negligible;
*      Quality of training is declining;
*      Information on training provision is limited; and
*      There is little involvement of employers in the public training system.
Consequently, publicly-provided training has not been responsive to market demand. Private training
providers [including non-governmental organizations (NGO) and other not-for-profit providers] face
numerous constraints such as:
Limited access to capital;
Competition with subsidized public providers; and
*      Higher fees to have students participate in examinations.
Almost invariably, successful private providers have benefited from government or donor support in the past.
Throughout the 90s, the Government financial involvement in the training sector has been modest,
oscillating around an average of 4-5% of the total envelope for education. No direct public financial
support has been channeled to private providers. Even under these circumstances, there is a significant
shortfall in funding. In 2000, Government allocated close to $7 million for training activities in MSTVT
(inclusive of salaries for staff, operations of the Department of VET, TEVETA and the 23 training
institutions). Of this amount, the Ministry received about $4.2 million- hence 60% of the allocated amount.
T'his was consistent with the allocations over the last few years. While the 2001 budget is still under
discussion, indications are that MSTVT will be allocated slightly more resources- about $7.3 million.
These numbers are approximately equal to 0.8% of the Government's discretionary budget.
Other problems with the financing of the system are that the financing mechanisms leave institutions with
little incentives to respond to market demand. Financing is not targeted to courses or trainees nor is it
provided for pedagogical materials or equipment. In accordance with the cash budget, available resources
are first provided for salaries, next for grants in-aid and last for grants, including those to training
institutions. The mechanism that the government uses to decide on funding between different providers, is
not linked to any performance criteria or on whether institutions are responding to demand - rather, public
institutions are funded by the government on an ad-hoc basis. The process rarely involves industry,
training providers or other stakeholders in discussions of appropriate allocative priorities.
Recurrent expenditures are significantly greater than revenues received from the government. Review of
the late 1990s reveals that expenditures exceed government revenues by close to 125 percent during that
period. This difference was mainly made up from student fees, donor contributions and income from
production units.
Not only does this chronic under-funding of the public training system lead to institutions preparing
graduates of poor quality and unresponsive to the needs of the labour market, it also creates an uneven
playing field between the public and private providers of training. For the reform process to work
efficiently, it is clear that institutions need to be funded in a more realistic manner.
Simulations have been conducted that attempt to match the realistic cost of providing current courses for
the entire system and supporting current student numbers with the finances likely to be available from the
Govemment and student fees. These simulations show a recurrent financing gap of about $23 million over
the next five years. If capital/developmental costs are included, the financing gap rises to about $60 million
over the same period of time.
- 91 -



Thus, it is clear that financing of the system is a crucial challenge. The government is committed to
developing a financing mechanism that will encourage demand-driven training to be provided through
public and private training institutions and financed through contributions by govemment, donors, students
and employers. This mechanism will also be used to channel funds to poor and disadvantaged groups.
III.   Government Response
To address the shortcomings of the training system, the government (in collaboration with its social
and financing partners) launched an ambitious program of reform since the mid 1990s. In August 1994,
the Minister of Science, Technology and Vocational Training appointed a widely representative national
Task Force to review Government policy on technical education and vocational training and to propose
reforms that would improve the delivery of skills training and link it to the requirements of the economy.
The objectives of the reforms proposed by the task force included:
*     Promoting demand-driven and cost effective training: Developing a training system that responds
to labour market demands and the socio-economic concerns of Zambia in a cost-effective manner.
Stakeholder Participation: Developing a training system that is built around a collaborative
partnership between the govemment and other stakeholders (e.g. employers, workers, public and
private training institutions, NGOs, donors and students) in regulation, financing and provision of
skills training.
A training system that is equitable: Developing a training system that is responsive to the issues
of equity, HIV/AIDS, gender and poverty alleviation.
This led to the preparation of a new policy, known as the Technical Education, Vocational and
Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) Policy, which was developed in 1996. The TEVET policy provided
for the following innovations in the skills training system:
Incorporation of entrepreneurship and informal sector training
Recognition of training activities conducted by NGOs, Churches, private companies, etc
Introduction of cost-sharing principles in the provision of TEVET
Promotion of demand-driven training
*     Involvement of stakeholders in the governance of training
*     Broadening of target groups to include retrenched workers, the unemployed, out of school youth,
women groups, vulnerable groups, informal sector operators, workers etc.
Following the adoption of the TEVET Policy by the government, the government prepared a strategy paper
in 1997- and the Zambian Parliament passed the TEVET Act in 1998. The Act provides legal framework
for the establishment of the Technical Education, Vocational an Entrepreneurship Training Authority
(TEVETA) and management boards of institutions.
Iv    Strategies and Actions
The government's objective is to develop a TEVET system that has the potential to improve the skills for
both the formal and informal sectors of the economy through creating a demand-driven, sustainable, high
quality, and equitable training system. The govemment is reorienting its role from being both a provider
and financier of training to a system in which its main role is that of regulating, monitoring and evaluating
and the provision of selective financing for training. MSTVT will coordinate policy formulation, monitor
and evaluate the system and provide financing to the system. The autonomous training institutions, along
with TEVETA, will be the main bodies responsible for implementing TEVET. Autonomous institutions
- 92 -



will be provided financial support based on performance and their responsiveness to labour market demand.
TEVETA will provide technical assistance to all public and private training providers, and provide relevant
information to employers and students about institutions. In addition, TEVETA will monitor standards.
The section below highlights some of the main strategies and actions that the Government, in collaboration
with donors and other stakeholders, will undertake in the medium term to deepen recent and ongoing
reforms and provide a framework for donor assisted programs in the training sector. The measures
encompass financing of the sector and activities undertaken under the following headings - Organization
and Management of TEVET; Training Systems, Trade Testing and Examination; Entrepreneurship and
Informal Sector Training; Human Resources Development; Management and Information Systems
Infrastructure and Equipment; and Cross-Cutting Issues.
(a)    Financing
Government Contribution
The solution to the problem of under-funding is to establish a financing partnership between Government,
employers and the recipients of training. For its part, Government is committed to giving the MSTVT
training institutions a grant to pay the salaries of their staff in the short term. In the long term, MSTVT will
finance TEVET through the TEVET Fund. A separate plan will be developed for Ukwimi and Kaoma
Tfls, which are still directly administered by MSTVT. The Government is also committed to maintaining
its support to the training system to, at least, the current level as a percent of both allocation and
disbursement from Government's discretionary budget - 0.8% . The Government will also introduce
appropriate legislation by 2004, which will provide for the participation of the private sector in the
financing of TEVET.
Training Fund
Government intends to shift the greater portion of the burden of the cost of training to beneficiaries
including industry, trainees and the informal sector.
A Training Fund is one means of implementing the policy regarding cost sharing in TEVET and the
government is committed to establishing the Training Fund within the next 12 months. The objective of the
Training Fund will be to test and demonstrate the demand for, and the effectiveness and efficiency of
pre-employment training as well as employer-based training supported by the fund. It will test modalities
of administering and disbursing funds; assess whether training can be more cost-effective and efficient
when itis demand-driven and training funds are competitively awarded between public and private
providers; and, through testing different modalities of private sector options for financing, demonstrate to
employers the benefits that can be derived from participating in such a fund. This will provide lessons that
will guide the establishment, location and future sources of finance for the fund and will also develop
mechanisms through which the private sector will contribute to the financing of training in the
medium-term.
(b)    Organization and Management of TEVET
TEVET is offered by a number of private and public providers. The multiplicity of providers makes it
necessary to have an organizational structure that can facilitate effective planning and coordination of
interventions in the sector to ensure rationalization and effective utilization of resources.
- 93 -



The intentions in this regard include strengthening the management of TEVET at the following
organizational levels:
The policy formulation and evaluation level;
*     The regulation and support services level; and
The TEVET providers' level.
The organization and management will be strengthened through the application of modem organizational
structures and management principles. This will include the development and implementation of sufficient
accounting and reporting procedures.
(c)    Training Systems, Trade Testing and Examinations
The current application of technical education and vocational training is based on curriculum and
certification schemes developed in the 1960s. The system is characterised by centrally developed curricula
and rigid institution based training, with litfle or no provision for flexible progression between the levels of
training.
The new policy provides for the introduction of a flexible training system, accommodating different modes
of training such as apprenticeship, institution-based training, distance vocational training and a hybrid of
two or more of these.
Introduction of demand driven training will entail retraining and re-equipping of curriculum developers and
examiners. And strengthening the linkages between TEVET clients and TEVET providers by inviting the
end users of the TEVET graduates to participate in determining the contents of the curricula and the tests.
The application of up-to-date training principles and utilising the equipment and tools as are used in the
economy in general, requires that the providers shall charge economic fees that will enable them to maintain
sophisticated equipment and good instructors. The fees will be paid through a combination of sources such
as e.g. direct student fees, contributions from training fund and supplemented by income from other
activities. Although training institutions will be tempted to hike user fees immediately, the ideal thing
would be for the fees to be adjusted gradually commensurate with improvements to the quality of training.
(d)    Entrepreneurship and Informal Sector Training
The training system has, in the past, ignored entrepreneurial skills since the system was designed to meet
the needs of the formal sector as perceived in the late sixties. With the shrinkage of the formal sector, the
training- system must be re-oriented to include training for self-employment.
The TEVET system requires structures and systems for the promotion of an entrepreneurship culture and
training for informal sector operators. Such structures have been set up on pilot basis and experiences are
presently being collected.
The TEVET policy provides for the incorporation of entrepreneurship training in the curriculum to prepare
the trainees for both wage employment and self-employment.
Through the TDP, resources are being sought to assist training providers to design and offer skills-training
programmes targeting the informal sector operators in order to improve the quality of the goods and
services of the sector.
- 94 -



(e)    Human Resources Development
The TEVET policy requires staff that posses the necessary technical qualifications, industrial experience,
teaching competence and entrepreneurship awareness.
The intended interventions for human resource development include the following:
Strengthening capacity of staff responsible for planning and coordinating TEVET in line ministries
with training portfolios;
Improving capacity of TEVETA staff to offer support services to training providers;
Improving capacity of governance arrangements, e.g. management boards, trustees, advisory
boards, etc.;
Strengthening capacity of managers and administrators of training; and
Improving the practical and professional skills of lecturers and instructors with emphasis on
continuous development of the same.
The declining resources for the training sector over the years have had a negative effect on virtually all staff
categories in the TEVET system. Massive HRD programmes need to be programmed and initiated and,
where the existing personnel prove un-trainable, methods of replacement must be found.
(t)   Infrastructure and Equipment
The existing physical infrastructure for TEVET and associated support services are characterised by
extreme levels of dilapidation and resource inadequacy. This condition inhibits implementation of the
TEVET policy. It is necessary to address the problem through rehabilitation of facilities, re-equipment of
institutions and the provision of leaming materials and other consurnables.
This is a problem that affects virtually all the training providers in the country. Since it is not possible -
physically, organisationally or financially - to engage in physical rehabilitation of all training facilities at
once, priorities must be made and the sequence in which the rehabilitation process progresses must be
determined.
The rehabilitation of infrastructure and installation of the appropriate equipment shall be coordinated with
the modemisation of training programmes and the development of the professional resources and capacities
of the training providers.
(g)    TEVETInformation System
Effective implementation of any policy calls for generation and processing of data to create appropriate
information essential for quality decision-making. Currently, there is no reliable Management Information
System within the sector. Therefore, an effective TEVET Management Information System will be
developed and implemented.
Infrastructure related to lines of communication is of paramount importance for collection and
dissemination of relevant information at all levels. Much emphasis will be put on the development of
adequate and proper system appliances and the appropriate use of the TEVET Information System.
- 95 -



(h)    Cross-cutting Issues
Crosscutting issues need to assume prominence in TEVET system. These issues include the following:
HIV/AIDS;
Environmental Protection;
Occupational Health;
Gender;
Disabilities.
Among these issues, HV/AIDS has been recognized as a significant cross-cutting issue. Since the effects
of this pandemic are devastating in terms of capacity building, measures will be taken to reduce loss of
qualified staff at all levels of the TEVET sector. This requires policy development on HWV/AIDS focusing
on awareness, prevention and impact mitigation, and a measured over-production of staff at all levels.
Crosscutting issues will be incorporated in the planning of TEVET interventions and key players will be
made aware of the importance of these issues in order to ensure that appropriate aggressive strategies are
put in place to address the issues.
The TEVET policy intends to provide equitable training provision for all, including the socially
disadvantaged groups such as women and disabled persons.
To carry out the necessary programmes to implement crosscutting issues will require certain expertise and
other resources not currently available in the system.
v      Conclusion
The intended reform of the training system will reap significant rewards for Zambia. The training system
will become more demand-driven, efficient and cost-effective. These reforms are intended to lead to
improved student outcomes in terms of graduation and employment rates through making institutions more
responsive to the demands of the economy. Through the proposed reforms, training providers will be able
to compete for funds on a level playing field. The govemment will also adapt its role from being a
financier and provider of training to that of selective financier, regulator and provider of information on
training.
In terms of equity, the reforms will ease access to training for poor and disadvantaged students. More
emphasis will be placed on providing skills for the informal sector. These reforms will also lead to
enhanced social responsiveness, through greater involvement and participation of civil society in the
identification and delivery of training.
- 96 -



Additional
Annex 12
Functions and Responsibilities of Zambian Institutions Involved in Training
(Public and Autonomous Providers)
1. Broad responsibilities of MSTVT, TEVETA and the Management Boards of autonomous
(ex-MSTVT) training institutions
The TEVET (Technical education, vocational training and entrepreneurship training) Act of 1998 defines
the functions to be performed by TEVETA, MSTVT and the institutions. The functions listed in the Act
are specific, and there are no obvious duplications or areas of confusion, with the possible exception of the
monitoring functions of MSTVT (policy adherence) and TEVETA (training standards).
(a)  The functions of MSTVT
(i) Making sector policy
(ii) Drafting and legislating legal statutes for the training sector
(iii) Budgetary facilitation
(iv) Establishment and closure of training institutions and their management boards
(b)  The functions of TEVETA
(i) Advisory assistance to sector stakeholders
(11) Regulatory authority
(iii) Administrative support in specified areas
(c)  The functions of the Management Boards of Autonomous (ex-MSTVT) training institutions
(i) Training provision
(ii) Development of cost recovery tools like tuition fees
(iii) Developing curricula
(iv) Hiring top level management of institutions
(v) Observing policy and regulations
2. Statutory functions of MSTVT, Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training
Authority (TEVETA) and Management Boards
(a) TEVETA
The functions of TEVETA were formally defined under Part II of the TEVET Act of 1998. We quote:
"To regulate, monitor and coordinate technical education, vocational and entrepreneurship training in
consultation with industry, employers, workers, and other stakeholders"
(i)   Advise the minister on the development of the quality of human resources in Zambia through
technical education, vocational and entrepreneurship training
(ii)  Regulate and advise management boards
(iii) Regulate and co-ordinate apprenticeship and trade testing facilities
(iv)  Provide technical consultancy to management boards and private training institutions
(v)  Promote the technical capacity of management boards
(vi)  Develop the national curricula in consultation with all stakeholders
(vii) Set minimum standards and qualifications for any occupation, skill, technology or trade for
- 97 -



institutions in accordance with developments in industry
(viii) Provide guidelines for the developments of institutional curriculum (sic)
(ix)  Approve examinations to be taken by persons attending courses at an institution established or
registered under this act
(x)  Regulate and conduct national examinations relating to technical education, vocational and
entrepreneurship training
(xi)  Charge and collect fees in respect of examinations and other services provided by the authority
(xii) Award certificates to persons who succeed in examinations set under this act
(xiii) Guide institutions in preparing rules for the recruitment of students and teachers
(xiv) Approve curricula and standards of certificates in institutions established or registered under this act
(xv) Register institutions -- Part IV ..the power to:
a)  Issue certifications or registrations if satisfied that
(i) The technical education, vocational and entrepreneurship training meets the standards set
(ii) The premises are suitable
(iii) There are adequate finances to maintain the institution
(iv) The proprietor (of a private institution) is a fit or proper person or body of persons
(v) The teaching staff are properly qualified
b)  Reject applications
c)  Indicate what requirements have still to be met for registration
d)  Maintain a register of institutions and gazette a list of registered institutions at regular
intervals
(xvi) Cancel the registration of an institution established or registered under this act should
cancellation be necessary
(xvii) Do all such things connected with or incidental to the functions of the authority under this act
(xviii)Appoint inspectors with respect to institutions who shall
a)   Inspect books or documents relating to training
b)   Enter any institution
The "minister" is the Minister responsible of Science, Technology and Vocational Training (MSTVT),
even though TEVETA has a mandate that spans several ministries."
(b) MSTVT
The ministries' TEVET related functions were outlined by the Government's strategy paper for TEVET
released on March 1997.
We quote from page 32:
"Under the new organization, the MSTVT will continue to be responsible for policy formulation and
monitoring, and appraisal of Govemment projects. More specifically, the MSTVT will perform the
following functions vis-a-vis technical education, vocational and entrepreneurship training:
(i)  formulation and provision of policy guidelines to MSTVT institutions; NTA (NB: now
TEVETA), and management boards on student selection, fees, human resource development, etc.
(ii)  setting out the legal framework within which TEVET works
- 98 -



(iii)  monitoring and evaluating TEVET policy implementation
(iv)  facilitating NTA and MSTVT institutional budgeting process
(v)  establishing new institutions
(vi)  monitoring the maintenance of MSTVT institutional buildings and other infrastnicture
(vii) appointing board members
(viii) soliciting and facilitating technical cooperation
(ix)  managing information systems to facilitate the collection, storage, retrieval, processing, and
dissemination of information"
The TEVET related functions of MSTVT were formally defined under Part V of the TEVET Act of 1998.
We paraphrase:
In consultation with the Authority, the Minister may make regulations prescribing the:
(i)   manner and form in which an application for registration and renewal of registration is made
(ii)  forms to be used by boards
(iii)  fees for registrations and renewals
(iv)  fees payable for national examinations
(v)  conditions and procedures for apprentice training
(vi)  classification of each institution
(vii) conditions under which the Authority may take over the operation of an institution whose
registration has been suspended or canceled
(viii) other regulations for the better implementation of the provisions of the act.
(c) The Management Boards
The functions and responsibilities are formally defined under Part III of the TEVET Act of 1998. The Act
says that, "The Minister shall in consultation with the authority (TEVETA) appoint not more than eleven
members of the board (of the institution)."
Further, "A management board shall
(i)  provide training in technical education, vocational and entrepreneurship training
(ii)  develop curricula for the institution
(iii) ensure that standards prescribed by the authority are maintained by the institution
(iv)  provide training for the staff of the institution
(v)  appoint a principal who shall be the chief executive officer of the institution
(vi)  administer the affairs of the institution
(vii) subject to the approval of the minister charge and collect fees for tuition, boarding and other
services provided by the institution
(viii) do all such things as the management board may consider necessary to promote technical
education, vocational and entrepreneurship training"
- 99 -



The TEVETA authority may give to the management board such general or specific directions with respect
to the discharge of its functions as may be considered necessary and the management board shall give effect
to such directions."
3. The relationships between institutions (TEVETA, MSTVT and training institutions)
There are several hundred training institutions in Zambia, many of which are in what is tenned the infornal
sector. The interface between MSTVT, TEVETA and the training institutions involves 21 fully
autonomous training institutions plus two that are not yet fully autonomous.
Autonomous training institutions are govemed by boards of directors. The directors are officially
appointed (consultatively with TEVETA) by the Minister (MSTVT), and are selected so as to be
representative of such stakeholders as employers, potential funding sources, community interests, etc. The
boards of directors appoint the principals of the training institutions. MSTVT owns the assets of its
institutions. It is in a position of line authority with respect to the boards of directors of its training
institutions, in terms of reporting, monitoring and policy.
TEVETA is the responsibility of the minister, MSTVT. However, the mandate of TEVETA extends to all
formal as well as informal training institutions and operations, thus cutting across other ministries. It also
extends to enterprises that lie outside the direct control of Government. Although TEVETA's role is
primarily advisory, its inspectorate has the powers to apply implement legal and other and procedures on
institutions and individuals in areas related to training standards.
Organization chart 1: TEVETA
Main elements of the organization structure for TEVETA
Director
Di rDirector of
Director of                                   DeveloDment
Standards
[|I hispectors   Examinations    Chief Co-office| Apprenticeship    IDS Miager              dustrial   Manager
Siecialists   & Soecialists   Coordinator      & SeiaIst     Manager &     Liaison     (Labor
Specialist    Manager    Market
Anal si
- 100 -



Organization chart 2: MSTVT
New organization structure of MSTVT
Minister & Cabinet
Permanent
Secretary
| Secretary      l
Directorates          |      Planning     |       |    Science &                  technical
Directorates   Planning                 ~~~~~~Technology            educationalFiac
l   l      l                   I       I    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~trai nin I 
arncial ystem               (proects)nne             Chief planner               Chief TEVET                Chief TEVETAcunat(3
PrncialsytmCiePlnr                                   (mronitoring &               oAciersn2)aofices (2
lyst      (projects)               ~~~~~evaluabon)ofir 2ofis(2
1                         i                                                       
Programmer (1) &                                                                   Senior TEVET &Senior TEVET
daaentry             2 Senior planners          3 Senior planners              ofiesn
operator(1)                                                                                                      officers(2)              accountants (4)             assistants(8)
- 101 -



Organization chart 3: ex-MSTVT institutions
Generic orgatnisation  structure for MST VT institutio ns
M inister of STVT
(M inistry)
P    ri  p I
H oird  of th e
In st,t uti os
C   Cn stru ctio.n,                                                                                                             Catering, Ho0stel,
Engi.       . .ing                                                                                                              or ks, Stores,,
Aade dica, Speca                                                                                                                SWorts, Rcrds
Ed uct ion,                                                                                                                     Teepho
M echonical,
E El-ctricl,                                                                                                              Securit   G ron
Automt otive, etc.e 
Organization chart 4: Different types of training institutions and their controlling/
management authority
MST_T    |     omuniy   |            Minstry of   |  inva-te-ity bahtcso              i  ofNspts  .  Other minidres
|         | | ~~~devetb,omenl&   od dcation         enterprises   || oerocisty oned  Mii| r | f sort  (e.g health)
d.-N.n  nt.,pi-. ~~~~rganisations               ~h-h
- 102 -



Organization chart 5 Functional Structure for MSTVT
Minirster
Deputy Minister
Permanent Secretary
Human Resource &     Accounts & Audit            Planning             Science & Technology       VET
Administrative
Services        .Financial          . Coordination of            * Science              .TEVET
management           ministerial policy         development            policy
formulation, monitoring    policies & strategies  formulation,
administration                            & evaluation                                      monitoring
records                                                             * Technical             &
management and                         * Sectoral investment         development            evaluation
procurement                               programs                   polices & strategies
. Human resource                         . Information system &
management &                              building inspection
development
-103 -



Additional
Annex 13
Training Fund Analysis: Report Summary
1. Introduction
The government of Zarnbia is overhauling the technical and vocational training system through the
introduction of far reaching reforms. The Ministry of Science Technology and Vocational Training
(MSTVT) has introduced a Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurial (TEVET) Act, 1998.
The Act is premised on a new training strategy based on sound vocational training govemance, funding and
delivery principles. The strategy aims to create a demand-led vocational training system that delivers skills
required by enterprises in the formal and informal sectors of the economy and that improve the
employability of school leavers, the unemployed and disadvantaged groups.
The main elements of this new demand-led training reform includes the establishment of a multi-stakeholder
National Training Authority to oversee the govemance of the new system, the Technical Education,
Vocational and Entrepreneurship Authority (TEVETA); the intention to use labor market information and
training needs analyses to improve the responsiveness of training provision to workplace skills needs;
decentralization of control over MSTVT training institutions and support for the gradual "privatization" of
these institutions; opening up equal private and public provider access to public training funds via a National
Training Fund; a commitment to increase private sector and learner contributions to the cost of training; and
the establishment of national quality assurance mechanisms to improve the quality of training delivery.
This report, compiled by a joint World Bank and DANIDA consulting Team between June and September
2000, presents a new funding strategy for training in Zambia to support the TEVET policy and strategy.
The core funding proposal is the establishment of a national TEVET Fund, which will disburse funds for
training to pre-employment and apprenticeship programs, to SME / informal sector operators and new
entrants, as well as investment funds for the rehabilitation of training provision and the development of the
capacity to implement the new TEVET policy. Various options for incorporating established private sector
companies into the TEVET strategy and the funding of training are also explored.
The report is the product of extensive stakeholder consultations in Zambia. This established the context
within which the TEVET Fund proposals were designed.
2. Current situation
This chapter describes the current situation facing the TEVET system in Zambia. Government remains the
dominant provider of training in Zambia. The Ministry of Science Technology and Vocational Training has
been the main provider of training within government, responsible for running 23 trades training institutes.
A number of other Ministries, including Education, Agriculture and Tourism, also provide training.
As far as industry is concerned, large parastatals appear to invest heavily in the training of their own
employers as do larger companies, but the general levels of investment in training by companies is
unknown. User fees are pervasive but at low levels. The recent growth in private-for-profit providers
appears to indicate a relatively high private demand for training by individual learners as well as
companies. NGO providers are the most important providers of training for disadvantaged groups as well
as those in informal sector operations, but the training appears to be poorly supported by govemment.
It is generally accepted that public sector training in Zambia has been supply driven and under-funded,
resulting in poor quality and irrelevant training provision. Consequently industry has had little interest in
employing graduates from the Ministry's training institutes.
- 104 -



The Ministry's expenditure on training is characterized by large year-on-year fluctuations as a result of the
budgetary process and an inefficient mechanism for allocating funds to the trades training institutes which
has been an important factor contributing to the low retums to public investment in training. Although a
detailed examination of training delivery by other Ministries was not undertaken, indications are that they
face similar problems.
The allocation of public funds to the informal/SME sector of the economy appears to be limited. This is
clearly a serious problem where the majority of Zambians are forced to ean a living in these sectors. As
discussed above, some companies are investing in the training of their employees. In addition, certain
established industries have initiated collective training solutions on a voluntary basis, but beyond this there
appears to be limited monetary or in-kind contributions to training by the established private sector.
3. Future challenges
This annex focuses on future challenges facing the Ministry in the implementation of the new TEVET
strategy and policy, in particular factors affecting the financing of training. Some of the more important
intemational trends drawn on include the changing role of government from provider to financier of training,
which is linked to the delegation of responsibility for managing training systems to "semi-autonomous"
government agencies that must account to the Ministry concerned for the training outputs government is
purchasing. Increasing levels of training provider autonomy has been linked to new financial incentives to
raise their accountability and performance and additional incentives are used to achieve national skills
priorities and to support training for disadvantaged leamers. In addition, different funding approaches are
relevant to different segments of the labor market, user fees are now an accepted form of revenue to cover
part of the costs of training, but need to be accompanied by mechanisms to support poor learners and fiscal
incentives are widely used to encourage greater pnrvate sector investment in training.
The main domestic factors informing the design of the TEVET Fund include, the high proportion of
employment in the informal and SME sectors, the severity of the fiscal constraint, the fact that training
must address a range of labor market segments including the pre-employed, unemployed, under-employed
and the employed. Policy decisions taken by the Ministry that informed the funding strategy include the
importance of cost sharing arrangements to support training in Zambia, the principle of open access to
public funds for training by public, private, NGO and other non-formal training providers, the need for the
funding system to promote demand-led training, as well as Government's renewed commitment to
introducing an appropriate apprenticeship system. The huge provider rehabilitation and capacity building
requirement also informed the design of the Fund.
4. Conceptual framework
The core assumption made is that the Ministry faces a huge training demand alongside a severe fiscal
constraint. Accordingly, the sources of funds for training need to be carefully considered and the allocation
of funds prioritized. This prioritization of funds must be guided by the fact that training does not create
employment, that the responsibility for funding training be appropriately apportioned between government,
the private sector, learners and donors and that, in the medium term, the major portion of recurrent training
costs must be funded by domestic revenue sources.
Bearing this in mind the report proposes that the Ministry confirm and attempt to increase its allocation
from the general budget. One way this may be done is by exploring possibilities for re-allocating votes for
training in other Ministries via the TEVET Fund. Secondly, the present debate on whether to introduce a
training levy needs to be informed by an investigation into alternative ways in which the private sector can
contribute to and complement public funds for, training.
- 105 -



Within this framework various financing sources linked to disbursement priorities across the main labor
market recipients, are examined. Accepting that donor funds will be concentrated on the "capital" and, in
the short term, a reasonably high level of the recurrent, costs of the strategy, the focus is on examining
domestic funding sources linked to disbursement priorities. Three scenarios are examined:
The first involves a TEVET Fund that is sourced entirely from general government revenues,
The second is a training levy that substitutes for general govermment revenues, and
The third is a combination of ongoing general government revenues for training and a training levy, which
is clearly the most attractive option for the training system.
In each case the degree to which the key labor market segments are addressed by domestic funding sources
is examined.
The conclusion is that, should the first or second scenario hold, the TEVET Fund will focus on
pre-employment and SME / informal sector training, with some contributions to target groups and limited
contributions to the workplace experience part of apprenticeships. The TEVET Fund will not be in a
position to address in-house company training, which will remain the responsibility of employers. Should
the third scenario hold domestic revenue available for the training of disadvantaged groups and the
workplace experience part of apprenticeships should increase. In addition, funds should be available for
allocating subsidies or grants to employers for conducting in-house training based on certain criteria. In all
three scenarios donor funds are concentrated on complementing domestic funds for the training of the
pre-employed, SME and informal sector operators as well as disadvantaged groups.
The rationale for this approach is that no country can afford to dismantle its pre-employment training
system. Since the Ministry has had primary responsibility for training this segment of the labor market, the
new strategy and the allocation of funds must prioritize this training. Secondly, the Zambian context
dictates that training for informal sector and SME operators be prioritized. Additional funds for training
disadvantaged groups must also be made available. Once these labor market segments have been
addressed, the sources of revenue will dictate whether the other employed and apprenticeship based training
beneficiaries are able to benefit directly from the fund.
5. National TEVET fund design
Global design
The design of the TEVET Fund follows the rationale presented above. The Fund consists of two main
components, an Investment Funding Window and a number of Recurrent Expenditure Funding Windows.
The latter are divided into three windows, a Pre-employment Funding Window, which is further divided
into Institutional Learning and Workplace Experience Apprenticeship Sub-Funding Windows, an
In-Service Training Funding Window and an SME / Informal Sector Funding Window.
Detailed funding mechanisms for the Pre-employment Funding Window, both the Institutional Leaming and
Workplace Experience Apprenticeship Sub-Funding Windows are presented. As far as the In-Service and
SME / Informal Sector Funding Windows are concemed, a broad overview of possible funding approaches
are described. The In-Service Funding Window depends on the outcome of the investigation into
alternative private sector contributions to the Fund, which includes the decision on whether to implement a
training levy. In terms of the SME / Informal Sector Funding Window, various funding approaches need to
be tested through pilot projects before permanent funding mechanisms can be adopted.
- 106 -



Disadvantaged groups cut across the three main labor market segments that the TEVET funding windows
focus on. Accordingly, additional incentives can be added to each of the funding mechanisms in the three
funding windows, in order to provide special support to these learners.
Governance
Govemance of the Fund should be based on a public-private partnership, the best features of modem public
service delivery modalities and run by high quality management and management systems. Proposals are
presented for goveming the TEVET Fund. Based on an assessment of the current situation two proposals
are put forward:
The first is that the Fund be located outside of TEVETA, govemed by a separate board and management
for a period of time and then transferred back under TEVETA.
The second, preferred option, is that the TEVETA Board itself be restructured, the Fund be located under
this new board, and the Fund be established and managed within TEVETA by specialist management
consultants for a specified period of time. This option would address general weaknesses in the present
TEVETA Board as well as those relating to governance of the TEVET Fund. Specifically, it is proposed
that a much smaller Board be established with equal govemment and private sector representation.
Simultaneously the Ministry should establish a TEVET Stakeholder Advisory Council to accommodate
broader stakeholder consultations, in particular, formal and regular consultations with training providers.
An overview of a new TEVET Fund governance model is presented. This involves establishing
performance-based governance, training management and delivery model. The model is premised on
devolving authority for managing the training system to the TEVETA Board / Funding Authority and
increased autonomy for training providers alongside new accountability mechanisms which govem the
relationship between the Ministry, TEVETA / the Funding Authority and training providers.
Funding Window la - pre-employment institutional training
The main proposal in the report is for the introduction of a "Formula-based Funding Mechanism" for
pre-employment training. The formula-based funding window replaces an inefficient input-based funding
mechanism used to date by the Ministry. The formula funding mechanism will focus on school leavers with
a grade 12 level of educational attainment. Funds will be allocated directly to a select number of accredited
training providers that offer recognized learning programs towards full or partial qualifications. These
providers will be expected, over time, to increase training in support of learner entry into the SME or
informal sectors.
A formula-based funding mechanism addresses both the need for more stable year-on-year funding essential
for providers offering pre-employment training, since it facilitates better planning and budgeting, and
contains strong performance based funding elements in support of greater accountability by providers for
the training they deliver. The formula also accommodates a range of training objectives and priorities --
efficiency, effectiveness and equity -- through a single funding mechanism. While the design and
establishment of the formula based mechanism is relatively complex, once established with the relevant
guidelines and computer packages containing the formula, its implementation should be simpler and clearer
than the present funding mechanism.
In addition, the formula funding approach involves greater reliance on market-based incentives to achieve
national objectives and priorities than on labor market information and national and local planning
exercises. This is important in a context of limited labor market and skills information and planning
capacity weaknesses.
- 107 -



The funding formula consists of a subsidy and user fees component. User fees will cover a portion of the
unit costs of all programs. The subsidy part comprises six elements:
The focus is on learning programs, i.e., the standard cost of different learning programs.
The units of activity, which means the specific inputs or outputs against which funding will be allocated
including learner enrollments, achievement, placement and profile.
Cost-based tariffs will be used to determine the rates at which learning programs are funded.
Stability, which will be based on three year rolling contracts with selected providers. A certain portion of
the overall allocation to a provider will be guaranteed for the following years in the three-year contract,
subject to adequate enrollment and output performance. Towards the end of each three- year contract a full
review may be undertaken to determine whether or not the Funding Authority will extend the contract.
Equity is best addressed through a fee remission mechanism, which providers can be reimbursed for if
considered a priority by the Ministry.
Skills priorities identified by the Ministry can be addressed by adding a premium for these programs in the
formula.
Addressing specific disadvantaged groups is accommodated in the learner profile part of the unit of
activity discussed above.
The allocation mechanism linked to the funding formula is premised on institutional strategic plans and
funding contracts. The Funding Authority will be expected to publish all guidelines and information
required by providers to develop their strategic plans. Providers must plan their activities focusing on
enrollment, achievement, placement and leamer profile targets and will then use the formula, contained in a
standard software package, to determine their budget. A planning review process within the Authority will
follow and funding contracts drawn up for each provider. Negotiations between the Funding Authority and
providers on the final allocation may be necessary and the final contract must be signed. The roles of the
Ministry, Funding Authority and training providers in the planning, budgeting, reporting and evaluation
process linked to the funding formula are addressed in the report.
Funding Window lb - workplace experience part of apprenticeships
The focus here is on specific incentives to increase workplace experience opportunities linked to the
theoretical tuition part of an apprenticeship program. Since employer willingness to offer training places to
learners in their workplaces is the key determinant of the success of these systems, some financial incentive
for employers is important. However, the extent to which this part of apprenticeship programs is
subsidized by the Fund depends on whether or not the private sector contributes directly to the TEVET
Fund.
The report proposes that an "apprenticeship cash grant scheme" be used to fund training under this
window. The funds will be allocated to the provider delivering the theoretical tuition and it is then
incumbent upon the provider to work out payment with each employer offering workplace experience to
their learners. To satisfy the employer this agreement can be structured into the apprenticeship contract.
The detailed mechanism is presented in the report.
Funding Window 2- in-house training
As discussed above, mechanisms for disbursing funds from this window are not presented in the report,
pending the outcome of an investigation into private sector contributions to the Fund.
- 108 -



One of the main concerns of the private sector is the poor training record of most MSTVT training
institutions, which has resulted in employers ignoring the graduates of these institutions. Accordingly they
are loathed to contribute directly to a fund that will simply continue allocating funds to these providers in
the old way. The formula funding approach should alleviate some of these concerns. In addition, the main
proposal in the report is that the Ministry encourages the main economic sectors to consider direct
participation in the governance and management of sector specific training institutions. Initiatives of this
kind have taken place in Horticulture, which is an excellent example of a collective training initiative by the
private sector, and both the Construction and the Hospitality and Tourism sectors have initiatives underway
that could be supported as pilot projects with a view to extending the approach to other sectors.
Funding Window 3 -- the SME & informal sectors
These are very diverse sectors and there are no well-developed approaches to funding training in these
sectors, particularly in Zambia. A single "one-size-fits-all" approach to funding and delivering training in
these sectors is not appropriate. Accordingly, this section attempts to provide an organizing framework
within which new funding approaches and delivery mechanisms for the sectors can be tested. This includes
defining sub-sectors within these sectors more clearly, proposing a specific focus within these sub-sectors
for the Ministry and TEVET Fund, and addressing key issues that need to be taken into account when
developing new funding approaches for these sectors.
More specifically the section proposes that this Funding Window be broken down into a Market / Business
Oriented sub-Window and a Self-employed / "Survivalist" sub-Window. A major theme is the need to
establish intermediaries that are able to plan for, manage, and disburse training funds directly to training
providers operating in these sectors. The intermediaries would address the constraints facing the Funding
Authority in disbursing money directly to service providers operating in these sectors, and act as network
agencies that support the provision of a range of services required by SME and informal sector operations.
This approach draws on current initiatives in these sectors in Zambia. Initial ideas on the disbursement
modalities for this Funding Window are then explored.
6. Management & administration of the TEVET Fund
The management and administration of the TEVET Fund includes the principles of financial management
and administration, the main elements of the administrative systems, human resource and equipment
requirements and the parameters of the financial systems that need to be established, including their link to
a management information system.
The specific financial management and administrative requirements of the various Funding Windows are
then discussed. This is divided into two parts. The first focuses on an Investment Funding Window and
the second on the management and administration of funds in the recurrent Funding Windows. The
Investment Funding Window will support the rehabilitation of training institutions, capacity building for
personnel in the Ministry, Funding Authority, trainers, training center Board members, management and
administrators as well as the design and establishment of all the systems required to implement the new
TEVET policy. Since Donors will be primarily responsible for funding these elements of the new policy,
the design of this Window focuses on their requirements.
It is proposed that the management of recurrent training funds be dealt with under a "Training Section",
comprising technical assessment and financial administration sub-sections. The general requirements for
administering these funds are presented. The main problem here is the manner in which different sources of
funds for recurrent training expenditures are accounted for by the Fund. Two options are presented, the
first is based on a Basket Funding approach where all money is located in a single Fund bank account while
the second is based on Window Funding, where a bank account is opened for each of the sources of funds.
The strengths and weaknesses of each approach are addressed.
- 109-



The final section addresses the specific administrative requirements for the Pre-employment Funding
Window.
7. Monitoring, evaluation & conclusion
Finally, a framework to guide the development of a Monitoring & Evaluation system for the TEVET Fund
and strategy, as well as a list of initial steps to begin implementing the proposals, are presented.
- 110-



Additional
Annex 14
Financial Management Action Plan
1. General
The Ministry of Science Technology and Vocational Training (MSTVT) has responsibility for the
oversight of all training in Zambia. MSTVT will establish a Program Steering Committee (PSC) to
oversee all aspects of implementation of the TEVET Development Program (TDP). MSTVT will also
establish a PCT comprising the TDP Program Coordinator and TDP Component Coordinator, including
Finance and Procurement Managers. Under the supervision of the Program Coordinator, the Finance
Manager will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures will be
acceptable to the Government, the World Bank and other Cooperating Partners.
The principal objective of the TDP's financial management system (FMS) will be to support management
in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness
in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the needs of the people of
Zambia. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable
financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the Program's
overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives. For the TDP to fully deliver on those
objectives, its FMS will be developed in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented
in Section B below.
2. Financial Management Action Plan
Financial Management and Procurement Committee (FMPC)
Reporting to the PSC via the Permanent Secretary of the MSTVT, a representative FMPC will be
appointed to review the quarterly Program Management Report (PMR) comprising:
Financial Statements, as discussed below. Members of the FMPC will review and approve Quarterly and
Annual Financial Statements; they will examine material variances between budget and actual figures,
seeking appropriate remedial action within an agreed timeframe.
Program Progress, i. e. Output Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the OMR will need
to be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying narrative interpreting the
Program's progress with agreed financial performance indicators and how costs to date relate to those
planned at appraisal, and the likely effect on the Program by completion.
ProcurementManagement Report (including Goods, Works and Services). See Annex 6.
Staffing
An intemationally qualified Finance Manager will be appointed to direct and guide the financial operations.
A Financial Advisor will be appointed and relevantly qualified and experienced support staff will be
available. Varying levels of staff training may be required in financial, management and government
accounting; information systems and computer applications; and procedures relating to the utilization of
funds (e.g. Special Accounts, SOEs, Special Commitments, Procurement, etc.). On-the-job coaching will
be provided.
- 111 -



Accounting system/financialprocedures/internal audit
A Financial Management Consultant will be retained to advise on the selection and installation of the
Program's computerized FMS (using an integrated accounts package), to prepare the Program's Financial
Management and Procurement Manual (FMPM) and to train staff in the operation of the system. Provision
has been made in the budget for hardware and software requirements. Also, Program activities will be
periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Department, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
(MOFED).
Planning and budgeting
Counterpart Funding will be approved in line with the Government's budgetary process. The Finance
Manager, in consultation with the Procurement Manager and the FMPC, will be responsible for preparing
the Program's Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast in line with generally accepted accounting practice.
Government accounting - cash Versus accruals bases
The TDP will meet the MOFED requirement for cash accounting. This requirement is not expected to
change in the short to medium-term. Thus, for the foreseeable future, Program funds will be accounted for
on a cash basis. In due course, the FMPC will decide whether to convert to an accruals basis of accounting
for management reporting purposes (whilst maintaining a cash basis for Government reporting purposes).
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services.   Procurement procedures will be documented in the
FMPM. World Bank and Government procurement regulations will be observed. The Finance Manager
and support staff must be conversant with those procedures, as internal control issues and the incurring of
liabilities on behalf of the Program will be matters of concern to the financial management function. A
Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will be prepared
quarterly for consideration by the FMPC (see above).
Banking activities -flow offunds
The TDP will maintain 3 accounts as follows:
(a)  Special Account with Bank X in US Dollars/kwacha which will show:
(i)  dollar/kwacha ,ost of transfers to Part I Account with Bank X;
(ii)  dollar/kwacha cost of direct payments to suppliers;
(iii) dollar advances (kwacha equivalent cost) from the IDA Ledger Loan Account;
(iv)  opening and closing balances
(b)  Current Project Account in kwacha with Bank X to which Counterpart Funding will be deposited.
Initially, an initial deposit (three months float) will be provided and, thereafter, it will be replenished
monthly.
(c)  IDA Ledger Loan Account (Washington) in US dollars/kwachaJSDR, which will show:
(i)  cost of transfers to Bank X
(ii)  cost of direct payments to suppliers
(iii) opening and closing balances
All bank accounts will be reconciled monthly; identified differences will be expeditiously investigated.
Control procedures will be documented in the FMPM.
TEVETA, accredited training institutions and trainingfund
Subject to the submission and approval of annual work programs and business plans, the Technical
Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Authority (TEVETA) and accredited training
institutions will be provided with accountable 90 day advances in US Dollars for eligible qualifying
- 112-



activities in accordance with the procedures documented in the FMPM. In due course, a Financial
Management Specialist from the Bank will be consulted when administrative arrangements for the proposed
Training Fund are being considered.
With drawals/disbursements
By credit effectiveness, the TDP will not be ready for PMR-based disbursements (World Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook, LACI, September 1998). Thus, in the short term, existing
disbursement procedures as outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook will be followed, i.e. Direct
Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitments. The appointment of the Finance Manager, coupled
with the establishment and development of the TDP's financial management system, should facilitate the
introduction of PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of credit effectiveness.
In due course, the adoption of PMR-based disbursements (which integrates project accounting,
procurement, contract management, disbursement and audit with physical progress through the Program
Management Report as summarized above) should enable the TDP to move away from
voucher-by-voucher disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the Special Account based on the
PMR.
Fixed assets/civil works/consultants
Control procedures will be documented in the FMPM. A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly
updated and checked. Regarding Capital Work in Progress, controls will be established to ensure that
payments are made only for certified work (including physical verification). A Contracts Register will be
maintained for all contracts with consultants. A Procurement Management Report, showing procurement
status and contract commitments, will be prepared quarterly for consideration by the FMPC.
Financial reporting (monthly and quarterly/annually)
Monthly cash reporting. In compliance with Government requirements, the Finance Manager will be
responsible for preparing a Monthly Retum to the Accountant General, MOFED.
Quarterly/annually. The Program's Financial Statements will include:
(a) A Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds analyzed by Cooperating Partner i.e.
IDA, Counterpart and Donor Funds;
(b) Program Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
(c) Notes on significant accounting policies and standards adopted by management when preparing
the accounts; and on any supplementary, information or explanations deemed appropriate by
management to enhance the presentation of a 'true and fair view";
(d) A Statement reconciling the balances on the various Bank Accounts to the bank balances on the
Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds;
(e) SOE withdrawal schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to disbursements
by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
(J) A Cash forecast for the next two quarters.
Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in a number of World Bank publications -
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (January 1995), The Loan Administration Change
Initiative Handbook (September 1998) and tie Draft Project Financial Management Manual (February
1999). In due course, the formats adopted by the FMPC will be documented in the FMPM.
- 113-



ExternalAudit
Audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the financial year end.
In Zambia, the Office of the Auditor General (AG), as outlined in the Constitution of Zambia Act 1996, is
responsible for the external auditing of all Govemment Funds. In practice, because of capacity constraints,
the AG frequently appoints relevantly qualified, experienced and independent private sector auditors as
his/her agents on approved terms of reference. In such cases, the private sector auditor reports directly to
the AG who retains the overall signing responsibility for the audit opinion. Besides expressing a primary
opinion on the financial statements in compliance with Intemational Auditing Standards
(IFAC/INTOSAI), the AG must include a separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety
of expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a
basis for loan disbursements. Regarding the Special Account, the AG will also be expected to form an
opinion as to the degree of compliance with Bank procedures and the balance at the year-end. Additionally,
the AG will be required to prepare a separate Management Letter giving observations and comments, and
providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records, systems, controls and compliance
with financial covenants.
- 114-



MAP SECTION






Loke
r 2 A                                            M B I A X 4~.  '                                        '                      T A  N  Z A  N  I A
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                   ToM MIoAW-h
TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS  R     RIVERS R                                              --.'eo
-     RAILROADS                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
o  SELECTED CITIES             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o)  PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                        KASAM
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
DEM REP OF CONGO
Mpik~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
A Ng_    0 L                                                                             9A                                                                               0 t
V   s r            ltezha- 0                            < -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >                    <~~~~~E. REP OF CONGO        TNAI
_\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AII BOTWAN Iw INSLmeE
m $ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N A  IRi An AON do noIneIb  ondre fIdsdn  ml- aoF Tn WponIheOd BonE (Snop                        SOUTH  AFRICA                  00::
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0) o    ayldgmenonnon hen legol sa ofo 00) nny lerony. or onx ondonsennenf                             K               
0                                           t- BOTSWANA     S v o*         a        c        .otnoc0Ee               of                                         s'uchbudrv.h,_'-o
=    >   rs  l  I  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h'q



