                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001102




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-35210 IDA-3521A)




                                      ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.5 MILLION
                        (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                                     FOR A

     TECHNICAL EDUCATION VOCATIONAL AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
           TRAINING (TEVET) DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT


                                  June 29, 2009




Human Development 1
Southern Africa Country Cluster
Africa Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective May 5, 2009)

                     Currency Unit = Zambia Kwacha (ZMK)
                              ZMK 100.00 = US$ 0.02
                              US$1.00 = ZMK 5,560
                               XDR 1.00 = US$1.50

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 ­ December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DANIDA     Danish International Development Agency
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
EU         European Union
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GRZ        Government of the Republic of Zambia
GTZ        German Society for Technical Cooperation
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA        International Development Association
JICA       Japanese International Agency
MoFPED     Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development
MSTVT      Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS        Management Information System
MYSCD      Ministry of Youth Sport and Child Development
NGO        Non-governmental organizations
PC         Program Coordinator
PCO        Program Coordinating Office
PIP        Program Implementation Plan
PSC        Program Steering Committee
TDP        TEVET Development Program
RNE        Royal Netherlands Embassy
SME        Small and Medium Enterprises
TEVET      Technical Education Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training
TEVETA     Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Authority
ZATPs      Zambia Association of Training Providers

                       Vice President:       Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                     Country Director:       Peter Nicholas (Acting)
                      Sector Manager:        Christopher J. Thomas
        Project and ICR Team Leader:         Carlos Rojas
                 ICR Primary Author:         Ana Ruth Menezes




                                         ii

                                               ZAMBIA
     TECHNICAL EDUCATION VOCATIONAL &ENTREPRENEURSHIP
        TRAINING (TEVET) DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT



                                             CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 26
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 35
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 38
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 45
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 56

 MAP IBRD 33514




                                                      iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Technical Education
                                                                       Vocational &
                                                                       Entrepreneurship
Country:                Zambia                  Project Name:
                                                                       Training (TEVET)
                                                                       Development Program
                                                                       Support Project
Project ID:             P057167                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35210,IDA-3521A
ICR Date:               06/30/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIM                     Borrower:
                                                                       ZAMBIA
Original Total
                        XDR 19.5M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 18.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
DANIDA
Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)
Netherlands


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/14/1999    Effectiveness:                            02/13/2002
Appraisal:             01/09/2001    Restructuring(s):                         04/18/2005
Approval:              06/14/2001    Mid-term Review:                          11/21/2003
                                     Closing:               12/30/2006         12/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory



                                               i

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:            Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators            (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                  Quality at Entry
                                                                     Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               20
Health                                                           1
Vocational training                                             79                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                              29               100
HIV/AIDS                                                         14
Improving labor markets                                          29


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:        Peter Nicholas                    Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:           Christopher J. Thomas             Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project Team Leader:      Carlos A. Rojas                   Patrick D. Murphy
ICR Team Leader:          Carlos A. Rojas
ICR Primary Author:      Ana Ruth Menezes



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Develop a high-quality, sustainable, demand-driven, and equitable TEVET system




                                              ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not revised in the restructuring of the TDP

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values        Target Years
                More than 50 per cent of existing training institutions receive support for

Indicator 1 :   courses from Training Fund.


                                           More than 50 per                   As of 2008, a total
                                           cent of existing                   of 62, representing
Value                                      training                           23 per cent of
quantitative or Nil.                       institutions receive               registered
Qualitative)                               support for courses                institutions
                                           from Training                      benefited from the
                                           Fund.                              TEVET Fund.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/08/2008                         12/08/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   60 per cent of industries surveyed annually express satisfaction with quality of
                human resource produced of training
                                           60 per cent of
                                           industries                         98 per cent of
                                                                              employers surveyed
Value                                      surveyed annually                  perceived the
quantitative or Not available.             express                            training to be
Qualitative)                               satisfaction with
                                           quality of human                   relevant and 81%

                                           resource produced                  rated the quality of

                                           of training.                       as satisfactory.

Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2005                         12/08/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Share of TEVET graduates from socio-economically disadvantaged groups
                increase by 10%.
Value
quantitative or 10.3%                      20,3%                              34%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/30/2006                         12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Of the TEVET graduates during 2004 and 2005 who have gained employment, at
                least 70% do so with a time lag of less than 6 months from course completion.


                                                iii

                                          73% of the                         55.1 percent of the
                                          graduates were                     graduates were

Value                                     employed within a                  employed withing a

quantitative or Not available             time lag of less                   time lag of less than

Qualitative)                              than six months                    six months. Within
                                          months of                          a year of graduation
                                          completing the                     the proportion is
                                          course.                            90 percent.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/30/2005                         12/08/2008
Comments        The graduate tracer study found that about 60 percent of the graduates start
(incl. %        looking for a job months after graduation. This associated with changes in
achievement)    recruitment method may explain the apparent decline of this indicator

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Legislation on Training Levy passed by 2004
                                          GRZ is
                                          considering

Value                                     alternative ways to

(quantitative   Not applicable            finance TEVET.

or Qualitative)                           For 2009 GRZ has
                                          ensured
                                          continuation of the
                                          competitive Fund.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/04/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Legislation on Training Levy passed by 2004
                                                                             GRZ is exploring
                                                                             alternative ways to
                                                                             finance TEVET. In
                                                                             2008, 0.9 of the stet
                                                                             discretionary

Value                                     0.8 percent of the Legislation on budget was

(quantitative   Not applicable            state discretionarythe training    allocated to

or Qualitative)                           budget             Levy was        TEVET. In 2009
                                                             postponed       funds have been
                                                                             allocated to allow
                                                                             for the continuation
                                                                             of the competitive
                                                                             Fund

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/30/2006         12/06/2008      12/30/2007
Comments



                                               iv

(incl. %
achievement)
               Physical infrastructure requirements involving rehabilitation, refurbishment and
Indicator 3 :  construction for TEVET system analyzed and prioritized in a plan by December
               2001
                                                                             Civil works have

Value                                                                        been concluded in

(quantitative  Not applicable                                                33 institutions and

or Qualitative)                                                              120 received
                                                                             equipment and
                                                                             tools.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                                                     12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Due to initial delays adjustments were made to the civil works component to

achievement)   adjust the implementation plans with the time frame available

Indicator 4 :  Strategy developed for gender mainstreaming
                                                                             The strategy has

Value                                     The gender                         been mainstreamed

(quantitative  Not applicable             strategy is in place               throughout the

or Qualitative)                           by 2003                            system.


Date achieved 12/31/2001                                                     12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Strategy developed for gender mainstreaming
                                                                             The strategy has

Value                                     The gender                         been mainstreamed

(quantitative  Not applicable             strategy is in place               throughout the

or Qualitative)                           by 2003                            system.


Date achieved 12/31/2001                  04/01/2006                         12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Policy Monitoring and Evaluation System established and in use by 2001

Value                                     M&E unit                           M&E system was
(quantitative  Not applicable             established and                    partially in place
or Qualitative)                           M&E system
                                          initiated                          and mainstreamed.

Date achieved 05/31/2001                  12/30/2006                         12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP                Disbursements
                                                                      (USD millions)
 1    01/31/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       0.00
 2    07/09/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       0.78
 3    01/29/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       1.06
 4    08/29/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       2.45
 5    09/12/2003       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                      2.45
 6    03/19/2004       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                      4.67
 7    11/18/2004       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                      7.13

 8    05/18/2005         Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                     10.36

 9    10/03/2005   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately
                                              Unsatisfactory                     11.74

10    01/19/2006   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately
                                              Unsatisfactory                     13.22

11    04/14/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               13.83
12    11/21/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               16.45
13    06/05/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               18.76
14    12/13/2007   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                      21.53
15    06/25/2008   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                      23.64
16    12/22/2008   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                      25.98



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at   Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                       Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP     in USD
                                            millions
                                                         Even though the project was
                                                        not restructured there was an
                                                        amendment of the Development
  04/18/2005        N         U      U          9.68    Credit Agreement aimed to
                                                        address changes related to
                                                        governance system and to cater
                                                        for the reallocation of funds.




                                         vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal:


The Republic of Zambia is a country which possesses six percent of the world's copper reserves,
which had been until the 1990s its main source of revenue. Mining and quarrying make up a
large portion of the industry sector in the Zambian economy. Apart from copper mining and
processing, construction, foodstuffs, beverages, chemicals, textiles, fertilizer and horticulture are
also notable industries in the country. The main export commodities in Zambia include cobalt,
compressor lubricants, copper, cotton, cut flowers, electric appliances and parts, hardwood, lead
products, mineral products and lime.

In the late 1990s, the country economy was in decline as a result of a sharp fall in the price of
copper, which led to a decline in the copper mining industry. Some other industries were
adversely affected by import liberalization, with negative consequences for formal sector
employment and the type of training provided.

At the time of appraisal the public Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship
Training (TEVET) system in Zambia was constituted by 23 public sector training institutions
offering programs of up to 3 years. There were also Trades Training Institutes offering programs
of up to 2 years affiliated to the Ministry of Science Technology and Vocational Training
(MSTVT) and some training centers offering shorter Technical Education, Vocational and
Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET) courses affiliated to selected line ministries. But Technical
and Vocational training was also provided by nongovernment providers represented by over 200
registered institutions. The TEVET system admitted annually over 30 percent of the grade 12
school graduates and catered to 15,000 students. 1

To train a skilled workforce for the market-based economy, the Government of Zambia
developed the TEVET Development Program (TDP) and the respective Program Implementation
Plan, 2001-2005 (PIP). The Program builds upon the Government's policy and strategy papers
and the Technical Education, Vocational, and Entrepreneurship Training Bill of 1998, which
established the Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Authority (TEVETA).

According to the new policy, the Government's role changed from being both provider and
financier of training to that of regulating, monitoring, supervising and evaluating, and providing
finance for demand driven training. The Government role was carried out through MSTVT.
TEVETA was to implement policy under MSTVT and had the following functions among
others: advising the Minister on TEVET, regulating and advising Management Boards,
developing curricula, administering the examination system, and registering and inspecting
public and private institutions. For this purpose, the TEVETA board of administration head was
primarily constituted by representatives of the private sector.




1According with MSTVT statistics, in 2006, the number of enrolled students was 22,564 representing a gross intake
ratio of 0.3% of the population aged 15-49.


                                                      1

During that period, the cooperating partners supporting the sector were the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA), the German Society for Technical Cooperation (GTZ), the
Royal Netherlands Embassy (RNE), the European Union (EU) and the Japanese International
Cooperation Agency (JICA). However, the overall contribution was too small and fragmented to
allow for a systemic approach to reform the TEVET system. In addition, the government was
faced with a tight budget constrain which limited its ability to fund the training system.

In that context, the Government requested the International Development Association (IDA)'s
assistance for the reform of its technical and vocational training system. The proposed credit was
to develop a TEVET system that would improve the skills for both the formal and informal
sectors of the economy through the creation of a high quality, sustainable, demand-driven and
equitable training system.

The Joint Appraisal of TDP took place in October 2001 and the project became effective in
January 2002. The total financing was SDR 19.5 million. In the context, of the HIPC initiative,
Zambia benefited also from the multilateral debt relief initiative Grant (MDRI) in the amount of
approximately SDR $2.65 million. The Danish International Development Agency, (DANIDA),
the German Society for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) and the Royal Netherlands Embassy
(RNE) joined the World Bank and the Government for appraisal of the program and have
committed to support TDP. DANIDA and GTZ modality of support was directed to particular
components or aspects of TDP following their own procedures. The World Bank and The
Netherlands provided overall system support and their funds were administered by MSTVT.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objectives were to develop a high-quality, sustainable, demand-driven,
and equitable TEVET system. Specifically, it was intended to: (i) raise the quality of the training
system; (ii) make the system more sustainable; (iii) make the system more demand-responsive;
and (iv) make the system more equitable.

According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) Annex 1, progress towards achieving of
the project development objectives was to be measured by:

1. Speed of finding a job
2. Increased number of jobs occupied by TEVET graduates
3. Employers satisfaction
4. Self-financing by formal training institutions
5. Percentage of formal training institutions benefiting from Training Fund
6. Satisfaction of clients of self-employed TEVET graduates2
7. Share TEVET graduates from socio-economically disadvantaged groups




2A TEVETA follow-up study noted that 26% of students exposed to entrepreneurship curricula started their own
business. However there is no consumer/client survey to testify to the quality of their services


                                                        2

8. Share female graduates
9. Employability of TEVET graduates compared to similar non-trainees3
10. Share of TEVETA approved courses
11. Increased resources available to TEVET

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification:

Neither the PDOs nor the key indicators were revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries:

The main beneficiaries of this project were: students, trainees, training institutions at various
levels and training providers, the Ministry of Science and Technology and Vocational Training,
TEVETA and employers.

1.5 Original Components:

The project-supported activities were divided into nine components: i) Overall Program
Management; ii) TEVET Financing System; iii) Organization and Management of TEVET; iv)
Training Systems, Trade Testing and Examinations; v) Entrepreneurship Development and
Informal Sector Training; vi) Human Resources Development; vii) Information Systems; viii)
Infrastructure and Equipment; and ix) Gender, HIV/AIDS and other Cross-cutting Issues.

Component 1: Overall Program Management. The component aimed at the establishment of: i) a
program Steering Committee (PSC)4 to approve annual programs and oversee the administration
of TDP supported by a Program Coordination Team (PCT)5 to supervise TDP implementation;
and (ii) a Program Coordinating Office (PCO) headed by a Program Coordinator to support the
PSC and PCT to prepare annual work plans, financial and management reports.

Component 2: TEVET Financing System. The main objective of this component was to establish
a TEVET Fund to finance demand led training in Zambia. The TEVET Fund consisted of a
number of recurrent funding windows, including a pre-employment and apprenticeship, a
SME/informal sector training, an in-service training and an investment funding window aiming
to fund the capital and human resource upgrading costs of the new TEVET system.

Component 3: Organization and Management of TEVET. The objective of this component was
to develop national awareness of the new TEVET system, to review and implement policies and
to build capacity in the appropriate line ministries, TEVETA and the training providers.

Component 4: Training Systems, Trade Testing and Examinations.                        The objective of this
component was to develop TEVETA's and training institutions' capacity to reach their stated
objectives, to create a healthy consultative dialogue between TEVETA and registered



3During implementation the national nature of the program made it impossible to have control groups
4The PSC was composed by representatives from MSTVT, the TEVETA Board, employers, workers and donors.
5Chaired by the Permanent Secretary, which included the DG of TEVETA and component coordinators.


                                                        3

institutions, and to provide teacher training/development initiatives in support of the new
TEVET system.

Component 5: Entrepreneurship Development and Informal Sector Training. The objective of
this component was to assist training providers in designing and offering skills-training programs
targeting informal sector operators and to incorporate entrepreneurship training in TEVET.

Component 6: Human Resources Development. This component aimed to build the human
resources capacity in the training sector and to support the Government in the development and
implementation of a gender sensitive comprehensive human resource development strategy for
TEVET to enable staff in the sector cope with demands of a market responsive training system.

Component 7: Information Systems. This component aimed to support the development of an
information system which was to play several roles: gathering, validating, analyzing and
disseminating data and information on the labor market and the TEVET system, providing key
inputs for decision making in training institutions and firms, and producing a set of indicators to
monitor progress in implementation and TDP's socioeconomic impact.

Component 8: Infrastructure and Equipment. The objective of this component was to provide the
means to improve and extend the TEVET learning and teaching environment (equipment and
facilities) to improve the skills for both the formal and non formal sections of the economy and
to establish a Physical Asset Management System for future planning and maintenance purposes.

Component 9: Gender, HIV/AIDS and other Cross-cutting Issues. The main objective of this
component was:      i) to strengthen the national effort to combat HIV-AIDS through better
information and peer group support and assist training institutions to develop HIV-AIDS
contingency plans; and ii) to assist the development of a strategic plan for improved gender
equity aiming to contribute for the mainstreaming of gender related issues in the TDP
components.

1.6 Revised Components

The Components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

The original project closing date of December 30, 2006 was extended to December 30, 2008, and
the DCA was amended in 2005 to respond to changes in implementation arrangements and
funding needs.

Due to unsatisfactory implementation progress, the project was rated as a Problem Project from
late 2003 to the end of 2005. Despite low performance, the Joint Appraisal Review did not
restructure the project because the main issues centered around the area of implementation
arrangements. In 2006, a two year extension to the original closing date was granted to permit
the completion of several civil works and the implementation of the new TEVET financing




                                                  4

system through the TEVET fund. The standard four-month grace period was granted in order to
conclude loan disbursements to cover payments of ongoing contracts.

The amendment on the reallocation of funds provided for a 10 percent increase in the value of
the Credit to the Goods category and to raise the percentages of disbursements to 100 percent to
all Categories based on the new approved financing parameters for Zambia. At the time
counterpart funding had not been an issue, instead this request intended to mitigate the financing
gap created by the earlier exit of DANIDA in 2005, and Government inability to increase their
budget share to the TEVET system.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project preparation was underpinned by Government adoption of innovative macro policies
such as deregulation of the market and greater emphasis in strengthening the private sector
contribution to policy making. At the time, IDA lending strategy supported the government plans
to upgrade the skill profile of the labor force and to make the technical education more
responsive to market needs. The past three IDA operations thus provided support to skills
development in selected areas.

The project objectives were in accordance with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the
Government policy at the time of appraisal. The project aimed to develop a high-quality,
sustainable, demand-driven, and equitable TEVET system. To monitor progress towards these
objectives, a set of outcome indicators were established.

The design of TDP was technically sound based on the principle that successful reforms require
a systemic approach aiming at mid- and long-term impact. Best practices worldwide have shown
that governance, funding, private sector participation, and access to quality learning programs for
formal students and workers or the unemployed have to be addressed simultaneously to
successfully enhance change. The project design included most of these aspects. The project
design incorporated lessons learned from previous operations and attempted to cater to the
challenges faced by the scope and nature of the project. The complexity of the reform and the
size of the program required strong commitment, leadership, and in particular solid technical
expertise on the part of the implementing agencies.

Acknowledging the complexity of TDP and the weak capacity of the implementing agencies the
project included an "Overall Program Management" component. The mechanisms of dialogue,
coordination, planning and supervision were well defined. However, the format selected for
program management was rather complex.

It is the ICR team's view that the main weaknesses in project design had to do with
implementation arrangements, the rating of identified risks and the underestimation of time
required for change management.




                                                 5

Although risks were generally correctly identified and drew on existing background analyses, the
potential impact of these issues was at times underestimated in particular regarding the
component of TEVET financing. The team rated "moderately" the risk for employer's
unwillingness to participate in the Training Fund, and also rated "moderately" that the Training
Fund is not put in place. The design underestimated the time required to have policy documents
approved by Parliament, and did not provide for alternative solutions. Specifically:

 On Implementation Arrangements: The complexity and time required to establish the PCO
    was not adequately planned. Significant delays during early stages of project implementation
    were caused by the lack of a fully established PCO.
 On Employer's unwillingness to Participate in the Training Fund: The PAD acknowledges
    the reluctance of employers to contribute to a Training Levy and calculated the risks
    involved. However, it underestimated several factors that hindered the establishment of the
    levy, including the fact that the private sector in Zambia is heavily taxed already. The design
    team's expectation was that the successful implementation of the TEVET Fund and its
    impact on quality of training would work as an incentive to reduce resistance to the Training
    Levy. Accordingly, the Fund was to be established in 2002 and the Training Levy in 2004.
 On the Training Fund: The establishment of the fund was considerably delayed. The team
    could not foresee that the insistence to pursue the training levy and the willingness of the
    Government to have the fund and the levy approved at the same time would considerably
    delay the establishment of the fund, a critical component of the Program. The TEVET Fund
    was only approved the in March 2005 and became fully operational in 2006.

Coordination of donor support: Overall consultation with all donors supporting the system was
undertaken, which provided the beginning of a platform for greater policy dialogue. However,
this process was not formalized by the signature of a memorandum of understanding with the
defining principles and procedures for interaction with Government among Development
Partners.

Government Commitment: Government commitment to the Project at the time of preparation and
appraisal was high which ensured the involvement of key stakeholders in the design of the
project and confirmed stakeholders' acknowledgement of the importance of skills development
for economic growth and development. The private sector and training institutions were key
players in the reform of the system and participated in the design of the TDP.

Quality at Entry: The World Bank Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessed quality at entry
for this project in FY02 (QEA4) as Satisfactory. However, the ICR team is of the opinion that
perhaps one of the critical issues of this project was insufficient understanding of the country
political economy and its implication in project design and implementation. Although the team
correctly identified possible bottlenecks, the time required to conduct and manage changes and to
build inner institutional capacity was underestimated. In this regard the team rates the quality at
entry as moderately satisfactory.




                                                  6

2.2 Implementation

Over the 7-year implementation period, the project had a down and up situation with the closing
date being extended 24 months. The project was rated unsatisfactory for 18 months between
2003 and 2005 due to delays in implementation. Nonetheless in 2006, the project was out offrisk
category and showed prospects for achievement of the PDO. By 2008, most of the PDO
outcomes and the outputs by components had been achieved.

The following factors could be linked to delays in project execution: the lack of clarity in the
institutional framework; the willingness to establish a training levy to sustain the TEVET Fund;
and the high political turnover of Ministers and Permanent Secretaries.

The institutional framework was characterized by ambiguities of roles. The TEVET Act of 1998
was silent on whether MSTVT or TEVETA would be responsible for capital assistance of
training providers. It was understood that clarification of roles would be addressed during the
revision of the TEVET Act in 2002.6 While in theory the roles and responsibilities of the
intervening units seemed clear, the practice showed some limitations. The time required to
manage changes had not been fully foreseen in the design of the project. In addition, the level of
leadership required to cope with the new organizational functions and related ethos was at the
time insufficient. This, combined with the high political turnover, did not support the much
needed systematic management of change, delaying capacity building programs aimed to support
the implementation of the reform.

This was further complicated by the establishment of the PCO, which was perceived to be
functioning in a semi-autonomous manner. The selection of component coordinators that did not
fully reflect established responsibilities in MSTVT and TEVETA and partial assumption of
responsibilities of the Department of Planning and the Department of Vocational and Technical
Training, hindered coordination and did little to boost the capacity of those units. In addition, the
PCO initial location, away from the implementing agencies offices, reinforced the idea of a semi-
independent management structure.

Ineffective coordination among the Program Coordinator with department officials of the
implementing agencies resulted in ill planning and inefficient articulation with training
institutions. This had particular impact in the quality of planning and definition of specifications
of supplies required by individual institutions which caused, at times, mismatches between needs
and capacity to install the equipment resulting in further delays of program implementation at
school level. In addition, the disparity in compensation between MSTVT civil servants, the
TEVETA and the PC might have negatively contributed to program management.

In particular, the low budget execution was a cause for concern in the first years of
implementation. In 2002, the rate of expenditure from the approved annual plan of IDA and The
Netherlands funds was only 13 percent and for the first nine months of 2003, their related
expenditure was only 16 percent of the approved full-year amount. The ratio of actual
expenditure to budgets under the DANIDA assistance in 2003 was somewhat better, but was


6The revision of the TEVET Act took place in 2005.


                                                   7

below 50 percent.7 The modality and management of DANIDA funds, which relied in direct
financing to institutions with very little outside supervision, was a continuous source of tension
with MSTVT. Their modality of funding and procurement was not aligned with the procedures
used by Government with other partners. In addition, key institutional reform activities expected
to have major impacts in the reform process lagged behind. These were the cases of the review of
the TEVET Act and the consultancy on establishment of the TEVET Fund. The fund was only
established in 2005 and became fully operational in 2006.

Frustration with management and unsatisfactory project implementation progress was such that
two cooperating partners threatened to leave the sector and even suspended disbursements. Due
to dissatisfaction by both Government and donors8 over the modality of funding and
procurement processes, DANIDA suspended their disbursements for a year in 2002. The
Netherlands suspended disbursements in 2004 until mid 2005, when progress towards the
establishment of acceptable changes to program implementation were underway and decided to
stop financing infrastructure. DANIDA decided to leave the sector in early 2005, creating an
unexpected financing gap.

In the ICR team's view, Government commitment at the time of appraisal was solid but the high
political turnover of Ministers and Permanent Secretaries, at times, created a vacuum in
leadership and political commitment between new leaders until they could became acquainted
with the sector. This had a negative impact in project execution. During the project lifetime,
MSTVT had seven regular or acting Permanent Secretaries, and four from the time of project
appraisal to 2004. The combination of all these factors heightened concerns regarding
Government capacity to implement the program.

In view of the dissatisfaction with Program implementation, funding agencies agreed to carry out
in 2003 a "Joint Review" (equivalent to a Midterm Review). The Review took place in
November/December 2003. The team was led by a Bank staff education specialist, and included
experts from MSTVT, TEVETA, DANIDA, The Netherlands Embassy, and the Bank which: i)
validated the PDOs and their relevance' ii) confirmed the need to review the implementation
arrangements that culminated in the dissolution of the PCO and mainstreaming of project
activities within the implementing departments; and iii) determined the need for reallocation of
funds among categories.

The adoption, in mid-2004, of these recommendations resulted in the mainstreaming of project
management and the realignment of roles and responsibilities among MSTVT and TEVETA,
which had a positive impact in the management of the program and significantly raised the pace
of project implementation by 2005. Also the review of the TEVET act and the establishment of
the TEVET Fund in 2005 steered the progress in project implementation. To permit the
achievement of the majority of project outputs, the original closing date, December 2006, was
extended for two years. The achievements made during the last three years of implementation
attest the value of this extension. The complexity of this project lied in the fact that it addressed



7This ratio was due to direct management of the planning, procurement and disbursement of funds rather than a
result of greater absorption capacity of the implementing agency.
8The Government complained about high transactions costs of the different administration arrangements in place.


                                                          8

some of the key elements required in a comprehensive TEVET reform (financing, governance,
good learning programs, private sector involvement, and improvement of learning conditions).

The management of these areas of intervention required strong leadership and reasonable
institutional capacity within the implementing agencies which at the time were insufficient. In
this context, the achievements made by MSTVT were not small, namely: the development and
establishment of a functional Training Qualification Framework; the development and review of
dozens of curricula and related programs; the strengthening of the managerial capacity of
training providers both public and private in the areas of school administration and management,
planning, monitoring and evaluation, and HIV-AIDS prevention and the consolidation of the
registration and grading system of training institutions as elements of the accreditation and
quality assurance system. More importantly the reform framework was fully established and it
was underpinned by the involvement of the private sector throughout the overall reform process
(even though there is room for improvement to ensure that the demand-driven aspects of the
reform are consolidated, fully established and acknowledged by stakeholders).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The design of a M&E framework was sound though an adequate baseline was not in place prior
to project implementation. Furthermore, the component had to be based on the management
information system (MIS) unit which was only established late in project implementation due to
capacity constraints. In spite of this, the M&E unit managed to conduct a first tracer study done
in 2004, establishing a baseline . Results were disseminated in 2005 (information related to the
years 2001-2003). The second tracer study was carried out in 2008 and the final report was
submitted to the Bank during the ICR mission in December 2008.

    M&E Design: The indicators developed to monitor progress toward the project development
    objectives were adequate because they responded to the PDOs and the necessary data could
    be collected. The resources for necessary studies and audits were defined in the Annual
    Working Plans and Budgets (AWPBs) and therefore available.
    M&E Implementation: The implementation of this component experienced procurement
    delays due to capacity constraints. However, two graduate tracer studies were carried out and
    data was made available to major stakeholders. The results of the first graduate tracer study
    were posted in the MSTVT website.
    M&E Utilization: The ICR team was pleased to see that the implementing agencies were
    using the M&E data to measure the success of their interventions. Accordingly, the results of
    the two graduate tracer studies will be used to inform directions on the type and relevance of
    training required. However, improvements in timely dissemination and wider discussions of
    results are needed. In addition, data analysis and utilization need further consolidation for
    this component to be considered a key source for the diagnosis of the TEVET system. Even
    tough the foundations have been established, continued efforts are required to build a fully
    operational M&E system.




                                                9

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards: This project was categorized as "C" for environmental classification and throughout
the project life, safeguard policies were not triggered.

Fiduciary Compliance: Project controls and procedures were in place by the time of project
effectiveness and were reviewed periodically by Bank procurement specialists, task managers,
and auditors. Bank specialists requested some adjustments to the financial management filing
system but in general, controls and procedures were found to be satisfactory.

The Bank supervision team showed dissatisfaction with quality and late submissions of annual
working plans and budgets (AWPBs), and the quarterly interim financial reports. Disbursements
in the first three years of the project were unsatisfactory. Regarding procurement the most visible
weaknesses were related to the use of procurement as a planning tool to deliver activities timely.
The procurement related activities occurring under the financing of the TEVET Fund had a more
decentralized feature, which contributed to rapid implementation of those activities and had a
positive impact on capacity enhancement of training institutions in fiduciary matters. However,
is also posed challenges to the training institutions in the timely reporting of execution of funds
and in the quality of procurement, in particular the definition of specifications of equipment.
Nevertheless, this was addressed by provision of timely technical advice and close follow-up by
the supervision team.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Bank concern about the sustainability of the project was expressed since the design of the
project. This reflected also the concern of Development Partners present in the sector at the time.
The PAD indicates the need for increased Government funding by 0.8 percent of discretionary
budget from 2002 onwards. This level was only reached in 2007. The sustainability of project
activities was discussed among cooperating partners and the Government of Zambia at various
stages of project implementation. Both the Bank and The Netherlands, the only partners in the
sector at the closing of this project, discussed with Government on alternatives for mobilization
of funds for the TEVET sector. The budget planning for 2009 reflected the request for increasing
funding to continue and consolidate TDP activities. This includes activities aimed at
strengthening management, infrastructure investments, and financing of the TEVET Fund among
others.

To compensate for the decision of not pursuing the Training Levy as a mechanism of
sustainability, the Government is exploring alternative financing sources, including increased
levels of support from the state budget. The positive impact of the program and its actual
relevance could be used to mobilize increased levels of commitment of its main stakeholders, in
particular exploring public private partnerships aimed at the consolidation of recent sector
achievements.

The project contributed to a systemic approach to TEVET reform in Zambia and all project
components were mainstreamed within MSTVT. The impact of this reform cannot be fully
measured now but in the years to come. There is room for continued improvement at both



                                                  10

systemic and implementation levels in all the following areas: governance, funding, quality,
private sector participation, and access to quality learning programs for formal and informal
sectors.

Most of the positive practices and innovative ideas developed under the project are likely to be
maintained and some are already incorporated as part of daily routines. Some of the most evident
are: i) the supervision and inspection of training institutions; ii) the methodology of curricula
development; iii) the training and qualification framework; iv) the involvement of the private
sector, association of training providers, representatives of training institutions and line
Ministries in discussions of key TEVET system issues; v) the model of financing through a
competitive fund; vi) the consolidation of the quality assurance system and its linkage to
financing of TEVET institutions; vii) the monitoring and evaluation system; viii) the use of
graduate tracer studies to measure quality and pertinence of training and market trends; ix) the
reform in management and governance of training institutions and related recruitment of school
Directors.

As a result of the significant delays in project implementation, a number of activities require
further refinement and consolidation. An area requiring further attention is the measurement of
quality of outcomes. This ought to be linked to expected outcomes of industry, which will
require consolidation of private sector participation in the evaluation of the TEVET graduates
and need to be measured by specific surveys that also tackle indicators of quality in productivity.

As MSTVT strengthens its M&E capacity, it would be important to conduct studies on the
impact of the TEVET reform to determine, among others, the level of improvement in staff
retention, reduction in work-related accidents, increased safety in the work place, reduction in
insurance premiums, and increase in productivity.

Despite the relative short time of implementation, there are positive signs of the perceived
quality and relevance of the TEVET system by students and employers alike. The two graduate
tracer studies confirmed that employers perception of quality and relevance of the training
courses is high and that more than half of students (54 percent) that attended courses in TEVET
training institutions indicated by order of priority that their choice was based on their willingness
to specialize in a particular study program and 51 percent indicated that the reputation of
particular institutions would be a criterion in their selection of an institution.


The most recent tracer study reveals that 88 percent of employers in the formal sector actively
employ TEVET graduates which reflects an increase of 26 percent if compared with the previous
tracer study. There is also a changing pattern in the modality of recruitment. Since 2005, about
40 percent of graduate recruitment was made through open advertisement. In previous years the
usual form of recruitment was via personal contacts. While this can indicate the growth and
diversification of the economy, it can also reflect increased demand responsiveness of the
TEVET Sector.


As pointed out by the PAD, the long-term sustainability of this type of reforms will depend on
the macroeconomic and fiscal conditions of the country and on the degree of involvement of



                                                  11

industry in establishing priorities and providing financing for training in the medium and long
run.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project development objectives continue to be relevant to the prevailing economic
conditions and TEVET system needs for the current Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for Zambia as well as for the Government of Zambia Development strategy.

Regarding project design and implementation, all project activities were and continue to be
highly relevant. Specifically: i) the need to systematically use monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms; ii) the realization of annual stakeholders surveys; iii) the involvement of the private
sector in policy decisions; iv) the continued realization of employability assessments through
graduate tracer studies; v) the certification of training institutions; and vi) the use of quality
assurance as an instrument to improve dialogue between policy makers and training providers
and as an incentive for improvement.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project attempted to develop a high-quality, sustainable, demand-driven, and equitable
TEVET system by i) raising the quality of the training system; ii) making the system more
sustainable; iii) making the system more demand-responsive; and iv) making the system more
equitable. Eleven indicators measured these objectives. In spite of considerable project
implementation delays, the project achieved the majority of outputs and most outcomes.

Assessment of PDOs:

Quality: This outcome was to be achieved through different interventions such as i) the design
and establishment of a "TEVET Training Qualification Framework-TQF"; ii) new and enhanced
curricula; and iii) provision of learning materials and training opportunities.

Indicators:
 60 percent of industries surveyed annually express satisfaction with quality of human
    resource produced of training: The target was surpassed. The graduate tracer study of 2008
    covering the years 2004-2006 showed that overall quality level of TEVET graduates
    remained satisfactory. On perceived relevance of training, 98 percent of employers found
    training to be relevant and 81 percent rated the quality of training as satisfactory.

 At least 5 percent of institutions in grade 2 that applied to TEVETA migrate to grade 1:
    There was no baseline for this indicator. The target was surpassed in 2004 but decreased to
    4.1 percent in 2008. The reasons for the reduction are not studied but it may reflect better
    acquaintance with the use of quality assurance instruments. In addition, the implementation
    of the new Training Qualification Framework and related curricula placed higher
    requirements for the quality of training provision. In this context, a decrease in this target



                                                 12

    could mirror better use of quality criteria rather than a failure of the program to achieve its
    outputs.

 At least 5 percent of institutions in grade 3 that applied to TEVETA migrate to grade 2:
    There was no baseline for this indicator. In 2008, the percentage of institutions that migrated
    to grade 2 was 19 percent, a positive trend when compared with 2005 (5.6 percent) and 2004
    (2 percent). This positive trend might be linked with the fact that institutions in grade 2 have
    an incentive system in place to strengthen their capacity to perform at higher levels; but it
    also has to do with the introduction of new methodologies of training with a better balance
    between practical and theoretical subjects and related curriculum review. Also the provision
    of equipment and training of school managers may have played a significant role in
    improvements of quality of training institutions.

 At least 90 percent of training institutions that apply to TEVETA are inspected
    annually: The trend has been positive up to 2007. Annually over 90 percent of institutions
    that apply for registration have been inspected up to 2007. This target was however not met
    in 2008. There is an increased number of institutions that annually apply for registration, but
    the resources (human capacity primarily) needed to ensure quality assurance coverage have
    remained the same. Perhaps once the system is consolidated with stronger quality assurance
    mechanisms the periodicity of inspections will be increased.

 At least 90 percent of training institutions that apply to TEVETA are registered
    annually: This target was never met. In 2006, only 66 percent, representing 338 institutions,
    were registered. In 2008, there was a positive trend showing that 69 percent of institutions
    that applied for registration got registered. The likelihood of achieving this target in the near
    future is greater because since 2008, the lifespan of registration for individual institutions is
    for a three year period which will make it easier for TEVETA to bear the workload for this
    quality assurance mechanism.

The above results indicate a positive trend for quality-related indicators. Out of seven monitoring
indicators to assess quality, five have either achieved or exceeded original targets, and two were
marginally achieved. In 2002, TEVETA established minimum standards through which all
TEVET providers are assessed and accredited annually. Standards cover issues related to
management and teaching staff qualifications, maximum teaching hours per day, staff to student
ratio, physical environment (state and specification of buildings and furniture), minimum
equipment and tools and conduct of examinations. These minimum standards are used by the
Authority to accredit institutions. The Grading System alongside other elements is part of
eligibility a criteria for accessing the TEVET Fund. The system acts as an incentive for
performance improvement and as a warning system to training institutions. The continuous
consolidation of this Quality Assurance System may raise the prospects of transforming the
TEVET system from a second choice stream to an equal competitor for quality graduates coming
from the general stream of the education system.

Similarly, the establishment of the Training Qualification Framework and the development of
related syllabus and guides for curriculum development opened the space for the implementation
of a more flexible training system focused on the recognition of competencies and assessment of



                                                  13

outcomes rather than inputs or processes. The involvement and commitment of key stakeholders,
in particular training institutions, industry representatives, employers and civil society was a
central element in those accomplishments.

Sustainability: To ensure the sustainability of the TEVET system, three indicators were used to
measure success: i) TEVET sector budget as a percentage of the total national budget; ii) number
of institutions recovering at least 25 percent of their recurrent costs and; iii) number of
institutions receiving support from the TEVET Fund.


Indicators:
 More than 50 percent of existing training institutions receive support for courses from
    the Training Fund: The target was not achieved. Even though about 155 (57 percent) of
    those registered in 2005 attended awareness workshops related to the new mechanism of
    financing in 2006, only 62 training institutions and organizations (both public and private)
    got support from the TEVET fund since 2005. It should be noted that the number of
    institutions receiving support fluctuated due in part to the reduction in the amount of
    resources available from external partners and constraints faced by GRZ to allocate a greater
    share of resources to the Fund.

 Total resources available for training sector increased, with GRZ contribution constant
    in real terms, to 0.8 percent of GRZ discretionary budget: Only in 2007, the state budget
    to TEVET indicated a commitment to meet the target of 0.8 percent. The total resources
    availed to the TEVET Sector in 2007 showed 0.9 percent of the GRZ discretionary budget.

 50 percent of public training institutions recover at least 25 percent of their recurrent
    costs by fees from trainees by 2005: The target has been achieved. To date 50 percent of
    public training institutions are able to recover at least 25 percent of their recurrent costs by
    fees from trainees. It is expected that overtime these institutions will be able to sustain most
    of their recurrent costs from their own resources. In spite of this progress, as institutions need
    to innovate, more resources will be needed to rapidly meet changes in market technological
    requirements which will require availability of diversified sources of funds other than fees.

Since its establishment, the Fund had been underfinanced, mainly funded by IDA and The
Netherlands. There is need for diversification of funding sources to meet financing needs. The
use of incentive criteria in the funding allocation conducive to improve relevance and quality of
training has been important for quality improvements and market responsiveness. In this context,
the TEVET Fund is an important agent of change that needs to be fueled, alongside the checks
and controls of the system.

Demand Responsiveness: This indicator aimed at ensuring that the TEVET system is responsive
to the needs of employers and of the labor market. This is premised on enhanced participation
by stakeholders through regular consultations involving employers and training institutions. The
following were indicators, related benchmarks and results.




                                                 14

Indicators:
 Of the TEVET graduates during 2004 and 2005 who have gained employment, at least
    70 percent do so with a time lag of less than 6 months from course completion: The
    target has not been achieved. The target was reached and surpassed in 2004. The 2008 tracer
    study reported that 55.1 percent of graduates found employment within six months of
    graduation, but it also reported that 90 percent of graduates got employed within a year after
    graduation. Furthermore, the percentage of those employed between 6 and 12 months after
    graduating doubled from 17.0 percent in the period 2001 to 2003 to 35 percent in the years
    2004 to 2006. The study also found that 42.2 percent of graduates start searching for jobs
    months after graduation which may explain the increase in time lag to find a job.

 At least 90 percent of TEVET graduates who do not find employment within 0-6
    months after graduation, find employment within 6 -12 months of graduation: The
    target was achieved. Ninety percent of graduates find jobs within a year after graduation.

 Increased number of National Courses9 whose curricula are reviewed per annum in
    response to market demands: The target has been achieved. Overall, during the project
    implementation period, a total of 80 National Courses were reviewed. Most of the reviews
    took place up to 2006. Since 2007, the number of annual reviews decreased considerably,
    which may be considered normal as the reform takes shape. However, the decrease could
    also be linked to: i) change in the approach of course development, ii) availability of
    financial resources, and iii) decreasing demand from various stakeholders for new courses.

The project managed to reform the TEVET system and implemented a sector skills development
strategy aiming at guiding skills in the formal and informal sectors. TEVETA conducted a
thorough review of curricula. Under IDA financing, 16 new training courses were developed and
introduced into the TEVET and 47 programs were reviewed. All these programs were
implemented in training institutions. A key contributor was the close involvement of
stakeholders, in particular training providers and industry. These impressive results reflect strong
ownership, motivation and commitment to the objectives of TDP.


The private sector employed the majority (80.4 percent) of fully employed graduates from the
period 2004-2006 while the public sector absorbed 17.5 percent. It is in the interest of
Government to continue involving the private sector in the overall aspects of the system, in
particular in the definition of occupational standards and in quality assurance mechanisms.

Equity: This indicator aims at assessing the degree to which the TEVET sector increases training
opportunities for female trainees as well as for disadvantaged groups. It also responded to and
supported the national campaign against HIV/AIDS.




9 National Training Courses refers to programs whose curriculum are developed by TEVETA in accordance with
the provisions of the TEVET Act and leads to a national qualification.



                                                        15

Indicators:
 Share of TEVET graduates from socio-economically disadvantaged10 groups increase
    by 10 percent: The target was achieved and surpassed. The share of TEVET graduates from
    socio-economically disadvantaged group increased from 10 percent to 25 percent in 2005 and
    to 34 percent in 2007. There was a growing demand for access to training opportunities by
    trainees from socio-economically disadvantaged groups. The number of bursaries available
    was insufficient to keep up with demand. Bursaries were provided by the MSTVT Bursary
    Center, Churches, and other organizations. Since 2006, the program provided 1500
    bursaries--30 percent to female students. In 2007, due to greater financial autonomy, some
    training institutions introduced bursary schemes for students from economically
    disadvantaged groups. Nevertheless, available bursaries schemes were limited in number and
    size to cater to students. The success of this objective will depend on the capacity of different
    institutions to participate and carry out innovative modalities of financing to boost bursary
    schemes. This is beginning to hold in those institutions that managed to consolidate their cost
    recovery mechanisms.

 Female graduates from TEVET programs increase by 25 percent: This indicator was not
    met due to unrealistic high targets. The rate of female graduates in 2007 represented 42
    percent of total of graduates, which in any TEVET system would be considered satisfactory.

 Female graduates from male-dominated TEVET programs increase by 25 percent:
    There was no baseline for this indicator. The benchmark was set too high to be achieved. The
    number of female students in male dominated courses was 12 percent in 2006 and 2008.
    Gender balance was not achieved. In Commercial training courses the gender balance moved
    closer to a 50:50 ratio but in engineering related training, the ratio is skewed towards males.
    In 2006 and 2007, the percentage of females in engineering related training was about 12
    percent, and the percentage of graduates was 8 percent.

    Specific strategic interventions continue to take place to promote female participation in
    traditionally male dominated courses. Specifically, training institutions ensure that
    information about bursaries to support technical fields is available. At the policy level, the
    education sector and MSTVT conduct awareness campaigns aiming to raise the interest of
    female students towards traditionally male dominated courses.

 Share of TEVET graduates with disabilities increase 10 percent by 2005: The target was
    achieved. The share of TEVET graduates with disabilities increased slightly from 0.8 percent
    in 2002 to 1 percent in 2007. The Government has actively pursued a policy of affirmative
    action for students with disabilities to have access to training. A disability policy was
    launched in 2007. MSTVT intends to implement this policy to open up TEVET opportunities
    for students with disabilities and in that regard requested training institutions to cater for
    specific disabilities in the learning environment through provision of appropriate teaching
    aids and infrastructure.


10Socio-economically disadvantaged groups refer students supported through bursary schemes because they cannot
afford to pay fees due to high levels of poverty, unemployment, effects of HIV/AIDS and the general decline in the
economy


                                                        16

 Each TEVET institution introduces an HIV counseling centre: The target was achieved
    in all 23 MSTVT training institutions. Due to lack of qualified personnel, insufficient
    material support to centers, and scarcity of financial resources, the Government adjusted the
    approach in support for the establishment of health referral systems to ensure larger coverage
    of training institutions. Thus, while in 2007 only 62 institutions had a functional HIV/AIDS
    counseling center within their premises, over 91 percent of institutions used a referral system
    to health facilities and support centers within their localities, and 53 percent of the
    institutions surveyed had an HIV/AIDS focal point person to champion issues of HIV/AIDS
    for both students and members of staff.

 Percentage of TEVET institutions with referral services: The progress towards this aim
    was satisfactory. The percentage of institutions with referral services was 91.8 percent.

3.3 Efficiency

During project design, an economic analysis was prepared based on a number of assumptions
which resulted in an internal rate of return of 17 percent. At the end of the project a
comprehensive collection of data for key indicators, average wage per level of education,
unemployment information and household data related to the social impacts of the project was
not readily available to fully validate the assumptions of the cost benefit analysis developed at
appraisal.

Regarding the TEVET system internal efficiency, there were improvements in pass rates and
drop-out rates between 2005 and 2006, but at least three more years of observation are required
to confirm this trend. External efficiency is oscillating in view of changes in economic
conditions. The Government is making efforts to diversify the economy which has been reflected
in the growing number of SMEs in the areas of services, water, gas, energy and agro-processing.
Most of the SMEs are subsidiaries of big companies and represent the majority of employers for
the TEVET system. The recent downturn in copper prices is likely to be responsible for the
shifting pattern of employment. While the majority of graduates were employed by the private
sector, in 2006 only 66 percent of private sector companies employed TEVET graduates while in
2004, 78 percent did so.

Regarding the efficiency on the use of project resources versus expected outputs, the project
achieved most of its output indicators. Efficiency could have been better if the first years of
project implementation had shown satisfactory progress.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall progress of implementation in each component lagged behind plans. However, the
project achieved the majority of its outputs and outcome indicators defined in the PAD. Certainly
additional information is required to fully assess the impact and sustainability of outcomes but
project objectives and its overall design continue to be relevant.

This project included output indicators for the whole program, specifically tailored to measure
the PDOs. Inputs provided were related to teaching staff, learning materials and physical and


                                                 17

information infrastructures catering to change the quality of the training environment and
innovate learning methods and upgradeing staff skills.

Indicators used in this program to measure the relevance and quality, such as employability and
migration of institutions to subsequent levels, showed that the project managed to achieve its
development objectives. The national scope of the program makes it difficult to ascertain the
attribution of change to the project alone, in particular because there were no control groups.
Beneficiary surveys and two graduate tracer studies confirm positive changes in the quality and
relevance of training, private sector involvement and satisfaction of graduates, training providers
and the private sector. Strong Government commitment and private sector involvement were
fundamental elements in this success. This commitment needs to be maintained as the reform
effort requires consolidation.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impact

(a) Poverty Impact, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The bursary scheme targeted students from poor and disadvantaged groups. The program
supported at least 1,500 students who otherwise would not have had the opportunity to enter the
system. Furthermore, management improvements in individual training institutions has enhanced
capacity to diversity the student body.

Greater awareness of training institutions personnel about issues related to HIV/AIDS is visible
and the likelihood of a positive impact on their families in the areas of prevention and treatment
is greater.

There is an increased number of females registered in the TEVET system, even though the
proportion in engineering related areas remains low.

Finally, the fact that 90 percent of graduates were employed within a year of graduation, with 50
percent in full time employment, may contributed to an increased redistribution of resources.
Increased ability of the TEVET system to certify previously acquired experience outside
conventional modes of training raised the ability for otherwise unqualified people to be qualified.
Similarly the introduction of an entrepreneurship curriculum may enable more graduates to start
their own business. Data from a 2008 survey showed that at least 26 percent of students exposed
to this type of curriculum initiated their own business..

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The creation of the TEVET Fund and the review and amendment of the TEVET Act by
Parliament brought a realignment of roles and responsibilities across TEVETA and MSTVT. The
consolidation of these changes will deserve close follow-up and increased levels of resources to
continue strengthening the capacity of these institutions to administer the TEVET system.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A



                                                 18

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Two tracer studies carried out under the Project contained substantial beneficiary assessment
results. As part of TDP implementation, an annual stakeholder forum became institutionalized
and major recommendations from the last two forums are also reported below.


Beneficiary Survey:

 The quality and relevance of training has been improving. Up to 2003, 63 percent of
   employers reported the need to retrain graduates, while in 2006, only 32 percent expressed
   this to be the case. Fifty one percent of employers retrained newly recruited graduates to
   provide additional practical experience, while 49 percent provided training to new graduates
   to make them familiar with company operations.

 Even tough a significant proportion of employers were satisfied with the quality of TEVET
   training, about 31 percent are of the opinion that there was need for further improvement on
   practical training at colleges. About 28 percent, suggested the need for introduction of new
   technology/equipment in colleges; 20 percent wanted changes in curricula; while another 20
   percent advocated for emphasis on attaching students to industries while they are still
   studying.

 Seventy percent of graduates reported that their study program was very useful to their
   current jobs. Slightly more than half of graduates with part-time employment said some
   elements of their study program were very useful. Similar results were registered for about
   60 percent of those in self employment.

 Most graduates at all certification levels felt that the practical emphasis of teaching was very
   good. However, 25 percent of Advanced Certificate/Technician and 19 percent
   Diploma/Technologist graduates said the practical emphasis of teaching in the program they
   pursued was average.

 The top five sectors of the economy actively recruiting TEVET graduates were: mining,
   electricity, gas and water, construction, agriculture, social and personnel services, forestry
   and fisheries.


 National Stakeholders Consultative Forum:

 The National Stakeholders Consultative Forum met on a yearly basis and ensured greater
 participation of major stakeholders in policy dialogue. Its power lies in its composition and
 members' capacity to develop networks. The Forum was mainly composed by private sector
 representatives, civil society, representatives of key Ministries, and representatives of the
 Zambia Association of Training. Some of the Forum recent recommendations are listed below:


 The TEVET educational system should move away from developing job seekers to
   investment seeking graduates. The students should be educated to develop a more aggressive
   attitude towards resource mobilization and capital generation. The Forum recommended the
   introduction of investment-oriented courses in all TEVET institutions;

 The Training Qualification Framework should work towards ISO 9001 quality standards;



                                               19

 Entrepreneurship training in schools should be expanded to target youth that leave the formal
    educational system at grades 7, 9 and 12;

 TEVET institutions should set up Business Development Units to ensure outreach programs
    in support of the business community for development services and common use of
    equipment in workshops;

 Funding from Government to training institutions should include private institutions;
 Industry should be at the forefront of the organization of future stakeholder forums.
    Participation need to reflect inclusiveness of all sectors and levels, in particular, people from
    provinces and districts throughout the country need to be invited.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate to High

Government commitment to the reform of technical training has been strong. However, a major
reform requires that commitments are reflected in the quantity and quality of resources made
available to create and consolidate successful practices. The dissemination and marketing of
positive impacts of the reform could play a role in maintaining private sector involvement and
other stakeholders and further promote establishment of critical partnerships for the
sustainability of this reform.

This reform shows positive signs in all aspects of system governance. The likelihood of
consolidation is greater in the following areas: involvement of the private sector in governance
systems at policy level and at the level of TEVET providers, policy formulation and regulation,
curricula development, and capacity of training institutions to read market needs and make
required adjustments to their training.

The sustainability of the project relies heavily on its ability to continue to attract qualified
managers and teachers at schools and retain them. Since the involvement of the private sector
and civil society have shown to be key elements of success of this reform, sharpening their social
compact will ensure increased participation and responsibility in policy dialogue and
management of the TEVET system.

However, to maintain these achievements, greater mobilization of resources is needed to improve
physical infrastructure of TEVET institutions. At the time of appraisal, the indicative cost for
infrastructure rehabilitation and equipment alone was set at US$55 million. Although the project
financed rehabilitation and equipped a number of selected institutions, a greater share of
resources is needed. While the private sector is expected to address part of the need, it should not
be seen as the only solution. Despite strong involvement of the private sector in the TEVET
reform, concerns over the modality of their contributions remain. At the same time, the financial
crisis and consequent reduction in copper prices may make it difficult for Government to
increase its financial contributions to the sector. Therefore, consolidation of the achievements of
this reform reinforce the need for innovative approaches that can secure stronger partnerships
between Government and the private sector in the areas of financing, quality assurance and
governance.



                                                 20

Government must also consolidate the existing monitoring and evaluation unit to ensure
continued relevance and quality of service delivery.

In lieu of the training levy, in Zambia, where the private sector is already heavily taxed, perhaps
other ways of mobilizing private sector contributions need to be sought. In the meantime,
TEVETA could widen private sector participation by consolidating their support to in-service
training, and assisting companies to design plans and budgets for that purpose. But this will
require sustained dialogue and partnership development with key stakeholders. Experience
shows that the participation of the private sector is constrained when the private sector itself is
still weak and lacks skilled staff and resources. Thus, recent Government policies to attract
private sector investment have to be consolidated Government funding for private training
providers through the TEVET Fund should be continued and consolidated, creating a space for
diversification of skills provision.

A comprehensive strategy to ensure the sustainability of current outputs and outcomes could
include: i) the consolidation of TEVETA governance and financing structure, ii) more attractive
career paths with adequate salary and incentive schemes to attract and retain qualified managers
at all levels, and qualified teachers in schools; iii) financing schemes that foresee contributions
from various types of stakeholders and beneficiaries of this reform; iv) greater share of income
generated retained by the schools: and v) continued support for consolidation of decentralization
and accountability

A larger contribution of Government to TEVET may require a redefinition of priorities in terms
of resource allocation . In Zambia, where access to post-secondary education opportunities are
small, the TEVET system represents a window of opportunity to acquire relevant market skills
and avoid the vicious circle of poverty for the majority of secondary school graduates. MSTVT
may need to reevaluate and negotiate with Government the proportion of the budget allocated to
Science and Technology and Technical and Vocational Training, perhaps by exploring greater
linkages among these two areas.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
This was a huge and complex program aimed to support the TEVET reform. The design was
based in technically sound studies, supported by wide consultation of key stakeholders and
lessons learned from previous operations. The project team made a detailed economic and
financial impact of the project to justify the financing of the TEVET system by IDA and for
increased Government allocation of funds. The inclusion of a monitoring and evaluation system
to measure outcome indicators was an important step towards a better understanding of the
context in which the TEVET reform was taking place.




                                                 21

However, the team underestimated the following: i) the political, economic and social
complexities related to the creation of a Training Levy as a financing mechanism, in particular,
when employers had shown openly continued reluctance; and ii) the time and support required to
implement such a huge reform which included fundamental components dependent on approval
by Parliament.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The supervision of the project during implementation was hindered by the fact that there was
high turnover of Ministers and Permanent Secretaries from MSTVT. The Bank team identified
implementation bottlenecks and attempted to act on them in a timely fashion though these efforts
were frustrated by ambiguities related to the institutional framework and high political turnover.
However, the team needs to be commended for instituting the project Joint Appraisal Review
which proposed key recommendations that were in its majority adopted by the implementing
agencies in mid 2004.

On the other hand, given the reluctance shown by one key partner regarding the choice of
implementation arrangements, the Bank team should have anticipated the need for the changes
made by the JAR earlier in the project life. Also, the Bank team failed to provide timely support
in overall planning and monitoring and evaluation to key officials in charge of program
implementation, which resulted in ill planning and considerable delays in annual work plan
presentations and approvals.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall Bank performance rating for the Project is moderately satisfactory.

Even though the project team at the design stage underestimated the time necessary to have in
place approved instruments from Parliament and overestimated the benchmarks of certain
outcome indicator targets, the team adopted a comprehensive results framework to try to measure
the impact of the program. This was not an easy task given capacity constrains of the
implementing agencies. Thus additional effort was put by the team in ensuring that the
monitoring and evaluation system was established, and quality data was collected and
mainstreamed in the MSTVT planning unit. However, greater implementation support could
have been given at the implementation stage to mitigate weaknesses of the implementing
agencies and the need to implement a complex reform.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
While Government commitment to the TEVET system was high at project design, during
implementation this was not reflected in the way resource allocation was made to the sector. The



                                                22

required minimal target allocation of resources for the TEVET system was only met in 2007, and
most of the funds were oriented towards recurrent expenditures of which salaries represented the
greatest share.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall, GRZ performance in implementing TEVET is moderately satisfactory. Even though this
rating may not reflect the full effort made by the implementing agencies, it takes into
consideration the unsatisfactory performance in the first three years of project implementation.
While Government ownership and commitment to the TEVET reform is indisputable, this was
not always visible by the timely application of appropriate measures to facilitate implementation.
In the first years of project implementation, due to high political turnover, MSTVT was slow to
act on bottlenecks that were at the root of project delays. Also, it failed to act fast on
recommendations of the Joint Appraisal Review which resulted in further implementation delays.

However, the achievements registered in such a relatively short period of actual implementation
were significant. Some landmarks include the development of the National Qualification
Training Framework, the review and development of new curriculum for the formal and informal
sectors, the establishment of a TEVET Fund, the consolidation and refinement of an
Accreditation and Quality Assurance system, and the development of the National Skills
Development Strategy.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The high political turnover of Ministers and Permanent Secretaries did not facilitate the
implementation of TDP and increased substantially the risks of achievement of PDOs. However,
the team noted that in spite of the difficulties related to the institutional framework, in the first
years of project implementation, the political commitment was maintained and Government and
stakeholders' efforts resulted in the achievement of the majority of project outputs and outcomes.

6. Lessons Learned

The lessons derived from the implementation of this project include:
 The implementation or sustainability of a project may be jeopardized when key actions are
    triggered by legislation that needs to be approved at the highest levels of Government. In
    order to guarantee success, the need for new legislation should be carefully assessed or
    secured prior to project approval.

 Experience from other countries and regions have already shown that private sector taxation
    to support the TEVET system is unlikely to be supported unless the country has an
    established, diversified private sector. Also, in countries where accountability systems are
    weak, the private sector may be reluctant to agree on increased taxation levels to support
    skills development.



                                                 23

 The capacity assessment of the implementing agency, including clear roles and
    responsibilities for involved actors, is an essential element of the project design stage. At the
    design stage, complex projects should be accompanied by: i) a detailed risk vulnerability
    analysis with particular attention given to sequencing and clear identification of actions that
    depend heavily on other actions; ii) clear definition of program coordination with full
    ownership by implementing agencies; and iii) above-average M&E rigor to ensure that
    milestones/outputs/intermediate outcomes are well defined, and priority is accorded to
    measuring results and determining if the program is on track. Monitoring, evaluation and
    other information systems are central to the implementation of a training system that
    responds flexibly and in a timely fashion to the needs of industry and shifts in technology in
    the labor market.

 Mainstreaming project implementation is important even though weak implementation
    capacity may require technical support. The transfer of responsibility for implementation
    from the PCO to MSTVT and TEVETA was essential. When roles and responsibilities are
    clear, even weak agencies can perform at higher levels and in that process build their
    capacity. This project was designed as a program approach and its management should have
    followed that principle from the start.

 The involvement of key stakeholders (association of training providers, trade associations
    and industry) from the early stage of policy discussions is key to build trust and continued
    participation in the process of change.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower commissioned its own detailed ICR and a summary is presented in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers
The Netherlands was a co-financier for this project and their comments are attached in Annex 8.
The following constitute a summary of their comments.

Overall, The Netherlands reiterates the progress made by the TEVET reforms, in particular the
establishment of a national training authority (TEVETA) for regulation and the TEVET Fund as
a financing mechanism for TEVET; but shows concern over the sustainability of the reform in
view of the fact that the resources provided by Government are below the minimum level
required to just run the system as it is.

Regarding the project major bottlenecks, the following were listed as the reasons for project
delays namely:
 Reforms made in institutional arrangements which required redefinition of roles and
    responsibilities and capacity limitations for program management and implementation;
 Inadequate coordination amongst stakeholders;
 Insufficient financial commitment of Government; unclear position with regard to certain
    policy measures (e.g. Training Levy) and inadequate dialogue mechanisms; and

 High turnover of personnel at the level of Permanent Secretary and Minister.


                                                  24

Regarding the issue of sustainability it is pointed out that a fully demand-driven system is yet to
be developed due to underestimation on the part of MSTVT of the importance of strategically
reaching out to other actors, such as Ministries of Education, Finance and Labor, private sector,
research institutions and the donor community.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
 See Section 3.6 on National Stakeholders Consultative Forum




                                                 25

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

           Components             Appraisal Estimate Latest Estimate  Percentage of
                                   (USD millions)    (USD millions)    Appraisal
1. OVERALL PROGRAM
MANAGEMENT (INCL. MSTVT                   3.95              3.84           97
RECURRENT COSTS)
2. TEVET FINANCING SYSTEM                 9.43              5.69           60
3. ORGANIZATION &
MANAGEMENT OF TEVET                       0                 0.71          N/C

4. TRAINING SYSTEMS, TRADE
TESTING & EXAMINATIONS                    1.30              0.96           74
(INCL. TEVETA DIRECT COSTS)
5. ENTREPRENEURSHIP
DEVELOPMENT & INFORMAL                    0                 0.14          N/C
SECTOR TRAINING
6. HUMAN RESOURCE
DEVELOPMENT                               1.50              2.47          165

7. TEVET INFORMATION
SYSTEM                                    0.80              2.03          254

8. INFRASTRUCTURE AND
EQUIPMENT                                 2.57              8.28          322

9. GENDER, HIV/AIDS & OTHER
CROSS-CUTTING ISSUES                      0.23              0.22           96

MDRI split                                3.83              3.83          100
Unallocated                               4.60              0
Refinancing of PPF                        0.59              0             100
               Total Baseline Cost       28. 80            28.17           98

Physical Contingencies                    0.00              0.00          0.00

Price Contingencies                       0.00              0.00          0.00
               Total Project Costs       28.80             28.17
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00              0.00          .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00              0.00          .00
        Total Financing Required         28.80             28.17           98




                                             26

(b) Financing
                                                                  Appraisal         Latest
               Source of Funds                     Type of                                       Percentage of
                                                Cofinancing        Estimate       Estimate
                                                                (USD millions)(USD millions)       Appraisal

Borrower                                                                21.0011          40.00
DENMARK: Danish Intl. Dev.
Assistance (DANIDA)                                                      15.00            8.00            53.3

GERMANY: German Technical
Assistance Corporation (GTZ)                                              1.50            0.00

International Development Association
(IDA)                                                                    25.00           24.30            97.2

NETHERLANDS: Min. of Foreign
Affairs / Min. of Dev. Coop.                                             14.00            5.60            40.0

Local Sources of Borrowing Country                                        9.60            0.00
FOREIGN SOURCES
(UNIDENTIFIED)                                                            2.80            0.00


(c) Reallocation of IDA Funds:


              Category               Amount of the Credit Allocated           % of expenditures to be
                                       Expressed in SDR Equivalent                    Financed
 Civil Works                                      0.78                     100
 Goods                                            3.80                     100
 Consultant services                              1.56                     100
 Training
       a) Grants for training                     7.39                     100 of the amount disbursed
           programs

       b) Staff Development                                                100
           and other training                     1.56
           costs

       c) Bursaries                                                        100 of the amount disbursed
                                                  0.78
 Operating Costs                                  1.56                     100
 Refinancing of project                           0.20                     Amount due pursuant to
 Preparation Advance                                                       Section 2.02 (b) of the DCA
 Unallocated                                      1.87
 Total                                          19.50




11This was a conservative figure and it was estimated that Government would contribute annually to TEVET 0.8%
of its discretionary budget. The budget allocation was on average 40% below the minimum required level, except for
2007.



                                                         27

Annex 2. Achievements by Component:

1. Overall Program Management
Overall, in spite of shortcomings related to implementation arrangements mentioned in previous
sections related to PCO performance, this component, through the Program Steering Committee,
was fundamental for the management of the program. The fact that the PSC continued to meet
has helped the identification of project bottlenecks and alternative solutions which contributed
to:
 Improving communication and articulation among the , TEVETA and MSTVT teams;
 strengthening managerial capacity of implementing agencies; and
 Improving planning and reporting systems and application of procedures in fiduciary areas
    which resulted in improved progress in project implementation.

A major achievement was the ability to organize the annual stakeholder forum, ensuring greater
participation of stakeholders in policy dialogue. But greater efforts are needed to ensure follow-
up of recommendations made by this Forum.

2. TEVET Financing System
To promote the Fund, TEVETA organized several workshops aimed at providing information
related to the mechanics of applications for funds, formats to be used, selection criteria, and
overall information regarding the administration of the Fund. The information and awareness
workshops were attended by 155 institutions (57 percent) out of 268 registered in 2005. Funds
were allocated to four established widows: pre-employment; in-service training; training for self-
employment and; upgrading of training infrastructure and capacity building.

The TEVET Fund benefited about 4,300 students enrolled in public and private training
institutions and in the years to come an increased number of students would continue benefiting
from the equipment, tools and materials procured by training institutions and from improvements
in the quality of the training.

3. Organization and Management of TEVET
Overall, the component achieved its objective, managing to publish a quarterly newsletter, and
conducting annual "stakeholder consultation meetings" involving key representative from
Government as well as private institutions. The following are some of the main achievements:
the review and approval of the TEVET Act in 2005 and consequent establishment of the TEVET
Fund; the review of the TEVET Policy, development of the Sector Plan, and update of related
strategy which steered the design of a National Skills Development Plan. The latter has been
critical in catalyzing the networking capacity among key Ministries such as Education, Sport,
Youth and Child Development, Commerce, Trade and Industry, and Community Development
and Social Services and with the private sector. In this context, support to the ongoing TEVET
Development Program established the foundations for a broader involvement of key stakeholders
in the planning, design, monitoring and evaluation of the ongoing TEVET reform.




                                               28

4. Training Systems, Trade Testing and Examinations
One of the most important achievements of this component was the design and adaptation of a
TEVET Training Qualification Framework, which is currently being piloted in five curriculum
areas. The development of the TQF played a key role in steering the process of establishment of
the Zambia Association of Training Providers (ZATP) and improved networking capacity among
key Ministries which enhanced the review of old curricula and related materials.

Regarding curriculum development, IDA funds financed the development of 16 programs and
the review of 48 programs. Overall TEVETA reviewed over 80 curricula which have been
approved for use in TEVET institutions. The road map for curriculum development has been
clearly defined and supported by "standards,", guidelines for competency based modular
training, and administrative guidelines for credit transfer. The unit also delivered workshops to
train curriculum developers in four provinces. Particular attention was given to evaluation and
certification. By December 2008, TEVETA had trained 201 evaluators (markers), 35 item
writers (setters) and 45 examination administrators and invigilators.

An important landmark was the development of guidelines and learning materials related to
distance education and related training on material production. TEVETA also conducted an
assessment of apprenticeships which resulted in the Government review of the "Apprenticeship
Act." Similarly, a situation analysis in the area of trade tests was conducted resulting in the
review and modernization of guidelines for trade testing and a total of 108 "trade testers" were
trained in trade testing assessment.

5. Entrepreneurship Development and Informal Sector Training
Taking into consideration Zambia's economic and related employment profile,12 this component
was regarded as crucial to respond to market needs. Traditional apprenticeship in the informal
sector is the main entry point for dropouts from basic and post-basic education into the labor
market. TEVETA managed to initiate the process of recognition and certification of acquired
competencies and also developed a detailed syllabus for the Entrepreneurship curriculum.

To deliver the Entrepreneurship curriculum, related training was offered to a total of 250
institutions (78 percent of total institutions). A training of trainers manual was developed, and a
program of Training of Trainers covered 72 districts which benefited 600 instructors. The
introduction of this subject was reported to have a positive impact on students self-confidence
measured by the proportion of students establishing their own business. A follow-up study
conducted by TEVETA indicated that 26 percent of the students exposed to this curriculum had
started their own business.

The project supported curricula development of specialized professional areas with success: the
craft certificate course on "Gemstone Cutting and Polishing" and related support to the center
that was created to respond to the needs of this sector and support to the Carpentry sector by
providing training in "Wood Products Finishing." To improve the standard of craftsmanship,
adequate training was provided through contracting outside expertise. The consolidation of those
centers showed enormous potential in supporting the development of associative groups for
future development of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs).

1270% of those employed were in informal sector at the time of appraisal


                                                       29

6. Human Resources Development
The performance indicators for this component were achieved during the period 2005-2007. A
needs assessment study was conducted, which was critical for the development of the MSTVT
Human Resource Development Plan (HRD) approved in 2005. The plan included: the training of
MSTVT personnel, reviewing the strategic plan and design of a performance appraisal system.
Through the recruitment of training providers from Swaziland and Zambia key officials from
implementing agencies had been exposed to managerial training and a selected number of
officials were awarded scholarships to complete their studies.

At selected institutions, several training workshops were carried out in the areas of planning,
financial management and new teaching methodology. A total of 580 officers benefited from
training in the areas of planning and financial management; selected managers attended training
in audit, human resource and asset management; over one hundred lecturers were trained in new
teaching methodologies; and a selected number of lecturers benefited from scholarships to
upgrade their qualifications.

The development of the TEVET Training Qualifications Framework, curriculum development
and related syllabus played an import role in capacity development of TEVETA officials.

7. Information Systems
The main achievement of this component was the provision of equipment and the establishment
of local networks. Equipment and software was provided to 14 out of the 23 public training
institutions. Each institution has a fully established "Local Area network" for internal
communications and all benefited from training on system administration and basic problem
solving. However, little progress had been made in the design and implementation of a
management information system. The ICR team also noted that there was no progress made
regarding the use of the technology for gathering and processing basic statistics regarding school,
students and teachers due to late establishment of the system and insufficient capacity in the
areas of data processing and analysis.

8. Infrastructure and Equipment
Through the accelerated program for uplifting teaching and learning conditions for training
institutions, equipment and tools were provided to approximately 120 public and private training
institutions. As planned, civil works were carried out in 23 public training institutions but
another 10 benefited from rehabilitation of its infrastructure using resources from the TEVET
Fund. Resources were used primarily to construct/rehabilitate spaces directly related to training
activities and also hostels for students coming from other geographical areas and less privileged
students. Overall, about US$8.3 million were invested. Even though there was a significant
reallocation of funds to this component, this was mainly to cover , the exit of DANIDA funds,
the decreased expectations in counterpart funding due to the shift in country parameters from 15
percent in 2001 to 0 percent in 2005 and expansion of equipment expenditures in view of the
quantity of schools receiving support in this area. In order to maximize equipment support in
2007, MSTVT launched an Asset Development and Maintenance Policy. The ICR team had the
opportunity to visit selected sites and confirmed that equipment and tools were being
appropriately used and adequately maintained.




                                                30

9. Gender HIV/AIDS and other Cross-cutting Issues.
HIV-AIDS: Government and all the partners in the sector contributed to this activity and a
sizeable amount of resources was used in training. Over a thousand participants and 230
institutions participated in several workshops designed to raise awareness about HIV/AIDS. In
addition a peer educator training program was delivered to 48 institutions.

TEVETA developed HIV/AIDS curriculum materials (modules) in the area of prevention. Each
of the 48 institutions trained in the peer educators program received close to US$ 500 dollars to
buy basic materials to disseminate key information. In addition, 23 public training institutions
received books on HIV/AIDS, peer educators were trained and a counseling and support program
was designed for Ministry staff and training institutions.

Gender: In April 2006 the Ministry launched its "Gender Policy." A gender focal person was
appointed at each 23 training institution and efforts were made to establish at school level gender
committees. Training was provided to all focal points in public institutions as well as at central
level. In addition, the Ministry promoted visits to secondary schools to raise awareness of female
students for career opportunities in TEVET related programs. The results are yet to be visible
because change in behavior and attitudes towards gender requires a support system that goes
beyond TEVET institutions.

Disability: In February of 2007, MSTVT published the "Disability Policy" as a strategy to
"integrate persons with disabilities into the mainstream vocational training." Issues regarding
curriculum adaptations, physical access to institutions, and special programs were among the
areas included as part of the policy. This policy was also available in Braille.




                                                 31

Summary of Outputs by Component:


     Components               Output Indicators                        Comments

                     1. Annual reports on administration   1. Achieved with delays in the
                     and disbursement of funds             first years of implementation
1. OVERALL           2. Surveys of employers to            2. Consultation with employers
PROGRAM              determine attitude to Fund            was periodically made
MANAGEMENT           3. Reviews of training policy         3. Review has been delayed and
(INCL. MSTVT         document every three years            ongoing
RECURRENT COSTS)     4. Annual reports of NSCF             4. Annual reports are available
                     meetings.                             5. Surveys were conducted but
                     5. Annual Labor market survey.        not annually
                     1. Fund Established with related      All outputs achieved with delay
                     operational manuals in place          because the Fund was only
                     2. Available training funds           established in2005
                     accessible to providers with good
2. TEVET FINANCING   business Plans
SYSTEM               3. Registered training institutions
                     accessing training funds produce
                     annual business plans
                     4. Higher proportion of poor and
                     disadvantaged trainees in the system
                     1. Publication of quarterly           1. Complied
                     newsletter                            2. Done periodically
3. ORGANIZATION &    2. National publicity campaign using 3. 100% of courses are approved
MANAGEMENT OF        media sources available;              by TEVETA
TEVET                3. Share of courses approved by
                     TEVETA rises to 90%.

                     1. Numbers of institutions accredited 1. An increased number of
                     and registered                        institutions have been inspected
4. TRAINING          2. Curriculum development             and accredited
SYSTEMS, TRADE       3. Improvements in teacher training   2. The curriculum reform was
TESTING &                                                  one of the programs landmarks
EXAMINATIONS                                               3. Training in new teaching
(INCL. TEVETA                                              methodologies has been
DIRECT COSTS)                                              provided to selected teachers.
                                                           More had to be done to reach the
                                                           overall system.




                                         32

                              1. Establishment of 7                         1. This plan was not pursued
                              entrepreneurship development                  2. TEVETA included in the
                              centers                                       curriculum entrepreneurship

5.ENTREPRENEURSHI             2. Capacity for entrepreneurship              modules to be delivered to the

P DEVELOPMENT &               training and informal sector training         informal sector. A number of

INFORMAL SECTOR               enhanced                                      selected groups benefited from

TRAINING                                                                    this training and established
                                                                            small businesses. Also through
                                                                            the TEVET Fund small
                                                                            businesses provided training to
                                                                            informal sector workers.
                              1. Needs assessment for MSTVT                 Completed in 2005/2006 and

6. HUMAN RESOURCE             and TEVETA completed by 2001                  ongoing

DEVELOPMENT                   2. Needs assessment and HRD for
                              selected Training providers
                              implemented by 2004
                              1.Design of M&E system to monitor             1. Complied with delays but
                              program progress                              indicators have been established

7. TEVET                      2. Develop key performance                    and M&E unit established

INFORMATION                   indicators to measure internal                2. Statistics Digest published

SYSTEM                        efficiency of TEVET system                    annually since 2005




                              Civil works and goods delivered               Achieved with major delays and
8. INFRASTRUCTURE             timely based on agreed AWPBs                  some weaknesses in quality of
AND EQUIPMENT                                                               provision of goods and civil
                                                                            works
                              1. Strategy developed for gender              Gender strategy, HIV-AIDS and
9. GENDER, HIV/AIDS           mainstreaming                                 Disability policy have been
& OTHER CROSS-                2. Strategy developed to counteract           developed and disseminated
CUTTING ISSUES                effect of HIV/AIDS on supply of
                              skills.
                              1. Monitoring and evaluation system           1. M&E Unit established in 2005
                              operational                                   2. Tracer studies conducted and
                              2. Tracer studies undertaken on a             results been posted in MSTVT

Monitoring and                regular basis                                 website
Evaluation13                  3. Service delivery surveys of                Tracer studies include some
                              industry conducted regularly                  elements of industry surveying
                              4. Studies to examine internal                but specific surveys should be
                              efficiency of system conducted                carried out;
                              regularly                                     MIS system was established but

13 Due to the importance of M&E (although not mentioned as a component), the work involved in establishing the
M&E unit and the development of related instruments were key for the measurement of project results and are thus
discussed here.


                                                     33

      requires consolidation
      3. Not yet established
      4. Yet to be conducted




34

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic and financial analysis was not prepared for this ICR.




                                             35

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

             Names                              Title                 Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Paul Murphy                  TTL, Lead Education Specialist          AFTH1
Amit Dar                     Senior Economist                        HDNSP
Clement Siamatowe            Social Sector Specialist,               AFTZM
Fenwick M. Chitalu           Financial Management Specialist         AFTZM
Jon Lauglo                   Senior Education Specialist             AFTH4
Marilou Bradley              Social Assessment Specialist            AFTH4
Brighton Musungwa            Financial Management Specialist         AFTZM
Kym Davis                    Logframe Specialist
Lindsay Falkov               Skills Development Specialist
Robert Murray                Institutional Development Specialist
Terry Corcoran               Labor Market Development Specialist
Oliver Campbell White        Senior Private Development Specialist   AFTP1
Vanessa Saldahna             Operational Support                     AFTH1
Bruce Jones                  Senior Economist                        AFTH1
Tony Hegarty                 Financial Management Specialist         AFTQK
Eli Orbach                   Institutional Capacity Analyst          AFTH3
Bwalya Mumba                 Procurement Officer                     AFTZM
Carla Bertoncino             HD Economist                            AFTH1
Tony Quinlan                 Institutional Development Specialist,
Vijay Gupta                  Financial Analyst
Supervision/ICR
Arvil Van Adams              Consultant                              EASCS
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo        Senior Procurement Specialist           EAPCO
Fenwick M. Chitalu           Financial Management Specialis          AFTFM
Fook Yen Chong               Consultant                              AFTH1
Wedex Ilunga                 Procurement Specialist                  AFTPC
Michael N. Mambo             Consultant                              AFTH1
Francis Kanyerere Mkandawire Extended Term Consultant                AFTFM
Maureen Kabasia Mwikisa      Team Assistant                          AFMZM
Rosalia Rodriguez-Garcia     SeniorMonitoring & Evaluation Spe       HDNGA
Carlos A. Rojas              Senior Education Specialist             AFTH1
Neta Mulenga Walima          Program Assistant                       AFMZM
Hongyu Yang                  Operations Officer                      HDNED




                                                 36

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                           82.28
  FY00                                 40                      125.75
  FY01                                 49                      162.88
  FY02                                   6                       39.15
                         Total:        95                      410.06
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                 36                        92.84
  FY03                                 31                      101.06
  FY04                                 31                      149.70
  FY05                                 26                        97.02
  FY06                                 29                        99.82
  FY07                                 27                        89.66
  FY08                                 30                      146.73
  FY09                                   8                        0.00
                         Total:       218                      776.83




                                     37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The project design included two tracer studies that were underpinned by a sound results
framework. These two studies were conducted in 2005 and in 2008. The methodology used in
the development of these tracer studies allowed for both qualitative and quantitative information.
Key results of this tracer studies have been incorporated in section 3 of this report, under
Assessment of Outcomes.




                                                38

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

One of the achievements of this project was the establishment of a national stakeholder
consultative Forum which meets annually and makes recommendation on perceived issues in the
areas of governance, quality and relevance of training provision, financing and equity among
others. See below a selection from the main reports of the Forums held in 2008 and 2007.


               2008 NATIONAL STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATIVE FORUM

The forum main theme was ``Unlocking Human Resource Potential to Achieve Economic
Growth". Based on this theme, papers were presented on the following areas:

   (i)      Main Presentation: `Unlocking Human Resource Potential to Achieve Economic
            Growth'. The presenter was Mr. Yusuf Dodia, Chairman of the Private Sector
            Development Association.
   (ii)     Developing Demand Responsive Curriculum through Stakeholder Participation
            Towards Economic Growth. The presenter was Mr. Passmore Hamukoma, Director
            at Mopani Copper Mines PLC.
   (iii)    Promoting Skills Training for Employment and Wealth Creation. The Presenter
            was Mr. Leornard Mutono, Director of Mobile Mission Maintenance Vocational
            Training Centre.
   (iv)     Extending the Education Frontier Through TEVET. The Presenter was Dr.
            Sichalwe Kasanda, a Consultant with the Ministry of Education.

   In his presentation on `Unlocking Human Resource Potential to Achieve Economic
   Growth', Mr Dodia stressed the following issues:
    The need for TEVET to guide the development of Skills in Zambia. The presenter
        pointed out that we were in a Technology edge and that things were changing. In this
        regard, demand for new skills was very high. The challenge for Tevet is to guide the
        demand for skills an opportunity to develop and if Tevet was to do that, then there was
        need for the participation of Private Sector in foras like the one that was held on 7th
        November. He expressed disappointment at the fact that Private Sector was not well
        represented.
    Zambia was expected to licence 12 new banks by the end of the year. With this new
        development Zambia had an opportunity to develop the services industry in the region.
        However the absence of skilled human resource deters Zambia from doing that. The onus
        is on training providers to take up this challenge. The presenter urged training providers
        to look at skills in the banking and insurance sectors.
    TEVET should link with Zambia Bureau of Standards. Standards was a very big issue.
        MSTVT needed to put on its agenda the question of mandatory standards voluntary if we
        have to get appropriately qualified human resource.
    Due to lack of appropriately qualified human resource in the country, there is a lot of
        casualization. When an employer signs a contract with an employee, he expected
        somebody appropriate skills. The training providers were asked to provide employers



                                                 39

   with skills that they are willing to pay for. So MSTVT and training providers need to
   discuss with private sector over skills that industry needs. There is need for government
   to enter into partnership with private sector so that appropriate skills are developed
 Other issues raised during the presentation were that no training provider was offering
   bricklaying say at diploma level and that training providers needed to expand usage of
   their facilities if they are to increase access.
 During the question and answer session, it was suggested that a small committee be
   appointed facilitate the planning of future foras. The committee should include private
   sector.

In the paper on Developing Demand Responsive Curriculum through Stakeholder
Participation Towards Economic Growth the following issues were raised during the
presentation
    Current curriculum does not meet the needs of industry. This is mainly because there
       are no frameworks n the manner things are done. More often then not industry takes
       graduates from TEVET institutions and has had to retrain them. He made a passionate
       plea that should train first time and that this could be done if industry is involved in
       the curriculum development process.
    There is need for setting up objectives if the curriculum is to be demand driven.
    There is need to promote the balancing of demand and supply . If Tevet is based on
       demand, it will give industry the right skills. The speaker raised the following
       question; What demand and whose demand; The answer to this question can be found
       in available policy documents prepared by government--documents such as the
       PRSP 2002 -2004, FNDP and Vision 2030
    Training institutions and industry have greater and active interaction with each
       other.
       In view of what was said above the following recommendations were made
         Government should ensure inclusiveness in the participation of industry.
             Government must look at how each sector should participate
         Curriculum should be aligned to the needs of industry
         Government should provide incentives for those that are providing training
         Training providers should validate their programmes. They should assess the
             relevancy of the programmes they offer.

 In his presentation on Promoting Skills Training for Employment and Wealth
   Creation, Mr. Mutono stated that in 1999 his training centre responded to the need to
   team up with young people for the purpose of imparting them with skills for employment.
   Though the project started small with only a few students, the programme has over the
   years grown with more than 800 students graduating from the center with survival skills.
   These graduates are actively participating in the economic activities. The presenter
   mentioned that the success of the graduates had been because of the constant touch and
   assistance in terms of advice from the center on how well to utilize their skills for wealth
   creation. He said that strong partnerships between training institutions and graduates was
   vital if the graduates are to succeed in whatever they do in future as the institutes offer
   the role of parenthood to the graduates. This parenthood should be in relation to offering
   an atmosphere for the graduates to obtain loans and other support that would help them


                                               40

       settle down after graduating. In this case following up of graduates is important to ensure
       that they settle down well and also network with them.

       The presenter also mentioned that promoting of relevant and contemporary skills was key
       to employment creation as most companies were interested in skills which could use
       modern equipment. In that case, training institutions should be able to study the industry
       so that they can offer programmes that are responsive to industry.

       In the paper on Extending the Education Frontier Through TEVET it was noted that
       there were challenges faced by the school system. The focus of the Present education
       system is mastery of content instead of application. School system prepares learners for
       passing exams hence producing learners that are skilled in memorization and know-how.
       The other challenge is that the education system does not include creativity. In view of
       the above, the following recommendations were made

The following recommendations were made at the forum:

   Entrepreneurship training: There should be formation of alternative entrepreneurship
       focussed education for schools (youths at different levels that they leave the formal
       educational system at grades 7, 9, 12 and college).

   Investment Oriented Courses: Introduce Investment Oriented courses in all TEVET
       institutions.

   Relevant Courses: TEVET institutions should offer market (community) relevant
       courses.

   Toolkit Scheme: National Technology Business Centre (NTBC) and Citizen's Economic
       Empowerment Commission (CEEC) should harmonise the Toolkit Scheme.

   Business Development Units: TEVET institutions should set up Business Development
       Units to support the business community in the areas for development services and
       common user equipment workshops.

   TEVET Educational System focus:The TEVET educational system should move away
       from developing job seekers to investment seeking graduates as is the case with Mobile
       Mission Maintenance Vocational Training Centre (MMMVTC).

   Change Mindset:            The TEVET system should form the base of the pyramid in
       inculcating a mindset change among citizens both in conduct and choice of lifestyle. The
       citizen must be developed to be aggressive in resource mobilisation and capital
       generation.

   Participation in Future Fora: Participation at future fora should be inclusive. There is
       need to involve the people from the Province and the District.




                                                41

    Planning of Future Fora: Appoint a small group which includes industry to co-ordinate
        the planning of future fora's.

              2007 NATIONAL STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATIVE FORUM

The forum main theme was `Economic Growth through Sustainable TEVET for All'. Based
on this theme, papers were presented on the following areas:
   (v)      Keynote Speech: Economic Growth through Sustainable TEVET for All'. The
            presenter was Dr. Mwilola Imakando, President of Economics Association of
            Zambia. The presenter recommended that a training levy be introduced in order to
            make funding system more sustainable.
   (ii)     Enhancing Economic Growth through Stakeholder Participation in TEVET. The
            paper was presented by Mrs. Sangster Jere, Training Manager at Technical
            Vocational and Teachers College.
   (iii)    Towards Economic Growth by Providing equal access to all in TEVET. The
            presenter was Mr. Joseph Mukuni, Director of Vocational Education Training in
            MSTVT.
   (iv)     TEVET Qualifications Framework as a tool for Economic Growth. The paper
            was presented by Dr. Patrick Nkanza, Director General of TEVETA.
   (v)      Innovation in TEVET as a means to Economic Growth. The presenter was Dr.
            William Price, from Virgina Tech, USA and a consultant with the World Bank.

Based on the theme `Economic Growth through Sustainable TEVET for All', group
discussions were held on the following areas:

Group 1:       Enhancing Economic Growth through Stakeholder Participation in TEVET
Group 2:       Towards Economic Growth by Providing equal access to all in TEVET
Group 3:       Towards Economic Growth by Providing relevant TEVET
Group 4:       TEVET Qualifications Framework as a tool for Economic Growth

In order to achieve economic growth through stakeholder participation in TEVET the following
interventions were proposed during the group discussions:

Group 1:       Enhancing Economic Growth through Stakeholder Participation in TEVET
In order to enhance economic growth through stakeholder participation in TEVET the following
interventions were proposed during the group discussions:
Training institutions needed to:
    consult stakeholders.
    conduct Training Needs Analysis (at least once every six months) so that they could offer
        appropriate training programmes
    train persons who are multi-skilled
    develop demand-driven courses
    develop marketing strategies
    get continuous feedback from stakeholders
    conduct self-evaluation
    take advantage of available funding opportunities


                                               42

     engage parents and teachers through Parent-Teacher Associations

MSTVT and Ministry of Education needed to link up and share strategies and information on
TEVET.
There was also need to build up on things that were working well e.g. the JETS Fair.
There was also need to harmonise qualifications.

Group 2:        Towards Economic Growth by Providing equal access to all in TEVET
In order to achieve economic growth by providing equal access to all in TEVET the following
interventions were proposed during the group discussions:

     Appeal on sector Training Advisory Committee from TEVETA
     Enhancing regulation of provision of training
     Appeal to equipment management teams on public training institutions to be demand
       responsive
     TQF to align with the bureau of standards
     Appeal by leveling all the grounds on support financially


Group 3:        Towards Economic Growth by Providing relevant TEVET
In order to achieve economic growth by providing a relevant TEVET the following interventions
were proposed during the group discussions
     A good foundation of capacity building for TEVET is to plan, and arrange for finances or
       source for finances and Goodwill from Stakeholders.
            1. Skilled human resource, and
            2. infrastructure.
     Zambia needs to conduct a comparative analysis of TEVET provision in other countries
       by taking stock of what we have as a country and benchmark with countries in the region
       that are doing better. In addition there should be:
      - Staff and student exchange programmes
      - Upgrading of standards to Regional or International level
     Introducing programmes that are relevant e.g. set . up support structure and training to be
       affordable (Bursaries)
     Institutions to have linkages with Industry to help students find employment.
     Develop different support structures for different age groups.
       This should be treated at three levels:
       1. Youths who have just completed school, what help can they get to enter college.
       2. Retirees ­ What programmes are there to encourage them to train.
       3. Employees ­ what programmes are there to make this group progress in their careers.
     How do we strengthen the exchange and cooperation of TEVET by stakeholders in order
       to enhance economic growth?
To strengthen the exchange and cooperation of TEVET by stakeholders in order to enhance
economic growth there should be Stakeholder Forums conducted in order to exchange
information and views e.g institutions to invite industry to talk to students and Industries to invite
lecturers to see what is obtaining on the ground (industry).



                                                 43

Group 4:       TEVET Qualifications Framework as a tool for Economic Growth
   ·   Satisfy industry demand
           ­ The product of the holders of the qualifications to be of quality.
           ­ No need to be re-trained
           ­ One set of standards therefore graduates will have been trained to the same
               standard
   ·   Minimum standards will ensure quality of training providers
Relevance
   ·   Training provider will be forced to collaborate with industry
   ·   Since qualification will be set to industry standards, will be transferable between sectors,
       nationally, regionally, and internationally
Access
   ·   Multiple entry levels will enable increased access (i.e. whatever level of education)
Equity
   ·   Whatever the level of education, someone may be able to acquire training
   ·   Equal recognition of certification no matter where training is obtained.
   ·   Information packaging will enhance equity
Sustainability
   ·   If industry gets quality labour, they will be ready to contribute to the TEVET Fund, hence
       sustainability
   ·   Through contribution of a levy, industry can get training grants and will be able to train
       their employees
Benefits of TQF
   ·   Employers: Right personnel with right skills and competencies
   ·   Learners/Parents: Right qualifications, hence parents ready to pay for training
   ·   Government: Right personnel in right positions
   ·   Other stakeholders: Networking through participation in standards setting.

RECOMMENDATIONS

The following recommendations arose out of the Forum:
1. TEVETA should report on the successes and failures of the Sector Training Advisory
    Committee's (STACs)
2. TEVETA needed to ensure that unregistered training providers did not operate so that
    quality in TEVET is enhanced.
3. The TQF should be quality assured by working towards ISO 9001 and ZABS quality
    standards
4. There was need to equip and update the skills of management and staff of public training
    institutions. Particularly in view of technological changes.
5. Government should level the playing field as regards to funding institutions. The public
    training institutions were crying due to insufficient funds, however there were other training
    institutions which had no funding at all. These should also be considered for funding.
6. There was need to revisit the purpose of the forum. The Minister needed to report on how
    the Approved Workplan and Budget in the TEVET sector had been achieved.
7. The period of the forum was felt to be too short. Proposals were made to consider extending
    it to one and a half or two days.


                                                 44

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

a) Borrower's ICR (excerpt)

Overall the evaluation commissioned by MSTVT confirmed the positive impact of the project in
the reform of the TEVET system in governance, funding, quality, private sector participation,
and access to quality learning programs for formal students and informal sector workers. It
specifically mentions that "the program scored very highly in terms of introducing quality and
demand responsive training" and concurred that the stakeholder consultation forums held
annually contributed significantly though the achievement of some of the outcome indicators
related to quality and demand responsiveness. Below is a transcription of the Findings from the
Government commissioned ICR:


Findings

1. Extent to which TDP structures affected programme implementation

This rather complex programme structure had the following negative bearings on the
programme's delivery of programme outputs:

i) Too many structures: The many programme committees and structures often proved a
hindrance to the smooth undertaking of TDP activities. For often the differences between the role
of Component Coordinators and that of the Programme Implementers was not appreciated. So
was that of the Implementers of the PCO. Tension often arose as a result of this confusion of the
roles the different actors were supposed to play. Programme implementers often felt sidelined
and belittled by the other actors when carrying out functions at institutions over which they were
the chief executives.

ii) Too many programme players: While the TDP was housed in the MSTVT's Vocational and
Education Training (VET) department some of its components were being coordinated by other
departments in the same Ministry as well as by the TEVETA. These other agencies often felt it
as an intrusion on the part of the VET when the latter requested for information from the others.
This fact was responsible for much of the delays in the implementation of programme activities
discussed in Section 2.1.2 above.

iii) Involvement of other units and departments in the running of the programme: This had
ill-effects which include the following:

    a) Inadequate team spirit: For those who were not in the PCO attention was often given to
        tasks and duties associated with the Ministry and/or TEVETA and not those of the TDP.
        Working on a big project like the TDP requires a considerable amount of team spirit. This
        was very visible in such donor funded projects as the World Bank funded Zambia Social
        Investment Fund (ZAMSIF), the Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF) or the European
        Union funded Microprojects Unit. The team spirit was often lacking in the TDP as "team
        members" often felt they owed their allegiance more to their "employer", i.e., MSTVT or
        TEVETA and not to the programme.


                                               45

    b) No incentives for additional work: Staff from the MSTVT, other than the VET felt that
        their involvement in TDP activities was not an integral part of their job descriptions and
        that, therefore, they deserved some extra incentives in the form of financial remuneration
        which never materialised because it is not envisaged in the Zambian public service
        system. This had a negative impact on project implementation.
    c) Programme was too centralised: This came out from especially programme
        implementers, that is, the TTIs who were interviewed who often complained of the long
        delays they experienced in obtaining funding and/or procurements from the TDP
        headquarters.
    d) The sector-wide approach: the majority of the donors channelled their financial
        assistance through the MSTVT while DANIDA disbursed it directly to program
        implementers and TEVETA. In the first case delays in disbursement of funds to TTIs was
        experienced as the centralised system of doing things created unnecessary bureaucracies.
        On the other hand, direct funding of programme beneficiaries made preparations of
        uniform progress reports difficult.

2. Extent to which the TDP has efficiently utilised inputs to achieve intended
 Outputs

The TDP operations have been characterised by a considerable amount of delays in approving
Annual Work Plans and Budgets (AWPB) and hence, disbursement of funds and in procuring the
required equipment. These delays in turn delayed programme implementation, that is, delivery of
inputs and equipment to the programme beneficiaries who have been the technical and
vocational training providers. The latter had sometimes to wait for as long as two years for their
inputs to arrive.

The AWPB once produced and approved have, however, been of very good quality. They had
well designed performance indicators which greatly contributed to good programme
implementation on the part of especially the training institutions (TIs). For even those who did
not receive any tangible assistance (money or equipment) appreciated the contribution of the
monitoring and backstopping exercises undertaken by the TDP for they assured improved
delivery of skills training in their institutions.

The equipment procured and provided to TTIs has also been of very good and durable quality.
The beneficiaries noted that this equipment will greatly contribute to the sustainability of their
TEVET activities even after the phasing out of the TDP.

The assistance provided has, however, not been sufficient to satisfy the growing skills training
needs in the country. Only a few TTIs have benefited. These are mostly those supported by the
MSTVT and the other Government Ministries which participate closely with the programme.
The majority of private and especially parastatal trades training institutions have not. The
introduction of the TEVET Fund will go a long way towards satisfying this need. It, however,
requires to be supplemented by other financing mechanisms like increased stakeholder
contributions and reduction, if not completely doing away with, the tax levied on goods from
TTIs's production units.




                                                  46

Programme management experienced a number of constraints. In the first place it was difficult to
coordinate and develop a team spirit among key programme players who were drawn from
several different units each of which had their own job description and remuneration rates.
Carrying out what their job descriptions demanded was their first priority, especially that they
was no extra remuneration for the added TDP work.

Cooperating partners had each their own way of doing things. Some channelled their assistance
centrally, that is, through government while others provided it directly to the ultimate
beneficiaries, that is, the TTIs and TEVETA. Monies disbursed centrally did not promptly reach
the ultimate beneficiaries, thus delaying programme implementation. The direct funding system
had its own drawbacks for often accounting and reporting was delayed.

3. The effectiveness of the TDP in achieving the goal of TEVET reform

The TDP reforms have been about introducing a quality, demand-driven, equitable and
sustainable training system. The programme scored very highly in terms of introducing quality
and demand-responsive training. Stakeholders Consultation Forums which were held annually
were said to have contributed significantly to demand-responsiveness of the programme while
intensive training activities, though often delayed, contributed to good quality training. The fact
that TEVET system trainees easily find employment is testament to both quality and demand-
responsive nature of the training provided.

The bursary scheme that has been introduced has gone a long way in enabling disadvantaged
groups to access skills training. The scheme does not; however, reach the majority of the needy
would be trainees. Lack of sensitization on the part of some of the TTIs has further denied the
needy disabled people from accessing skills training. Some do not have any fixed quota of
disabled trainees; instead the bursary is given to first come first saved irrespective of disability.

The TEVET Fund and the good quality training and equipment provided by the programme are
the main factors which will promote sustainability of TEVET activities. They are, however, not
sufficient. Involvement of big companies which would contribute substantial amounts of money
and removal of tax on goods from TTIs' production units have been recommended.

Gender trainings and sensitizations have been carried out and have increased women
participation in skills training. The programme has also conducted a number of HIV/AIDS
sensitization activities which have resulted in the introduction of peer educators and focal point
persons.

4. The extent to which the TDP enhanced the implementation of TEVET Policy

The technical and vocational training provided by the TDP covered all levels of certification. It
has been provided to both government and non government training institutions. It has,
however, not succeeded in enticing graduates to enter the informal sector of the economy as
more that 97 per cent of them join the formal sector. Two main factors were found responsible
for this, namely:

    i)      lack of resources, i.e., finances, on the part of TTI trainees to procure the necessary


                                                  47

           equipment to start own small scale enterprises; and
    ii)    the culture on the part of both trainees and trainers that sees a necessary linkage
           between formal skills training and entry into the informal sector employment.

5. Outputs produced and outcomes generated compared to the planned ones

Out of the 48 planned TDP outputs 40, that is, 83.3 per cent, have been achieved. Four of these,
namely, Organization and Management of TEVET, Human Resource Development, TEVET
information systems and TEVET financial system achieved all their planned outputs.
Crosscutting issues achieved only 50 per cent of what was planned.

The production of these outputs has benefited the programme as, among other things, it has
retrained TEVET system staff, introduced gender sensitive approaches and enabled the revision
of the TEVET Act.

6. Contribution of the programme's outputs and outcomes to the attainment
  of the programme's development goals

Each of the eight programme components has contributed, in its own unique way, to the
attainment of the TDP development goals. Thus the Organization and Management of TEVET
has created linkages with other government ministries and other stakeholders for the smooth
implementation of the skills training programmes in the country. The Infrastructure component
has established reliable infrastructure, though not enough, on which TEVET activities are going
to be conducted for a long time while the training component has produced graduates who are
quickly absorbed by the formal sector of the economy.

7. Significance of the results

The findings of the Evaluation not only confirm the importance and relevance of skills training
which was the reason for establishing the TEVET programme in Zambia they also point to the
huge task that lie ahead. The findings have shown that the originally five-year programme which
had to be extended for an extra two years has only been a beginning. Many of the landmark
developments that have taken place within the programme period together with              all the
programme outputs and outcomes have not yet had their full impacts. These include the
following:
     The TEVET Fund which only became fully operational in 2006 and which has not been
       accessed by the majority of would-be beneficiaries;
     Generation of funds for implementing TEVET activities is still problematic. The TEVET
       Levy has been talked about but not much has been done either to put the levy in place or
       to find other means of raising funds. Without adequate funding this very important
       TEVET sector will not be able to operate;
     Implementation of the TEVET Policy which spells out very important and relevant
       approaches to skills development has not yet been fully undertaken. The case of
       crosscutting issues is here very relevant. The policy identifies special targets, i.e., the
       disabled, the women and those affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic. These categories of
       disadvantaged groups have not had the benefits which the TEVET Policy envisages;
     All the other TDP outputs and outcomes have not really had their full effect in terms of


                                                48

        achieving programme objectives; and
     The TEVET activities have a big potential in contributing towards poverty reduction
        which is a major focus of the Fifth National Development Plan (FNDP) and the now
        phased out Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)

Lessons Learnt and Recommendations
The following are some of the important lessons that can be learnt from the now phased out
TDP.

What worked well

It is here strongly suggested that the MSTVT, TEVETA, Government Ministries as well as other
organisations which promote TEVET activities should strengthen the good lessons learnt
activities that were initiated by the TDP.

(i)     An effective way of consulting stakeholders promises success: The Stakeholder
        Consultative meetings which have been held annually have proved very useful in project
        implementation. They have provided the much needed opportunity to programme
        implementers, that is, chief executives of TIs to have a say in the implementation of the
        programme.

(ii)    Effective programme monitoring assures good quality work performance: The
        constant monitoring of the TDP supported TTIs has been greatly appreciated by the latter
        for they have provided guidance to, and promoted, the improvement of quality skills
        training. Adequate monitoring and maintenance of equipment and machinery increases
        the life span. Improvements required include change of attitudes on the part of the
        monitors and inspectors and having more than one monitor or inspector;

(iii)   Sustainability is half assured by good quality equipment: The good quality equipment
        that has been procured by the TDP for its supported TTIs will go a long way in sustaining
        the latter's training activities;

(iv)    Well designed performance indicators are key to successful programme
        implementation: The TDP performance indicators were very well designed. They have
        enabled effective monitoring and evaluation of programme activities, thereby promoting
        programme implementation;
(v)     Well spelt out programme objectives together with the expected outputs and outcomes
        can contribute immensely towards successful project implementation and achieving the
        intended goals.

(vi)    The TEVET Fund has greatly improved the infrastructure at recipient institutions. It
        should, however, be pointed out that only a few institutions and individuals have
        benefited from the Fund.

(vii)   TI Boards: The creation of the boards as a result of the TEVET policy has quickened
        decision-making processes and improved the operations of the institutions;




                                                49

(viii) The importance of a good policy: Having a policy in place has resulted into the
        improvement of the training system as it provides a direction on how to manage the
        training;

(ix)    Good quality equipment: Having the right machinery and equipment results in quality
        and sustainable training; and

(x)     Flexibility when conducting the interventions reduces time lags.

What did not work well

(i)     Slow and frustrating pace of programme implementation: The most often mentioned
        weakness of the TDP has been the slow pace of programme implementation. This has
        been attributed to a number of causes like the often late approval of Annual Work Plans
        and Budgets which in turn delayed funds disbursements, the bureaucracy that associated
        itself with centrally disbursed funds and uncoordinated relationships with the donors. In
        fact the biggest weakness of the Programme was identified by five of the TTI interviewed
        staff as dependence on donors;

(ii)    Need to clarify the role of programme actors from the very beginning: The TDP has
        had many actors drawn from many different work backgrounds and command lines. The
        roles the actors were expected to play in programme implementation was not clearly spelt
        out;

(iii)   Team spirit is essential but difficult to propagate when team players belong to several
        different organizations;

(iv)    Over-dependence on donors: The programme has depended largely on external
        assistance. Sustainability of the TEVET activities is threatened when donor assistance is
        withdrawn;

(v)     Inadequate supply of equipment brings about imbalances in the training and
        compromises quality; and

(vi)    Inadequate consultation with TTIs was responsible for much of the weaknesses during
        program implementation. Major consultations took place at the Annual Stakeholder
        Forum. There was very little individual consultations between the TDP and individual
        TTIs.

Recommendations

The table below shows the key issues observed and their respective recommendation

Table 21: Issues and Respective Recommendations

     ISSUES                                              RECOMMENDATIONS

1    The fact that the TDP was being implemented by staff As far as possible TEVET activities should be



                                                   50

   from different institutions with different conditions of     based in one institution whose staff have same
   service and reported to their respective bosses did not      conditions of service and report to the same
   produce a conducive environment and team spirit which        authority.
   should promoted effective programme implementation.
2  Two different funding approaches were used, namely,          TEVET programme funds should be disbursed
   funds directly provided to the programme implementers        through MSTVT as has been the case with the
   i.e. training institutions and TEVETA; the other was         majority of donors. However, delays in disbursing
   through the MSTVT. The bureaucracy associated with           TEVET funds should be minimised in order to
   the latter approach was responsible for much of the          ensure    effective  implementation    of   training
   delays in implementation of programme activities. On         activities.
   the other hand reporting delays and problems were
   experienced in the direct funding approach.
3  One of the biggest weaknesses of the TDP was the             TEVET      programme      activities  should    take
   frequent delays in undertaking programme activities.         advantage of the fact that the number of programme
   This was often caused by delays in approving AWPBs,          actors has reduced. Direct funding to programme
   delayed disbursements of funds from both the GRZ and         implementers is once again recommended.
   donors and delays in procurements of the required
   inputs,
4  The Evaluation has found that the funding provided has       i)  TEVETA and MSTVT should continue the
   increasingly become demand-driven and of good                    M&B activities;
   quality. The Monitoring and Backstopping (M&B)               ii) The monitors should, however, be sensitized to
   activities of institutions including those that did not          adopt a more friendly attitude towards the often
   receive TDP funding greatly contributed to improved              very senior people that they monitor.
   quality. Some M&B staff, however, often adopted a            iii) The M&B team should consist of at least two
   "boss/master" vs subject/inferior relationships with the          people. This will promote both objectivity and
   heads and staff of the TIs they were monitoring. Often            confidence on the part of TIs.
   only one monitor carried out the exercise. This did not      iv) There is need to correct the image of the
   promote objectivity. The TDP is too often seen                    TEVET programme as merely one of
5  TIs often felt that they were on the passive receiving end   There should be more consultations between the
   and had not much say in what was happening even with         Programme and the individual TIs. This will
   regards to their own activities.                             develop further the demand-driven aspect of the
                                                                TEVET programme.
6  One of the major objectives of the TDP was to address i)          The    training   provided     should  include
   the issue of the diminishing formal sector employment             sensitisation that will do away with the often
   by promoting skills training in the informal sector. The          perceived necessary linkage between the
   predominant TI trainees still seek formal employment              training they receive and formal employment.
   after their training. This is because of not being able to        Formation of cooperatives among graduates is
   access tools and also because of ingrained attitudes              one idea that can be pursued.
   which favour formal employment.
7  New equipment is constantly being developed and              There is need for more capacity building especially
   introduced. TI training does not often take these new        in form of refresher courses in view of new
   developments into account.                                   developments in technology.
8  TDP's procurements have not only been slow and               Central procurements should gradually stop as TIs
   delayed. Often irrelevant equipment was purchased and        should be empowered, or at least consulted, on the
   then sent to the Its in the various provinces and districts. equipment they need.
9  Inadequate funding has reduced the effectiveness of the      i) Government needs to put in place a mechanism
   TEVET programme. This situation is bound to become                which will ensure a steady flow of funds to
   even worse now that donor funding has reduced.                    TIs. This is in order not to negatively affect
                                                                     work plans and the provision of quality
                                                                     training.
                                                                ii) With the assistance of TEVETA TIs should
                                                                     review the level of the student fees they
                                                                     charge.
10 TDP funding was targeted to a limited number of TIs.         i)    There is need to cover more TIs with the
   Often TIs applied for funding but did not satisfy the              training Fund.



                                                         51

     required conditions. In particular many proposals for       ii)   Proper guidelines should be provided to all
     funding were not good enough.                                     registered TIs to enable them produce correct
                                                                       funding proposals.
11   TDP has trained a number of people at high levels. After    A bonding mechanism should be development
     training some of these leave for greener pastures the       which will ensure that people on whom the project
     jobs for which they were trained because their              has spent so much money and time work for it for
     remuneration has not changed.                               at least a given period of time.
12   Training institutions run by parastatal companies have      There is need to review the TEVET policy regarding 
     not benefited much from the TDP. The lack of                qualifications so that all categories of institutions, 
     involvement of these TIs is bound to create big gaps and    including parastatles also get training support from 
     differences in the quality of training given in the         the programme. 
     country.
13   A number of neighbouring countries like Kenya and           TDP should get involved in exchange visits and
     Tanzania were reported to be doing better in terms of       send some TEVET stakeholders on learning tours
     TEVET issues.                                               to neighbouring countries      which are reportedly
                                                                 doing much better in this field of technical
                                                                 education and vocational training to get more ideas
                                                                 on TEVET training.
14   Most TTIs did not have any policy regarding vulnerable      Training institutions should each set a target on the
     individuals applying for training in their institutions. As number of vulnerable people it will admit for
     a result very few vulnerable people have so far             training each year.
     benefited.


Conclusions

The TDP has achieved most of its planned development objectives. This was, however, after
many long delays in the implementation of most of its planned activities. The huge and complex
nature of the programme, that is, the fact that it had so many structures and components and its
key players were drawn from different organisations has contributed to these delays. Despite the
programme having phased out the need and reason for which it was initially created still exist.
Indeed, with the rapid population growth in Zambia, there are now more people needing skills
training to enable them live meaningful livelihoods than they were when the programme was
initiated. All stakeholders, i.e., government, the private, donors faith based and non
governmental sectors should consolidate the activities that have been undertaken over the past
seven years.




                                                           52

b) Borrower's comments on draft ICR

      MINISTRY OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING

                      Department of Vocational Education and Training

COMMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

Reference 3 Assessment of Outcomes
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Quality:
Indicators:

Bullet No 4- At least 90% of training institutions that apply to TEVETA are registered annually.
Comment:
    1. This target was too high as one can not guarantee that training institutions that apply to
       TEVETA would be of high standards. An indicator of 75% would have been more
       realistic.

Sustainability:
Indicators:

Bullet No1- More than 50% of existing training institutions receive support for courses from the
training fund.
Comment:
    1. This target could also not been achieved due to some institutions that were included in
       the target group for those that need support.

Bullet No 2- Total resources available for training sector increased with GRZ contributions
constant in real terms, to 0.8% of GRZ discretionary budget.
Comment:
    1.     Attaining this indicator depends on competing with other sectors that equally would
           require these resources.

Demand Responsiveness:
Indicators:

Bullet No1- of the TEVET graduates during 2004 and 2005 who have gained employment, at
least 70% do so with the time lag of 6 months course completion.
Comment:
    1. This indicator was not realistic as most TEVET graduates complete examinations in
       December and get their results in April the following year, and most employers are likely
       to employ at the start of the year. A more realistic indicator would be one year after
       completion.




                                                53

Bullet No 3- Increased number of national courses whose curricula are reviewed per annum in
response to market demand.
Comment:
    1. Though this indicator was achieved, it did not have a measurable target.

Equity
Indicators:

Bullet No 1- Bursaries were provided by the Zambia Bursary Centre.
Comment:
    1. The Bursary Centre mentioned does not exist; the Ministry has the MSTVT Bursary
        Committee.

Bullet No 3- Female graduates from male dominated TEVET programmes increased by 25%.
Comment:
    1. The issue of gender balance should also have taken into account female dominated
        courses.

Bullet No 5- Where it reads 23 `Public' institutions......
Comment:
    1. Where it reads Public, it should be replaced by MSTVT

3.6 Summary of findings of beneficiary survey and Stakeholder workshops
National Stakeholders Consultative Forum: (page- 19)

Comment: The MSTVT is committed to following- up Consultative Forum recommendations.

Comments on issues raised by Borrower /Implementing Agencies/ Partners
(b) Co financiers

Comment:
    1. The last paragraph ­ MSTVT has been reaching out to line ministries through holding of
        Inter- Ministerial Committee meetings on TEVET and Stakeholder forums.

General Comments

1. Sustainability: MSTVT has put in place a VET Sector Plan, review of the TEVET Policy,
    MSTVT Strategic Plan and TEVET Financing Strategy as some of the measures to ensure
    sustainability of financing of TEVET sector.
2. Consolidation of gains: In order to consolidate the gains made under TDP, MSTVT is
    committed to ensuring that various stakeholders play their roles well i.e. Government line
    ministries in TEVET, TEVETA as regulator, training institutions, private sector, co-operating
    partners and Zambia National TEVET Providers Association. MSTVT is also developing a
    Public-Private Partnership Policy Guideline to guide the PPP in the TEVET sector. In
    addition, there is also a National Skills Development Plan to identify skills gap in TEVET so
    as to direct skills provision in TEVET to those areas. The Government has also developed the



                                                54

   Fifth National Development Plan (FNDP) and Vision 2030 so to have medium term and long
   term planning for the social and economic sectors including the TEVET sector.
3. Increasing Access to TEVET: MSTVT is in the process of developing of developing Open
   and Distance Learning (ODL) Policy to provide guidance to provision of ODL in TEVET.
   This will improve access to TEVET. MSTVT will also work with stakeholders to support use
   of e-learning to enrich TEVET provision.
4. Quality Assurance: MSTVT will provide support and guidance to TEVETA to ensure that it
   effectively and efficiently fulfills its mandate of regulating the TEVET sector.




                                                 55

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Netherlands Embassy's Comments on the Zambia TEVET Development Programme

Netherlands Support to TDP:
Support to the TEVET Development Programme is part of The Netherlands Embassy's
education programme in which over 90 percent goes to the Ministry of Education in support of
the general education sector (i.e. from pre-school to tertiary with the exception of TEVET). The
TEVET sector has been a priority in The Netherlands development co operation programme, in
view of its strategic link not only to education but to private sector development and ultimately
poverty reduction.

The Netherlands support to the skills development sector has had a long history dating back from
1996 to date. Over the years, this support has focused on institutional capacity strengthening.
The following have been the different phases of The Netherlands support to TEVET overtime:

Pre-TDP Period
1995-1996 support to the development of the TEVET policy, Strategy Paper and TEVET Act.

TDP Period
1997 -2002      support to TDP activities related to entrepreneurship and informal sector training.
2003- 2005      support to 4 TDP components (i) organization and management, (ii) human
                resource development (iii) TEVET Financing and (iv) cross-cutting issues
                (including gender), with a total commitment value of $1,165,000.
2005-2006       institutional support to TEVETA and TEVET Fund with a commitment value of $
                1,711,345
2007-2009       institutional support to TEVETA and TEVET Fund with a total commitment value
                of ZMK 16,800,000,000 (approximately  3.4 million).


Programme Performance:

Initially, the intention of the EKN was to commit more finances with a longer term agreement.
However, this was not possible as the pace of implementation of the TDP was slow especially in
the earlier years of the TDP. This resulted in a temporary freeze on Dutch support to the TDP, in
2004. The Netherlands decision to resume support was based on the understanding arrived at
between donors, MSTVT and TEVETA on the changes that required to be made in order to
improve the programme performance. Also to address some of the bottlenecks related the
funding flow between MSTVT and TEVETA (which also caused delays), subsequent
arrangements between Netherlands and MSTVT provided for funds to go directly to TEVETA,
which was to implement most of the activities in the framework of The Netherlands contribution.

There were several underlying causes for the underperformance of the programme. These related
to the reforms made in the institutional arrangements which required re definition of roles and
responsibilities; capacity limitations for programme management and implementation,
inadequate co-ordination amongst the stakeholders; insufficient financial commitment of




                                                  56

government; unclear position with regard to certain policy measures (e.g. training levy) and
inadequate dialogue mechanisms.


In addition, during the TDP implementation, the Ministry of Science Technology and Vocational
Training (MSTVT) experienced frequent turnover of personnel at the level of Permanent
Secretary and Minister which had a negative effect on policy implementation.

Funding Modality and Donor Co ordination in TDP:

During the earlier years of the TDP, The Netherlands was moving more towards providing
programme aid within a SWAP context in the delivery of its development assistance to Zambia.
However, given insufficient trust in MSTVT's policies and systems, The Netherlands support to
the TEVET sector continued to be provided as earmarked project assistance targeting specific
components of the TDP.


Another important aspect for The Netherlands was the issue of donor co ordination. In mid 2000,
EKN was part of a group of donors advancing the harmonization agenda in Zambia, which
eventually resulted in the development of the Joint Assistance Strategy for Zambia (JASZ).
Unlike in other sectors, the JASZ had limited impact in terms of donor participation in the
TEVET sector. The three TDP donors (World Bank, Netherlands and Denmark), did coordinate
their support to TEVET through an informal TEVET donor group arrangement. The three
agencies shared information, consulted with each other and had joint undertakings such as the
joint TDP appraisal, joint 2003 TDP review and several joint positions/reactions were made on
reports, AWPBs and policies. In addition, the contribution of the three TDP donors was in
support of the TEVET policy and national strategic framework, and the three agencies
participated in the joint dialogue structures of the TDP. Donor coordination efforts worked
positively in providing a more coordinated CP engagement within the framework of the TDP.

Other Issues:

Sustainability: In the implementation of the TEVET reforms, government has made
commendable progress with the establishment of a national training authority (TEVETA) for
regulation and the TEVET Fund as a financing mechanism for TEVET. Even though both
TEVETA and the TEVET Fund are important institutions to the development of the sector, these
institutions have been predominantly financed from external resources during the TDP, which
has raised questions about their sustainability and political commitment. As a result of limited
domestic financing, funds from the cooperating partners, World Bank, DANIDA and The
Netherlands, have been instrumental in sustaining these two institutions and have also made the
implementation of the other components of the TDP possible. The issue of financial
sustainability beyond the TDP has been a concern for The Netherlands in view of the current low
level of government allocation to the TEVET sector. There have been positive trends in
government allocation to MSTVT reaching the 0.8 percent mark in 2007, but this is still
insufficient.

Stakeholder participation: Even with the TDP, the sector lacks the necessary public-private
partnership in financing of training and in articulating training demand that meets the



                                                57

expectations and requirements of the labour market. The development of a demand driven
national training system which is part of the development objective of the TDP has not been fully
realized. MSTVT continues to have a negative perception of non-public training provision. It
does not reach out strategically to other actors, such as Ministries of Education, Finance and
Labour, private sector, research institutions and the donor community. MSTVT is inward
looking and underestimates the importance of dialogue and partnerships.




                                                58

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Zambia, (2005), Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training

       Amendment Act, 2005;

Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training (2002), TEVET Development

       Programme, Implementation Plan, 2002 ­ 2006;

Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training (2004) Distance Vocational Training:

A Guide to Implementation, TEVETA, Lusaka Zambia;

Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training (2008) TVET Qualifications

       Framework and related guidelines, TEVETA, Lusaka Zambia;

Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training (2006) Gender Policy, MSTVT,

       Lusaka Zambia;

Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training (2006) Asset Development and

       Maintenance Policy, MSTVT, Lusaka Zambia;

Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training (2007) Disability Policy, MSTVT,

       Lusaka Zambia;

Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training (2006) TEVET Digest, MSTVT,

       Lusaka Zambia;

Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training (2004 and 2008) Graduate Tracer

       Studies, MSTVT, Lusaka Zambia;

Ministry of Science, Technology and Vocational Training (2007) TEVET Fund Implementation

       Monitoring Report;

World Bank, Technical Education, Vocational, and Entrepreneurship Training (TEVET)

       Development Program (TDP), Project Appraisal Document (2001), Development Credit

       Agreement (2001), Aide Memoirs (2002-2008), ISRs, (2002-2008).


External Bibliography:

Bennell, Paul (1999). "Learning to Change: Skills Development Among the Economically

       Vulnerable and Socially Excluded in Developing Countries." ILO Employment and

       Training Department, Geneva.




                                             59

Johanson, Richard and Arvil V. Adams (2004). Skills Development in Sub-Saharan Africa.

      Regional and Sectoral Studies, World Bank, Washington, D.C.




                                            60

                           22°E                                                              26°E                                                            30°E                                                                 This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                             Lake                                                                 World Bank. The boundaries,
             8°S                                                                                                                                      Tanganyika                                                                  colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                           To        TANZANIA                     on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                Sumbu                   Sumbawanga
                                                                                                                                                   Kaputa                                                                         Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                           Mpulungu                                               or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                         Lake                                                                                     a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                     ZAMBIA                                                                                                             Mweru             Lake                    Mbala                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To              boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                         Mweru                                                  Mbeya
                                                                                                                                                        Wantipa
                                                                                                                                             Nchelenge           Mporokoso
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mwenzo
                                                                        DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                    OF CONGO                                                      Kawambwa                                                 Mafinga Hills Karonga
                                                                                                                                              LUAPULA                                                       (2301 m)

                                                                                                                                                              Luwingu                  Kasama

                                                                                                                                                                 N O R T H E R N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To                    Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mzuzu
                                                                                                                                                                Lake
                                                          To
                                                          To                                                                                                                         Chambeshi                                                      Malawi
                                                       Caianda                                                                                 Mansa            Bangwelu

                                                                                                                                                       Samfya
                                                                       Mwinilunga                                                                                         Kope


             12°S                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                            To                                                            Mpika
                                                                                             Solwezi                     Lubumbashi          Chembe                                                                                                        12°S
                                                                                Chisasa                                                                                           Mts.              Luangwa

                                          To
                                          To                                                          Mutanda                                                                                            Mwanya
                                       Lumbala                               N O R T H -                             Chingola       Mufulira

                                                                           W E S T E R N                                                  To Mokambo
                                                                                                                                   Ndola                          Muchinga               Mfuwe
                               Chavuma                                                         Kawana              C O P P E R -                            Serenje                                                  MALAWI
              ANGOLA          Lungwebungu
                                       Zambezi                        Manyinga     Kasempa                              B E L T
                        To
                        To                                                                                                                                                   Chisomo              Chipata                                                     MOZAMBIQUE
                     Lutembo                                                                                                                           Mkushi
                                                                  Kabompo                           Lunga
                                                                                                                             Kapiri Mposhi                                           E A S T E R N
                                                               Bus   a n g a                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                           C E N T R A L                                                                Lilongwe
                                                                                                                                                                                 Petauke
                                            Lukulu                S wa m p                                      Kafue                                                                            Katete
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                     Old Mkushi                                             Furancungo
                                                                                                Lubungu                  g a  Kabwe
                                                                                                                                                                                Nyimba
                                                                  Kaema                                                                             Machechete                                 MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                                                                                     (1488 m)
                                Kalabo       Zambezi                                                             Lukan
                                                                                                                 Swamp                                              Lunsemfwa


                                                                       Luampa                                    Mumbwa                            Rufunsa

                                                     Mongu                                                                                                   Kaulishishi
                                                                                                                                      LUSAKA                                                                     ZAMBIA
                                                                                                                                                              (1420 m)        To
                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                  Mavua               W E S T E R N                          Namwala       Kafue                            LUSAKA                       Cahora Bassa

                                                                                                                 Mazabuka           Kafue                    Luangwa

             16°S       To
                        To      M u  l o n g a        Senanga              Kataba                                                                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                     Chiume        P la i n                                                                                        Chirundu        To
                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                 Harare
                                                      Sitoti                             S O U T H E R N                                                                                                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                Shangombo                      Malundano                                                             Kariba
                                                                                                                     Pemba
                                                                                                         Choma                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                  Cuando                                 Mulobezi                                                  Lake            ZIMBABWE                                                        RIVERS
                                                                                         Bowwood         Kalomo                    Kariba                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                                                             Sesheke

OCTOBER                                                                To
                                                                       To                        Senkobo                                                                                                           RAILROADS                                              IBRD
                                                                     Ngoma                                                                   0     50    100    150        200 Kilometers
                                                    NAMIBIA                                    Livingstone Pokuma                                                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                 To
                                                                                 To
                                                                           Mpandamatenga                                                                                                                                                                                      33514
                                                                                         To
                                                                                         To
       2004                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                        Matetsi                                              0         50        100            150 Miles

                           22°E                                 BOTSWANA                     26°E                                                            30°E

