FILE COPY
Report No. 1210-PNG
Papua New Guinea
Appraisal of a First Education Project
September 22, 1976
Education Projects Division
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation



CURRENCY
Currency Unit           =        Kina
US$1                    =        K 0.787
K 1                             US$1.27
MEASURES
(Metric system used in PNG)
1 m                     =   3.28 ft.
1 m2                    =  10.76 sq. ft.
1 km                    =   0.39 sq. mi.
1 hectare               =   2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
July 1   -   June 30
SCHOOL YEAR
January    -  December
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO   =  Central Planning Office
DOE   =  Department of Education
DOLI  =  Department of Labor and Industry
DOPH  =  Department of Public Health
DOPI  =  Department of Primary Industries
DTWS  =  Department of Transport Works and Supply
HEO   =  Health Extension Officer
HI    =  Health Inspector
RDA   =  Rural Development Assistant
RDT   =  Rural Development Technician
RDO   =  Rural Development Offices
UPNG  =  University of Papua New Guinea



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                                    i - iii
I.    INTRODUCTION                ............................... . -      1
II.    NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ISSUES    ...................                        1
Socio-Economic Background  ...........................                        1
Extension Services   ....... ...... ......................... .               2
Mianpower Requirements and Supply  ....                ................       3
Development Strategy  . ............. .. . . . . .  ................. .       4
Implications ,for Education and Training  .............                       5
III.    THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ...................                          6
Summary Evaluation and Key Issues   .................              .          6
Structure and Characteristics   ..... to................                      7
Levels and Types of Education and Training   ....               .....         7
Education Finance  ......           .............................           13
IV.    THE PROJECT ...............................................                  14
Summary of Project Items  ............................                      14
Rural-Oriented Training  ..............  .............                       15
Highlands Agricultural Training Institute  ........                      15
College of Allied Health Science, Madang  ... ......                     16
Rural Vocational Centers    .................                            16
Teacher Training  . ...................................                      16
Primary Teacher Training  ....... o...............                       16
Secondary Teacher Training  ..............           .... * ....         17
Technician Training - Lae Technical College .....t.*..                       18
Planning and Institution Building   ................              ..         18
Integrated Rural Development and Community-Based
Training  too...........................  ..  .... ..........         18
Policy and Planning Division, Department of
Education ........................ 00...... ...... 00. .000-.         18
National Training Council  ............. . ..........                    19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
V.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION   ...........    20
Cost Estimates  ..............................e.    20
Financial Plan  ............................... .... .    21
Project Implementation  ......... ........... o . .......   22
VI.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  .-..          .......    25
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED ....................................   26
ANNEXES
1 Comparative Education Indicators
2 Population, Literacy and Public Sevices by Province
3 Demand and Supply Projections for Monetized Sector Workforce (1971-85)
4 Enrollments by Level and Type of School, 1960-75
5 Projected Demand for and Supply of Primary School Teachers, 1975-85
6 Projected Demand for and Supply of Secondary Level Teachers 1975-85
7 Projected Demand for and Supply of Certificate and Diploma Level
Agricultural Staff, 1975-85
8 Projected Demand for and Supply of Health Extension
Officer and Health Inspectors, 1976-1986
9 Note on Manpower in Technical Occupations
10  Estimated DOE Budget Requirements 1975/76-1984/85
11   Summary of Estimated Project Costs
12  Summary of Estimated Foreign Exchange Costs by Categories
13  Project Cost Contingency Allowances
14  Technical Assistance
15  Forecast of Expenditure and Disbursements
CHARTS
1  Structure of the Education System
2   Educational Pyramid
3-4  Implementation Charts
MAPS
1   Primary School Enrollment by Sex and Province 1975
2 Location of Project Institutions



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
BASIC DATA
General
Area                                                         475,400 km2
Population (mid-74)                                        2,600,000
Annual population growth rate (1966-74)                        2.6% p.a.
Rural population as fraction of total population (1971)         89%
Laborforce fully or partially integrated in
monetized sector (1971)                                 330,000
GNP per capita including expatriate group, 1973              US$410 p.a.
GNP per capita, local population only, 1973                  US$320 p.a.
GNP per capita including expatriate group,
1975 estimated                                         US$450 p.a.
Educational data                                         Enrollment  Gross enr. ratio
Adult literacy rate (10 years and above, 1971)                           32%
Primary schools (Grades 1-6, 1975)
- belonging to National Education System                 238,300         57%
- independent systems                                     23,000          6%
Secondary level education including vocational(1975)  39,900              -
- of which High Schools (non-vocational)                  28,900         12.3%
Post-secondary institutions including vocational(1975) 5,200              -
- of which Senior High Schools (non-vocational)              850          0.8%
Universities                                               2,380          0.9%
Public expenditure on education (1975 estimate)                    US$89.5 million
- as fraction of total government expenditure                         16.1%
- as fractio* of GNP per capita                                        5.6%
- per capita                                                         US$34
Educational equality
Gini coefficients 1/
- primary enrollment rate by province (1975)                           0.152
- primary enrollment rate by sex (1975)                                0.114
- literacy rate by province (1971)                                     0.312
1/   A measure of distributional inequality ranging from zero for absolute
equity (strict proportional distributiQn of goods) to 1 for absolute
inequity (when the distributed goods fall on one member only).



I                 I                                                                                                                                                                                    4,



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
i.        This report covers the appraisal of an education project in Papua
N w,Guinea for which a credit of US$4.0 million is proposed.  This would be
the first Bank Group assisted project within the eduction sector in Papua
New Guinea.
ii.       The economy of Papua New Guinea is divided into two sectors -
monetized and subsistence - between which there is a widening income gap.
Although average national per capita income in 1973 was about US$410 p.a.,
half the population earned an average of only US$130 p.a. The subsistence
sector encompasses about two-thirds of the indigenous population. More ef-
fective extension services (agriculture and health) and community-based edu-
cation are needed to improve living standards. The effectiveness of current
efforts in these areas are limited by insufficient trained agents and the lack
of a coordinated approach to extension. In the monetized sector, expatriates
constitute a majority in the professional and sub-professional manpower cate-
gories and even make up as much as one-third of the skilled workers in the
labor force. Increased self-reliance requires greater efforts to train in-
digenous people to replace expatriates, particularly in teaching and sub-pro-
fessional technical occupations.
iii.      The education system in Papua New Guinea has developed rapidly,
with enrollment tripling in the past 15 years.  The quality of training is
generally high, and strong emphasis has been put on equalization of oppor-
tunities, relevance of instruction, and local participation in school adminis-
tration.  Training programs exist for a large number of specialized skills.
Despite these strong points, however, several shortcomings of the system
remain. There is a need to increase the capacity of certain institutions
for a more rapid replacement of expatriates. Educational opportunities are
unequally distributed by geographic location, age and sex. The system of
post secondary education is overly complex with a proliferation of small pro-
grams and with alternate entry routs. Recurrent costs are excessive, partly
due to a high proportion of expatriates, but also due to low enrollments per
program. Finally, the relatively high quality of education is partially de-
pendent upon the expatriate teachers. As these are replaced there will be
a need to augment the intensity of inspection and supervision and to allocate
an increasing institutional capacity for in-service training.
iv.       The proposed education project is designed to help overcome some of
these shortcomings within the education sector, to improve the effectiveness
of extension services and to help replace expatriates with trained indige-
nous personnel. The project would include the following components:



- ii. -
No. of additional
Grades      Student Places
(a)  Highlands Agricultural Training
Institute                               11-12              140
(b)  Madang College of Allied
Health Sciences                         11-13               45
(c)  Five Rural Vocational Centers             post primary         -
(d)  Madang Teachers College (Primary)          11-12             145
(e)  Goroka Teachers College (Secondary)        11-13             200
(f)  Lae Technical College                      11+               175
In addition, the project would finance a pre-investment study on rural dev-
elopment and community training, and technical assistance for educational
planning and for establishing a national training council.
v.        Under the project the Highland Agricultural Training Institute and
the Madang College of Allied Health Sciences would be expanded and improved
to raise in ten years the proportion of adequately trained agricultural
agents from 20% to 50% and meet two-thirds of the demand for Health Extension
Officers. The proposed assistance to five rural vocational centers would
help introduce adult education courses and provide supervision and advisory
services to other nearby vocational centers. Rural development efforts would
also be addressed by the proposed expansion of the Madang Teachers College
which would increase the graduation of primary teachers for the least de-
veloped areas. Two project components focus on the replacement of expatriates
with trained indigenous personnel. The proposed expansion of the Goroka
Teachers College would over a 10 year period replace some 1,000 expatriate
teachers in high schools, vocational centers, and technical colleges. The
proposed expansion of Lae Technical College would increase the annual output
of middle level technicians from 130 to 210 in order to reduce the heavy
reliance on expatriates in this area.  The preinvestment study on community
training would help prepare a strategy and projects in non-formal education in
support of rural development efforts.  The proposed technical assistance to
the Department of Education would focus on school mapping and physical plan-
ning to help achieve a more economical and equitable distribution of schools.
The technical assistance to the Department of Labour and Industry would assist
in the proposed establishment of a National Training Council to rationalize
the system of technical and industrial training.
vi.       The total project cost is estimated at US$7.4 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$4.2 million. The proposed credit of
US$4.0 million would finance 95% of the foreign exchange component.
vii.      A Project Management Committee with representatives from the Depart-
ments involved in the project would be established to oversee and guide pro-
ject implementation.  Implementation would be administered by an existing
Office of Project Coordination in the Department of Finance which is respon-
sible for externally financed projects. Civil works would be designed and
supervised by the Department of Transport, Works and Supply for all items



- iii -
except Goroka Teachers College which would be designed and supervised by the
University's construction unit. The Office of Project Coordination has been
strengthened with staff specifically responsible for this project. The
project is in an advanced stage of implementation and construction of some
project institutions has started. Retroactive financing of civil works expendi-
ture is therefore recommended up to US$200,000.
viii.     Contracts for civil works and furniture would, except as provided
below, be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
following procedures which are acceptable to the Association. Foreign firms
and locally established foreign firms would be allowed to participate. Civil
works contracts costing less than US$65,000 in each contract and aggregating a
maximum of US$275,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of negotiated
contracts and construction works not exceeding the aggregate amount of
US$250,000 equivalent may be carried out by force account. Equipment con-
tracts over US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Domestic
manufacturers would be allowed standard preferences. Equipment and furniture
purchases which cannot reasonably be grouped to form bid packages estimated
to cost at least US$50,000 equivalent could be awarded without prior Bank
approval on the basis of competitive bidding advertized locally following
government procedures which are satisfactory to the Association. Books
would be purchased directly from authorized distributors after negotiations
for discounts. In addition, miscellaneous items, not exceeding US$10,000
in each contract and aggregating a maximum of US$100,000 could be purchased
on the basis of three price quotations.
ix.       The proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$4.0 million to the Government of Papua New Guinea on standard IDA
terms.



I



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST EDUCTION PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report presents the findings of a mission 1/ which visited
Papua New Guinea (PNG) during March/April 1976 to appraise an education pro-
ject. The proposed project includes nine items which fall under the follow-
ing headings:  (a) rural oriented training_ (b) teacher txa4.angj {c} teech-
nician training; and (d) planning and studies related to the education sector.
The project was prepared by the Government following the visit of a Bank
Group preappraisal mission in October/November 1975.
II. NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ISSUES
Socio-Economic Background
2.01      Papua New Guinea has considerable potential for development due to
its natural resources but it will need to close wide social, economic, and
regional disparities to fulfill this promise. It must forge a viable nation
out of geographic, cultural and linguistic fragmentation.  The country extends
over an area of 480,000 km2 and its rugged terrain and multi-insular character
make communications difficult. Only 11% of the 2.7 million population lives
in towns; the rest is dispersed among 12,000 often isolated rural villages.
The overall population density is only 5.7 persons per km2 ranging from 0.8
(Western Province) to 22 (Chimbu Province). In 1971 about 50% of all adults
spoke vernaculars only (of which there are about 700); 43% were able to speak
Pidgin, 20% English and 9% Motu. The education system is well developed,
but of recent origin. The stock of educated people is therefore small: In
1971 the adult literacy rate was 30% (Annexes 1 and 2), only 11% of the labor
force had completed primary education, and of 2,500 persons in the professional
manpower category only 100 were indigenous (Annex 3, line 7).
2.02      The economy has a dual structure consisting of a rapidly expanding
monetized sector 2/ and a large, sluggish subsiste ee seetor, There is a great
and widening gap in per capita income between the two sectors. Per capita
income in 1973 was about US$410 for the entire population including the high
1/   Messrs. 0. Bergman (general educator), A.S. Naimie (architect), and
Mrs. T. Tiglao (population/health education specialist).
2/   For a more comprehensive discussion of the economy refer to "Papua New
Guinea: Economic Situation and Development Prospects," April 19, 1976
(green cover).



- 2 -
income expatriate group. Among the local population alone the per capita
income was US$320, the 50% lowest of incomes averaging US$130.  Further,
while GDP grew by 8% p.a. in real term between 1970/71 and 1973/74, the growth
was virtually limited to the moreti-  sector of the economy , which accounts
for over 70% of output and incomes but involves less than half the population.
Per capita income of the local population increased about 3% p.a.
2.03      The subsistence sector represents less than 30% of GDP but encom-
passes about 70% of the population. The predominant subsistence activity is
farming which is usually done with only crude hand tools and without draught
animals. In most areas, rain is plentiful but fertilizers and pesticides are
little known and shifting cultivation predominates. Most farm families have
begun to grow some produce for sale, but this has not yet improved living
standards. Malnutrition occurs for two reasons: (a) traditional staple foods
(mostly root crops) are unvaried and low in protein; and (b) techniques to
store root crops are little known by farmers. There is thus scope for improv-
ing subsistence life by effective extension services and community education.
Extension Services
2.04      The agricultural extension service has, for two reasons, made rela-
tively little impact on subsistence agriculture despite adequate quantitative
staffing (one agent per 135 farm families). First, most extension agents
were concentrated in districts with predominantly cash crop agriculture.
Since 1972 they have been redistributed on a more equitable basis. Second,
the average professional standard of the extension worker is low and the
majority have only primary education. As many of these workers are already
being rejected or bypassed by farmers in more developed areas, the Department
of Primary Industry (DOPI) plans to replace this level of staff with better
educated Rural Development Technicians.
2.05      Health services.  Compared with many countries with a similar over-
all level of development, Papua New Guinea has inherited a relatively well-
developed and broad-based public health system. It has one of the lowest
ratios of doctors to population (1:13,700) but compares favorably with other
developing countries in the ratios of paramedical staff and hospital beds to
population. Geographical disparities in health services still exist; the
population per hospital bed varies from 90 (New Ireland Province) to 460
(E. Highlands Province), (Annex 2). Although there has been a decline in the
portion of total government expenditures allocated for health - 15.6% in
1960/61 to 8.0% in 1974/75 - the Department of Public Health (DOPH) budget
has increased from K 8.8 million 1960-61 to K 24.3 million in 1974-75, an
average annual increase of 7.5%. Health services have thus been given a high
priority.
2.06      Health services are provided by a network of 1,640 aid posts, 144
health centers, 217 sub-centers and 21 district hospitals. Aid posts are
manned by orderlies who serve an average of 1,500 people and have, for the past



-3-
25 years operated on the "barefoot doctor" concept 1/. Aid posts are super-
vised from the health centers 2/ which in turn cover on the average 11 aid
posts and 17,000 people each. A health extension officer runs each health
center, supervising a team of nursing personnel, dental therapists and other
supporting staff. Because the training of the aid post orderly is limited
(one year post grade 6) the quality of the primary health care depends largely
on the supervision from the health centers.
2.07      Increasing emphasis has been placed on extending health care deli-
very to rural areas and on keeping it responsive to community wants and needs.
The 1974-78 National Health Plan, proposes further expansion of community-
based health services in rural areas with increasing reliance on paramedical
personnel. The direction of the plan is towards equalization, decentraliza-
tion and simplification (para 2.11), with reduced emphasis on expensive
urban facilities, training of doctors and use of expatriates. An increased
expenditure on health improvement programs (disease prevention, health
education and medical training) is proposed (22% of health budget in 1973-74
to 30% in 1978-79). The number of health centers would be increased by
about six yearly.
Manpower Requirements and Supply
2.08      Because the formal education system developed only recently, output
of professional, sub-professional, and skilled manpower has lagged behind
demand.  The labor force has therefore depended heavily on expatriates, per-
centages of whom are high in these categories as shown by the 1971 census:
96%, 83%, and 36%, respectively (Annex 3). Since 1971 the number of nationals
has increased steadily, but expatriates are still in the majority in the pro-
fessional and subprofessional categories.
1/   The "barefoot doctor" concept is the utfIlzit6rn of-local-level
workers recruited by and from the community they serve and given
some training to provide simple community based health services under
the supervision of better qualified personnel. The services include
first aid, treatment of common illnesses (often without diagnostic
tests) and basic preventive care such as immunization and health
education.
2/   Health centers have the equipment and facilities of a small hospital
with an average of 30 beds and provide curative, preventive and promo-
tive health services. Difficult cases requiring for instance major
operations or laboratory diagnosis are referred to hospitals.



- 4 -
2.09      The monetized sector can absorb only a small fraction of the labor
force and migration to towns 1/ by unskilled persons and school leavers has
made the lack of jobs in the monetized sector more acute. Assuming an economic
growth rate of 5% p.a. during 1975 to 1985 only 13,000 new jobs would be
created annually in the monetized sector(Annex 3 line 6). This may be com-
pared with a projected annual growth in the labor force of 52,000 persons or
with an annual growth of the educated labor force (Grade 6) of about 30,000
(1980). This points to the need for a type of education which does not
alienate the child from its rural community, but encourages self employment
within the community.
2.10      Projections of manpower requirements by level of qualification are
tentative due to the uncertainty about future patterns and amount of invest-
ment. Even the replacement of expatriates does not provide a suitable basis
for estimating local manpower needs because the present levels of skill re-
quired for occupations is based on Australian standards and may be adjusted
to levels more appropriate to Papua New Guinea. This could reduce the effec-
tive demand for certain groups of manpower and increase it for other groups.
However, it seems that present shortages of qualified local manpower may give
way to surpluses after one decade. Projections by the Central Planning Office
(CPO) based on a growth assumption of 3% p.a. for the monetized sector labor
force, indicate that during 1971-85, the supply of professional and semi-
professional manpower may fall short of target (17,200 persons) by less than
one thousand persons although this target includes a substantial replacement
of expatriates (8,400, see Annex 3). Once expatriates have been replaced the
supply seems to exceed the demand.
Development Strateg
2.11      Thus far, the only economic policy statement by the Government is
the "Eight Point Improvement Plan" of 1972. This Plan serves as a statement
of economic ideology with its emphasis on:
(a) equal distribution of economic benefits;
(b) decentralization of administration;
(c) national self-reliance;
(d) increase in locally raised revenue;
(e) equal participation of women;
(f) increase in the proportion of economy controlled by nationals;
(g) small-scale artisan activity; and
(h) necessary government control and involvement.
However, it does not spell out programs for implementation and the Government
has yet to define a strategy to address either the near or intermediate term
problems. To rectify this, the Central Planning Office is drafting a White
Paper on the nation's development for consideration by the Cabinet. The pro--
blems facing the country (dominance of the subsistence sector, unemployment
in the modern sector, rural-urban migration) suggest that the Paper will focus
primarily on rural development. However, strong proponents of the industrial-
modern sector could influence the direction this policy paper takes.
1/   Between the 1966 and 1971 Censi, urban population increased 16.4% p.a.



2.12      Decentralization of government activity is an important element in
the Eight Point Plan intended to channel more spending into underprivileged
regions and base development programs on local needs (paras 2.04 and 2.07).
Greater self-reliance would also mean increasing efforts to replace expatriates
wi,h qualified local persons, i.e., "localization".  In financial terms, this
would mean controlling expenditure, expanding the local revenue base to re-
place external subsidies, and increased emphasis on local production and
marketing for import substitution. Within this context overall growth for
the next five years is expected to reach some 5-6% p.a. in real terms in the
monetized, and 1% p.a. in the subsistence sector.  Levels and sources of
financing for required investments have not yet been determined.
Implications for Education and Training
2.13      Formulating the Eight Point Plan into a coherent strategy for
national development requires decisions on development programs, investment
priorities and coordination of government administrative machinery (para 2.11).
Firm commitment to and -implementation of the rural development strategy and
programs likely to emerge will place important new demands on the education
and training system.
2.14      The best prospects for immediate improvements rest with the agri-
culture and health extension services because of their already existing
extensive infrastructure (paras 2.04-06) These extension services urgently
need to be improved with more knowledgeable and properly trained agents.
Concrete proposals exist for the expansion and upgrading of agricultural and
paramedical staff training and immediate attention should be given to these
(para 3.14-15). A fundamental reorganization of the various extension serv-
ices currently available in rural areas would thereafter permit a sustained
attack on rural development problems.
2.15      Community-based education should receive priority due to the
important role it could play in increasing farmer awareness of the develop-
ment process. Various community-based education and training programs cur-
rently undertaken by government agencies (Departments of Primary Industry,
Education, Public Health, Business Development, and Labor para 3.20) need to
be reformulated within integrated rural development programs and more closely
coordinated.
2.16      As the monetized sector can absorb only a small proportion of the
growth in labor force (para 2.09), and about 70% of the labor force is fully
or partially dependent on subsistence income, self-employment would be a major
means for improving living standards. Until integrated rural development
programs and comprehensive community-based training programs are formulated
rural vocational training centers (para 3.09) seem to have the best potential
for promoting self-employment.
2.17      For the formal education system the Eight Point Plan means conti-
nued emphasis on: (a) localization to reduce reliance on expatriate personnel,
(b) female participation in education (para 3.03); (c) services in less
developed areas; and (d) wide participation in school management.



- 6 -
III. EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR I/
Summary Evaluation and Key Issues
3.01      Papua New Guinea has achieved a well developed education system
in many respects. Virtually all children may have access to primary schools
within two decades; local participation in school administratiion is strong
at all levels; quality is generally high; and attention is given to relevance
of content and toa eqal ization of-opportunitites.  The following seem to be
the main issues that should be addressed by the Government.
(a)  Educational opportunities are unequally distributed by geo-
graphic location, age and sex. The Government has accorded
high priority to the equalization of opportunities by region
(para 3.07) but has neglected disparities by age and sex. Ef-
forts within rural development, adult and out-of-school education
are poorly coordinated and receive low priority in financial allo-
cations (para. 3.20). A large portion of girls (56%) do not attend
primary schools, a fact which is due more to parental attitudes
than lack of schools (para. 3.03-04).
(b)  The system of post-secondary education is overly complex with a
proliferation of small scale training programs and alternate entry
routes (para 3.19 and Chart 1). The Government should rationalize
the system by consolidating and standardizing teaching programs.
(c)  PNG employs a high proportion of expatriates in the labor force.
This has helped to achieve high standards of work but has also
contributed to high costs, rapid turnover of staff and sometimes
to insufficient understanding of local requirements. The Government
accords high priority to replacement of expatriates by local per-
sons, or "localization". Localization is particularly urgent in
the case of teachers and technical manpower at sub-professional
and skilled worker levels (para 2.10, 3.12 and 3.18).
(d)  A large proportion of civil servants will be young and inexperienced
due to rapid localization and expansion of the Government service
in the period 1975-85. Under these circumstances the Government
needs to adopt special measures to maintain the standard of its
services. The Government should (i) maintain a high level of in-
spection and supervision, (ii) allocate an increasing institutional
capacity for in-service and re4training courses, and (iii) give
particular attention to the staffing of training institutions. The
costs of these actions would be small compared with the savings
generated by the localization programs (para 6.01).
1/   See Appendix 1 for a more detailed description and analysis.



- 7 -
(e) Another area of major concern is the high recurrent costs per stu-
dent at all levels of education. Increased localization, fewer
institutions and larger class sizes will eventually reduce costs.
However, since local teachers and administrators,are also paid at
high rates, recurrent costs will still remain excessive. The problem
will thus continue for sometime despite localization, economies of
scale and Government efforts to restrain further salary increases
(para 3.21).
Structure and Characteristics
3.02      Formal education and training in Papua New Guinea consists of the
primary stage (Grades 1-6) and the secondary stage (Grades 7-10), followed by
a complex system of post-secondary and higher education 1/ (Charts 1 and 2).
The efforts of most church agencies have been integrated with those of the
Government to form a National Education System. 2/ The Department of Educa-
tion (DOE) bears the main responsibility for education, but several other
departments provide formal and non-formal training within their respective
fields. Local participation in education administration is strong. Each
school subject matter has a managing board which may adjust and approach to
local needs and attitudes. Further, local government councils and provincial
education boards have their respective administrative and financial respon-
sibilities. (Local councils provide and maintain primary school buildings).
Levels and Types of Education and Training
3.03      Primary schools within the National Education System enrolled
244,000 pupils in 1975, 69% and 44% of the respective male and female age
groups. Until 1965 expansion was rapid but has since averaged only 2.7% p.a.
(Annex 4). The declining growth is apparently caused by parental attitudes
towards female education as Grade 1 enrollment in many districts has reached
close to 100% for boys but has stablized at about 50% for girls. Girls are
particularly under-represented in Enga, E. Highlands, W. Highlands and Chimbu
provinces where enrollment ratios range from 15% to 28% (Map 1). Classes
are coeducational, but most teachers (78%) are male. Internal efficiency
has improved rapidly. The proportion of entrants completing primary school
increased from 39% between 1961-66 to 72% between 1970-75. Educational
opportunities simultaneously became more evenly distribuLted. The Gini co-
efficient-which is a measure of distributional inequity-thus improved from
0.26 in 1970 to 0.15 in 1975.  Schools are established upon the initiative of
local communities without prior planning by the Provincial authorities. In
sparsely populated areas schools economize by omitting new intakes certain
years.  Multiple grade classes, which would be reasonable under the circums-
tances, are usually not organized.
1/   There are two universities, two senior high schools, 11 primary
teacher training colleges and at least 25 other institutions with
grade 10 entry requirement. The average enrollment among the latter
is as low as 60 students.
2/   Only two church agencies still operate schools outside the National
System. Their joint enrollment is about 10% of the National System
enrollment.



- 8 -
3.04      Primary education in PNG has many strengths:  widespread use of
school radio, good local mathematics and science curricula with supporting
materials, and intense supervision by school inspectors. Problem areas,
apart from those caused by the physical isolation of many schools, primarily
relate to: (a) poor attendance among girls; (b) language of instruction--
children are taught in English although this is used in less than 3% of the
homes; 1/ and (c) cultural differences between "traditional" and "modern"
societies which make it difficult to devise relevant curricula. Serious
efforts should be made to promote female participation by increasing the pro-
portion of female teachers in rural areas, strengthening community links by
the use of local teachers who may be more easily accepted by the parents
(para 3.10), using radio programs to promote positive attitudes towards
female education, and planning the location of schools more systematically.
Increasing the number of female teachers in rural areas would serve to
demonstrate that salaried employment is available to females and also for
social reasons make it more acceptable for parents to send their girls to
school.
3.05      The 1975 Education Plan suggested that Grade 1 enrollment should
be expanded from 68% in 1975 to 85% in 1980 and 95% in 1985. However, upon
closer examination, these figures were found to be overly optimistic and the
Department of Education now plans on an enrollment ratio of 85% in 1985.
This revised goal seems attainable but requires deliberate actions to en-
hance female education. The Plan also suggested-an increased use of local
languages in primary schools, but this reform was shelved by a Cabinet
decision, reportedly for fears that it would contribute to fragmentation of
the nation. However, a viable solution to the language problem should
continue to be a major policy issue.
3.06      Second level education has been expanding at a rate exceeding
11% p.a. (Annex 4). It is provided by 88 high schools (30,500 pupils, of
which 1,600 are of non-PNG origin), 94 vocational centers (5,400 pupils),
10 "Skulanka" (about 600 pupils in a grade 7-8 program of vague vocational
character), 9 technical colleges with Grades 9 and 10 (2,500 pupils), and
some 2,500 places in various other vocational programs. Social demand for
secondary education is great although graduates are beginning to experience
difficulties in finding employment.
3.07      High schools (Grades 7-10, Forms 1-4) provide a two-stage educa-
tion in which 60% continue after Grade 8. Entry is based on a quota system
whereby places available in a province are distributed on a pro rata basis
to primary schools within that province. Opportunities for secondary edu-
cation have thus been equalized within each province, but wide variations
between different provinces remain. Nationally about one-third of all grade
6 levels continue in grade 7. Curricula are well-balanced and schools are
required to grow or earn part of their food supplies. Main problems are
due to; (a) a turnover rate among the 66% expatriate staff exceeding 20% p.a.;
(b) wide variation in educational attainment of entrants, which is partially
1/   Source:  Population Census (1971).



- 9 -
a consequence of the quota system; and (c) difficulties in defining a rele-
vant curriculum when a steadily increasing proportion of school leavers is
unable to find further training or wage employment. This is particularly
acute for grades 7-8.
3.08      The 1975 Education Plan proposes to open 34 new high schools before
1980, which would increase grade 7 enrollment from 10,100 to 13,300. This is
partially in order to meet the social demand for secondary education, but
primarily to keep educational opportunities for Grade 6 leavers equal as pri-
mary enrollments grow. Thereafter expansion would be curbed to avoid even
more serious employment problems. The proposed moratorium on secondary expan-
sion is commendable, but will probably be difficult to implement. It may be
more effective to reduce the initial expansion rate and to achieve part of
the equalization of opportunities by abolishing the strict provincial limita-
tion which was only recently imposed on the recruitment to high schools. A
wider than provincial recruitment for boarding schools would also assist in
building a national identity.
3.09      Rural Vocational Centers  (Post primary) provide practical training
in agriculture and a variety of technical skills such as sheetmetal work and
carpentry to about 5,400 primary school leavers. There is no standard curri-
culum and each of the 94 centers offers a one or two year course according to
the needs of the locality and in agreement with its Board of Management. The
training emphasizes practical experience in production and management with a
minimum of formal classroom instruction focussing on bookkeeping and functional
literacy. The centers are expected to assist the trainees to establish them-
selves as farmers or artisans in their communities. Each center is also ex-
pected to cover its own operating costs, excluding instructor salaries, from
its own production. At present 56% of the staff are expatriates but local
staff, primarily technicians and agricultural extension staff, are being
trained in a special one-year course at Goroka Teachers College. In addition,
selected instructors are trained as managers for the centers in a three-month
course at Port Moresby Teachers College. Some centers have successfully
trained students in practical skills and assisted the placement of graduates
in self-employment. Other centers have had poor management and have not given
sufficient assistance to the trainees after the course.
3.10      Primary teacher training (Grades 11-12) is conducted in nine col-
leges, seven of which are run by church agencies, with a total enrollment of
2,140 trainees and an annual output of 900 in 1975. The overall capacity
is 2,400 places, of which 200-300 are set aside for in-service training of
teachers (Annex 5). The quality of primary teacher training is fair, and
problems primarily relate to: (a) frequent staff changes (85% expatriates);
(b) difficulties in preparing a culturally and linguistically varied group
of students for "community oriented" teaching; and (c) selection of trainees
which is based solely on achievement and disregards the need for more more
trainees from the less developed areas. A staff development program, includ-
ing local and foreign training, addresses the first problem area, but due to
lack of candidates it will probably take more than a decade to replace the
expatriates. A revision of the recruitment procedures could address the other



- 10 -
two problems: The Government should recruit trainees from their probable area
of future service (most teachers will, during next decade, be posted to the
Highland areas) (see Map 1). In addition, priority should be given to fe-
male applicants (para 3.04).
3.11      The revised primary enrollment projections (para 3.05) require only
moderate capacity expansions. The DOE plans on an expansion of existing in-
stitutions by 240 places before 1985, half of which is to be achieved by 1978.
3.12      Secondary teacher training is provided by the University of Papua
New Guinea at the main campus in Port Moresby (degree level) and at Goroka
Teachers College (diploma level). The output of degree teachers is small
and will be of little significance to high schools during the early eighties.
For the forseeable future degree graduates will be absorbed by post-secondary
institutions and into administrative posts (Annex 6, lines 27-28). Goroka
Teachers College has an enrollment of 430 and an output of 135 diploma level
teachers (1975). The following courses are offered: (a) three years post-
grade 10, (b) two years post-grade 12, and (c) one year for vocational or
technical subject trainees with adequate subject background. The quality of
the training is good but courses are organized with free subject options which
has led to small class sizes, less desirable subject combinations and uncom-
fortable timetabling for the students with periods scattered throughout the
day. A reorganization of the curriculum to a fixed subject combination sys-
tem would resolve these problems and raise the student/teacher ratio from
11 to 15. This would reduce the unit costs which are high, K 2,800 p.a.
3.13      The main challenge faced by the College is to localize the second-
ary teacher force in the shortest possible time without undue lowering of pro-
fessional standards. The urgency is caused by the high cost to PNG of its
more than 1,100 expatriate secondary level teachers, and the disturbance
caused to schools by frequent staff changes. At the current rate of output,
and with the projected secondary school enrollment (para 3.08), the teaching
force would not be localized until about 1990 and 6,000 man-years of expa-
triate services would be required. To meet this challenge the Government
plans to increase the capacity of the College to 630 places. In addition a
one-year course to convert primary teachers to secondary school teachers
(Chart 1) should be established at Goroka from 1977. After only a year, this
would increase the output from the college and would provide a broadly oriented
teacher for secondary schools. The projected supply and demand of secondary
teachers is illustrated by Annex 6.
3.14      Agricultural Extension Training.  At present, there is a three-
tiered organization for agricultural extension staff:
- Rural Development Assistants (RDAs) - 64% of the field staff, most
of whom have only primary education and no agricultural training;
- Rural Development Technicians (RDTs) - 24% of the field staff,
who have a two-year Certificate training (Grades 11-12) at the
Highlands Agricultural Training Institute (HATI) or the Popondetta
Agricultural Training Institute; and



- 11 -
- Rural Development Officers (RDOs) - 12% of the field staff, which
have either three years Diploma training at Vudal Agricultural
College (Grades 11-13), or a university degree.
In March 1975, a comprehensive report on agricultural education and training 1/
was submitted which proposed a reorganization and simplification of the pre-
sent structure. A major recommendation, which has been accepted, is to
eliminate the RDA level and introduce a two-tier organization of RDTs and RDOs
(para 2.04). Existing RDAs would be gradually retired or, where possible,
upgraded with the ultimate objective of providing- six RDTs for each RDO.
Since RDAs generally received no systematic training their replacement with
RDTs would require an expansion of the existing training, program as shown in
Annex 7a. Another strong recommendation of the report was to admit staff for
training as RDOs only after a period of field experience as RDTs (Chart 1),
rather than selecting secondary school students for immediate training at the
higher level as at present. This recommendation, which is being implemented
by the Government, is expected to (a) improve the quality and relevance of the
Diploma training as all trainees would have a better understanding of their
future tasks; (b) improve the promotional structure for certificate level
staff; and (c) simplify the training system and simultaneously allow for
adjustment of Diploma level outputs at shorter notice.
3.15      Public Health and Medical Training.  Papua New Guinea has a well
developed system of medical training.  The system isludes training of:
(a) doctors and dentists at the University; (b) extension officers and ins-
pectors, registered nurses, technicians, and therapists at two Colleges of
Allied Health Sciences; (c) nurses and nurse aids at nine church and two
government institutions; and (d) aid post orderlies at 14 training centers.
The quality of the training is generally good and training capacities are
adequate, except for doctors, Health Extension Officers, and Health Inspectors.
Prospects for improving health care lie primarily at the paramedical level
(paras 2.06-2.07) in which the two Colleges of Allied Health Sciences have a
crucial role to play. The Port Moresby College is primarily responsible for
registered nurse and post-basic training, while the Madang College is the
source of Health Extension Officers (HEOs) and Health Inspectors (HSs).
The Madang College is the only institution of its kind in the Pacific and 6%
of its capacity is reserved for foreign students. The training programs last
three- years with the second year devoted to supervised field training. The
training is good considering the College's dilapidated facilities and the
difficulties in recruiting qualified staff due to low salaries and lack of
staff housing. The curriculum is oriented to the country's health needs
and emphasizes prevention of malnutrition and communicable diseases and
health promotion. The current admission capacity is 50 HEOs and 20 HIs, and
the annual output is limited to 30 HEO and 12 HIs. The high wastage rate,
generally 40% during the three years, is partially due to inadequate facil-
ities but is also attributable to the high level of integrity and respon-
sibility required by the profession.
1/   Agricultural Education and Training in Papua New Guines.  Report of
the Working Party, Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries,
March 1975.



- 12 -
3.16      The projected expansion of the rural health delivery system would
require an increase in the number of Health Extension Officers from 150
(1975) to 490 (1985) and Health Inspectors from 60 (1976) to 130 (1985).
However, these figures do not include the demand for Health Inspectors for
private enterprise which has caused a wastage from civil service exceeding
20% p.a. (Annex 8). To be able to meet these manpower requirements, it would
be necessary for the College to double its present admission for HEOs and
increase admission for HIs by 30%. However, because of limited number of
hospital beds of the Madang General Hospital which are used for the clinical
practice, the College cannot increase its intake by more than 25%. At this
rate, and assuming normal wastage rates, it would take about ten years for
the Department of Public Health to meet the projected manpower requirement
for HIs and to supply about 70% of the HEOs.
3.17      Technical Education and Industrial Training (see Annex 9).  The
needs for skilled workers are being met by a system of seven technical and
two secretarial colleges (minimum Grade 8, but increasingly Grade 10 entry).
Their enrollments (1975) are as follows:
-    General studies, Forms 3 and 4 with 40% technical ed.    2,490
-    Secretarial (20 - 40 weeks)                                     590
-    Apprenticeships, Pre-Employment Technical Training
Arts & Craft, (20 weeks or longer), 1,400 regis-
tered, of which released for training:                       360
In addition, there are several smaller programs set up by Government Depart-
ments and private employers for the purpose of training their own staff
in specific skills. The average student/staff ratio in the nine colleges is
14 and the quality of the training is high. Expatriates account for 86% of
the staff. At the higher technical level, the University of Technology
in Lae is staffed and equipped on a scale likely to be able to meet the
needs for graduate scientists and technologists into the foreseeable future.
Enrollments amount to 880, and the output was 70 in 1975 and is projected
to reach 190 in 1985.
3.18      The only local sources of middle-level technicians are the certi-
ficate level courses offered in the Lae and Port Moresby Technical Colleges
which have a joint output of 130 p.a. The Port Moresby college concentrates
on the needs of the construction industry, whereas the Lae College conducts
courses in business studies, electrical, mechanical and civil engineering,
and for laboratory technicians. Courses are organized on a block-release
basis and attendance for Certificate courses at any one time may, not exceed
210 (1975). Entry is at present open to Grade 10 school leavers or Grade 8
leavers with two years additional technical education in one of the seven
technical colleges. In order to produce a sufficient number of technicians
and skilled workers and at the same time improve the quality of technician
output, the Government plans to: (a) restrict entry to certificate courses
to High School leavers (Grade 10); (b) concentrate certificate work at Lae
Technical College by transferring the building construction course from Port
Moresby; (c) expand and improve the physical facilities at Lae to cater to



-13 -
the increased enrollment and quality of the training; and (d) introduce Pre-
Employment Technical Training for Grade 8 or 10 leavers in the Technical
Colleges, which will be a pre-requisite for entry to indentured apprentice-
ships. Sufficient classrooms exist at Lae for this expansion, but additional
lajoratories, equipment and books would be required.
3.19      The existing system of non-formal industrial training is complex
and uneconomic. Programs and facilities have, in recent years, been set up
in a haphazard and uncoordinated manner by both government departments and
private employers, resulting in duplication of expeusivi-faeilities, small
enrollments per program and consequently excessive costs per trainee. Three
Acts of Parliament and two official Governmental Decrees assign responsibi-
lities for training and non-formal education to various bodies outside the
Department of Education which is responsible for programs conducted in Tech-
nical Colleges. In order to provide a mechanism for rationalization, the
Government plans to set up a National Training Council that would integrate
all non-formal technical training programs with the formal training conducted
in the Technical Colleges.
3.20      Integrated Rural Development and Community-based Education.  The
Government's "eight aims" (para 2.11) place emphasis on rural development
and community self reliance. Consistent with this non-formal rural
education is promoted by many departments as illustrated by the following
examples of current programs: (a) Department of Education: "Community
Secondary Education", (b) Prime Minister's Office: "Village Education for
Women", and "Village Development Task Force,"; (c) Department of Primary
Industry: Adult education through officers posted to live and work in
villages; (d) Department of Public Health: Basic education in health,
hygiene and nutrition, and (e) Department of Business Development: Small
business and industry training. This list illustrates the considerable
interest devoted to rural extension services and community training, but
there are two major weaknesses, in the approach: There is no integrated
approach to rural development work and accordingly, coordination between
participating agencies is weak; the financial support for rural development
and adult education is inadequate (para 2.14).
Education Finance (Annex 10)
3.21      Education expenditures have maintained a fairly constant share of
total government spending (16%) but large shifts are occuring between levels.
The share of primary education fell from 46% in 1966 to 33% in 1972 while
expenditures on tertiary education grew from 8% to 23% of the total. These
shifts reflect increasing enrollments at the tertiary level where unit costs
are exceptionally high, K 4,500 per student year 1/. High unit costs are a
major source of concern for all levels of education in PNG. In the primary
school, the cost to the Government for one pupil year is K 90, or 28% of the
1/   This unit cost (US$5,700) may be compared with the average unit
cost for University education in Thailand which is about US$600.



- 14 -
per capita GNP. Serious efforts should be made to reduce these high unit
costs by accellerated localization of teachers, rationalization of the complex
system of post secondary education, and larger class sizes. However, unit
costs will remain high as long as the salaries for teachers and administrators
remain at current levels. (A primary school teacher is paid at a rate of 11
times the per capita GNP, as compared to an average of 6.2 for 13 Asian states.
See annex 1) The Government is aware of this problem and in current hearings
on indexation of wages is attempting to find ways to reduce the proportion of
salaries which is guaranteed against inflation.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      Summary of Project Items
In broad terms the proposed project has two major objectives:
(a)  to help meet manpower needs in agricultural and health extension,
the teaching service (primary, secondary, vocational and technical)
and industry (middle level technicians).
(b)  to support planning and studies essential to the long range develop-
ment of education and training in PNG--specifically to find a more
comprehensive approach to rural oriented training, to strengthen
the planning capability at provincial level (primary school facil-
ities) and to rationalize the complex system of industrial training.
4.02      The project items (locations shown on map at the end of this report)
would be as follows:
Present      Additional provision
Enrollment   Student Boarding  Staff
Project Component                Grades   capacity    places   places   houses
Rural-oriented trainiiig
(a) Highlands Agricultural
Training Institute, DOPI    11-12       60          140       140      28
(b) College of Allied Health
Sciences, Madang, DOPH        11-13    120           45        64      12
(c) Five Rural Vocational
Centers, DOE                   (7)     300           -         -       -
Teacher training
(d) Madang Teachers College
(Primary), DOE               11-12    300           140       140       5
(e) Goroka Teachers College
(Secondary), (UPNG), DOE    11-13    430            200       180      16
Technican training
(f) Lae Technical
College, DOE                  11+      170          175         0       8



- 15 -
In addition the project would finance a preinvestment study on rural com-
munity training (CPO) and provide technical assistance for educational ;lan-
ning (DOE) and establishing of a National Training Council (DOLI).
4.03      The Government would monitor the efficiency of the training insti-
tutions with a view toward adjusting their curricula to the needs of the
country. Because of scarce local resources for such work this would be
limited to: (a) annual data on the number of applicants, acceptances, enroll-
ments by year of study and outputs, and (b) selected tracer studies where
results are expected to have essential implicalioUn.-r-the training program.
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that it would
maintain a monitoring system and that it would provide the Association with
annual summaries of its findings during project implementation and three
years thereafter. Tracer studies would be conducted for the Health Inspector
training (para 3.16) and the Rural Vocational Centers.
Rural oriented training
4.04      Highlands Agricultural Training Institute (HATI), Mt. Hagen -
(Estimated Cost US$0.75 million). The objective of the project is to help
replace untrained extension agents with certificate level staff (para 2.04).
The proposed project would expand the capacity of HATI from 60 to 200 student
places. It would finance student and teacher accomodation, a community hall
and minor expansions to teaching areas. An additional benefit of the expanded
student accommodation would be that the College could begin to admit female
trainees which is essential as farming is mostly done by women. Economies of
scale would reduce unit recurrent costs about 40% from K 5,900 to about K 3,1O00
Staff localisation will in due course lead to further reductions. The College
is adequately equipped and the quality of the training is good. Training
concentrates on smallholder and subsistance agriculture but includes also
plantation agriculture. An important part of the curriculum is training in
rural development work, emphasizing problem identification, planning, deci-
sionmaking and resource mobilization. A nutrition survey forms part of this
practical field training. A home economics course would be introduced, for
which FAO is providing technical assistance but there would be no difference
between the training of female and male extension agents. Because of the
large amount of practical and individual instruction (rural development
course) a student/staff ratio of about 12 would be necessary.
4.05      A consequence of the proposed expansion of HATI is that the prac-
tical training now provided to the Vudal trainees at a field camp next to
HATI must be arranged elsewhere. Solutions to this problem are available.
The increased ouLput of RDTs would lead to slightly reduced outputs of RDOs
(Annex 7). During negotiations the Government gave assurances that the Vudal
field course would be relocated. It also provided evidence that the Diploma
training (RDO) was being reorganized to a one year post certificate (RDT)
program as proposed by the Agricultural Training report (para 3.14).



- 16 -
4.06      College of Allied Health Sciences, Madang (Estimated Cost US$0.97m).
The proposed project would strengthen the present training program and in-
crease the enrollment capacity of the College in Madang from 120 to 165 places.
This is the maximum feasible expansion because of constraints on the number of
available hospital beds for clinical practice (para 3.16). The project would
finance: (a) construction and remodelling of an administrative building cum
library, classrooms, audiovisual building, student accommodation and staff
housing; (b) training equipment and materials; and (c) three man-years of ad-
visory services, three and a half man-years of foreign and six man-years of
local fellowships for curriculum improvement and staff development, As a
result of this project, the College is expected to attract better students,
improve the quality of its training program and improve the completion rate
of entering student from 60% to about 80% (para 3.15). This, together with
economies of scale, would reduce the annual recurrent cost per graduate by
about 35% from K 3,250 to about K 2,500.
4.07      During negotiations the Government provided assurances that it
would increase the established teaching posts from 19 to about 30 (including
Kainantu, Okapa and Bogia Community Health Practice Centers) and make the
salaries of the teaching staff comparable to those of teachers in other post
secondary educational establishments.
4.08      Rural Vocational Centers (Estimated cost US$0.28 million).  The
proposed project would provide three man years of technical assitance, addi-
tional equipment and travelling costs for an experimental program at five
of the best managed vocational centers. The purpose of this assistance would
be to find ways to improve the effectiveness of the country's 94 vocational
centers (para 2.16). On an experimental basis the five centers would be
strengthened and reorganized in order to (a) involve other Government agen-
cies concerned with rural development; (b) introduce adult education courses;
(c) assume responsibility for supervising the other centers in their respec-
tive regions; (d) provide extended training to the best vocational trainees
to create a core of particularly skilled farmers and craftsmen; and (e) pay
more attention to follow-up of trainees. The centers would supply additional
tools and equipment to neighbouring vocational centers as needed and assist
the organization of an effective program of follow-up support for trainees
who have returned to their communities. The project would bring in rural
adults who are now excluded from skill training and who sometimes resist
innovation by the adolecents trained in the centers.  The project would be
evaluated for possible expansion to other centers (para 4.15).
Teacher Training
4.09      Primary Teacher Training (Estimated cost US$0.63 million).  The
proposed project would expand M.4adang Teachers College by 144 places (from
296 to 440) with the objective of increasing the teacher supply in areas
where enrollment ratios are particularly low. The project would increase
the overall primary teacher training capacity from 2,400 to 2,540 places. It
would finance student accommodation (2/3 female), staff housing, a library,
additional equipment and books. It would also provide modifications to



- 17 -
existing buildings and new furniture in order to reduce recurrent costs by
permitting an increase in student/teacher ratio. Instead of a fixed class
size of about 25, varying group sizes (15, 30, 120) would be used. As a
result, it would be possible for the College to provide good quality training
at a student/ tutor ratio of about 17. The norm for primary teacher training
in PNG is 15 at present. The College participates in an "Associateship
Scheme" for localization of staff which includes on the job training and
foreign and local fellowships.
4.10      During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would
revise the recruitment procedures for primary teacher training to encourage
representation of female trainees and trainees from the less developed areas
most in need of teachers (para 3.10 and Map 1).
4.11      Secondary Teacher Training (Estimated cost US$1.16 million).  The
objective of this project item is to replace the expatriate teachers in
secondary level institutions before 1986 in order to save foreign exchange
and reduce staff turnover. The financial saving to PNG would well exceed
the required investment (para 6.01). The project would finance an expansion
of Goroka Teachers College by 200 places from 430 to 630 places and introduce
a one-year secondary conversion course for primary school teachers (para 3.13).
It would provide boarding facilities, staff housing, a multipurpose building,
library books and some equipment. The college would provide the following
diploma courses for secondary level teachers:
Entrance requirement           Duration  Enrollment  Output  Teaching duty
1.  Grade 10                     3 yrs         510     150 p.a. High schools
2.  Primary teachers certi-    1 yr             60       56 p.a. High schools
cate (Grade 12) plus                                         (preferably
one year's teaching                                          Grades 7-8)
3.  Adequate technical or         1 yr          60       56 p.a. RVCs, Technical
agricultural background                                      and Secretarial
(usually corresponding                                       Colleges, and
to Grade 12)                                                 High Schools
Total                               630      262
However, if the Government manages to limit high school expansion to 43,000
places (as proposed in the 1975 Education Plan), outputs would have to be
scaled down just after 1985 (Annex 6). There would be no difficulties in
using the available capacity for other purposes e.g. primary teacher training.
(See Annex 6 for projections of teacher requirements).
4.12      The curricula would be reorganized to a fixed subject-combination
system devised to suit the needs of the secondary schools (para 3.13), and
the college would have the final responsibility for student acceptance. As
a result of the reorganization of the course structure, the College would



- 18 -
be able to operate at a student/teacher ratio of 15 instead of current 11.
During negotiations and the Government gave assurances that it would
implement the one year primary-secondary conversion course (para 3.13).
Technician Training - Lae Technical College (Estimated cost US$1.50 million)
4.14      The objectives of this project component are to:  (a) reduce the
number of expatriate middle level technicians in industry, commerce and
government; (b) cater for an increasing demand for this level of personnel;
and (c) relocate the building certificate courses from Port Moresby to Lae.
The total yearly output of technicians would be increased from 135 (1975) to
210 (1980) (Annex 9). Enrollment at Lae would increase by about 175 due to
the certificate courses. The overall capacity of the College would reach
about 900 students compared with the current enrollment, including Pre
Employment Technical Training, of 585 (1975).
4.15      The project would provide a new laboratory block, staff housing,
workshop and laboratory equipment (to service the Technician Certificate
courses) primarily in the engineering and building construction fields and
library books. Eight man-years of specialist services would be included for
installing and commissioning the equipment and for introducing improved
curricula and teaching methods in building, electrical, mechanical and civil
engineering. The freed capacity at Port Moresby Technical College would be
used for increased training of skilled workers (para 3.18).
Planning and Institution Building
4.16      Integrated Rural Development and Community-Based Training (Estimated
cost US$0.16 million). The proposed project would finance a pre-investment
study of existing community-based training programs and government services.
It would seek to identify a strategy for the reorganization, integration and
support of these two elements in order to promote rural development (para 2.14).
The study would form part of a wider technical assistance program (Annex 14),
implemented by the Central Planning Office, that would (a) review the Govern-
ment's emerging development strategy (as set out in a white paper on the
nation's development), (b) formulate workable national development programs
(para 2.11), and (c) propose reorganization or modifications to services in
support of these development programs. Rural development is likely to be the
main emphasis of the White Paper. The proposed preinvestment study of rural
development and training would therefore form an essential element of the
technical assistance program. The proposed project would finance three man-
years of expert services by a rural development economist and an educator.
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that terms of re-
ference would be acceptable to the Association.
4.17      Policy and Planning Division, DOE (Estimated cost US$0.14 million).
The objectives of this project item, which includes 2-1/2 man-years of tech-
nical assistance, are to help (a) introduce a more coherent system of physical
facility planning in PNG (para 3.03), and (b) undertake a mid-term review of
the 1975-80 Education Plan. Expert assistance would focus on planning proce-
dures at provincial level where more active and systematic approaches are



- 19 -
needed including primary school mapping. The assistance would help establish
national planning norms, carry through a training program for provincial
officers in, and supervise the introduction of, rational planning procedures
in the provinces. Expert assistance would also help assess policy decisions
and progress made within the Education sector since 1975. This assistance
should contribute to the preparation of the next education plan and help
identify priority areas for future investments. It should be coordinated
with the Integrated Rural Development Study.
4.18      Natianal training Counrcil (Estimated c-ost US_Q.i1 million).
The Government is planning to enact a new Industrial Training Act in order
to (a) rationalize existing training programs (para 3.19), (b) create incen-
tives to employers to increase their involvement in the apprenticeship scheme,
and (c) deal efficiently with future training needs. This Act will: (i) re-
place the three existing pieces of legislation dealing with training, (ii) set
up a National Training Council, and (iii) establish a system of levys and
grants which would distribute the cost of training more equitably among em-
ployers. To assist the Government in achieving these objectives, the project
would finance 2 man-years of technical assistance for an Industrial Training
Adviser. During negotiations the Government provided assurances that it
would consult with the Assocciation on the implementation of the findings.



- 20 -
V. PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
Cost Estimates
5.01      The estimated costs and foreign exchange components of the proposed
project are given in Annexes 11 and 12 and summarized below:
Kina (thousand)          US$ (thousand)
Department of Primary Industry        Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Agricultural Training (1)               365      230      595      455      290    745
Department of Public Health:
Paramedical Training (1)                320      270      590      400      340    740
Technical Assistance                     20      165      185       25      205    230
Sub-Total                          340      435      775     425      545    970
Department of Education:
Rural Vocational Centers (5)             55       55      110       70       70    140
Primary Teacher Training (1)            245      260      505      305      325    630
Secondary Teacher Training(1)           450      475      925      565      595  1,160
Technician Training (1)                 410      440      850      510      550  1,060
Technical Assistance                     60      535      595       75      665    740
.Sub-Total                       1,220   1,765   2,985   1,525   2,205  3,730
Central Planning Office:
Technical Assistance                     10      120      130       15      150    165
Department of Labor and Industry:
Technical Assistance                     10       80       90       10      100    110
Base Cost                        1,945   2,630   4,575   2,430   3,290  5,720
Contingencies
Physical                             105      140      245      135     170    305
Price Increases                      495      595   1,090       615     745  1,360
Sub-Total                          600      735   1,335      750      915  1,665
Project Cost                     2,545   3,365   5,910   3,180   4,205  7,385
5.02       Base cost estimates refer to mid-1976 prices.  Construction costs
have been estimated on the basis of functional and economical sketch plans
as reviewed and revised during appraisal. The average building unit costs,
derived from recent cost of similar institutions in PNG, vary from US$175/m2
for classrooms to US$250/m2 for laboratory buildings. Even though local
materials (e.g., timber) are used to the extent possible, construction costs
in PNG are higher than in other countries in the region. This is due largely
to high cost of imported materials (about 60% of building materials are



- 21 -
imported) and labor. Comparisons of capital costs per place are not applic-
able since all project components provide extension to existing facilities.
5.03      Utilization factors for classrooms, workshops and laboratories of
the project institutions are economical and range from 70% to 90% based on
35-45 weekly teaching periods. Estimates of equipment costs are based on
preliminary lists as reviewed during appraisal. These estimates, which take
account of existing equipment, are reasonable.  Technical assistance costs
have been estimated on the basis of US$55,000 per man year, all inclusive,
for expert services and US$12,000 for fellowships. Ah-ut L71of the total
project costs would be allocated for staff housing and about 15% for hostel
facilities. These facilities are needed to ensure recruitment and retention
of qualified staff, and minimize the cost of increasing enrollment.
5.04      Physical contingencies (Annex 13) add 10% for unforeseen factors
to the cost of site development and 5% to construction, furniture, equipment
and professional and specialists services. A total price contingency of
US$1.36 1/ million is included for expected price escalation at the following
annual rates:
1976    1977    1978    1979
1. Civil works, furniture,
professional services         13%     12%      12%      12%
2.  Equipment                       9%       8%      8%       8%
3.  Expert services                 7%       6%      5%       5%
5.05      Based on detailed analysis during appraisal, the foreign exchange
component has been estimated as follows: (a) site work and professional ser-
vices, 30%; (b) construction and furniture, 40%; and (c) equipment and spe-
cialists services, 90%. These percentages have been derived by (i) determining
the costs of civil works and furniture attributable to material, labor, over-
head and profit, and (ii) analyzing the costs of imported equipment inland
transportation and insurances and installation for equipment. Including con-
tingencies, the foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$4.2 mil-
lion, or about 57% of the total project cost.
Financial Plan
5.06      The proposed IDA credit, as requested by the Government, would
finance the foreign exchange costs of the project as follows:
1/   The 23% price contingency provided for this project is lower than for
other similar Bank education projects because the project is in advanced
stage of implementation (architectural designs have been completed) and
physical facilities are expected to be finished in about two years from
credit signing.



- 22 -
US$ M4illion              % IDA
Government   IDA    Total       Financing
A.  Department of Primary Industry    0,'16       0.29   0.75          39
B.  Department of Public Health         0.43      0.54   0.97          56
C.  Department of Education             1.52     2.21   3.73           59
D.  Central Planning Office             0.02      0.15   0.17          90
E.  Department of Labor                 0.01     0.10   0.11           90
F.  Contingencies                       0.95     0.71   1.66           -
Net total               3.39      4.00   7.39          54
Less duties and taxes  0.19          -   0.19
Total                   3.20      4 .00   7.20         56
5.07      The annual recurrent expenditures for training generated by this
project would amount to K 1.0 million for the DOE, K 0.3 million for DOPI and
K 0.1 million for the DOPH (in 1975 prices). These figures represent 2.4% of
the DOE, 1.6% of the DOPI and 0.3% of the DOPH recurrent budget in 1975.
These additional expenditures, which do not include possible savings for
localisation of training staff, could be accommodated without undue finan-
cial difficulty to the Government within the anticipated growth of the educ-
ation budget. However, the annual recurrent expenditures in salaries required
to employ the graduates of project institutions would be substantial. The
qualified agricultural extension agent draws a salary which is 30% higher than
that of the untrained person he replaces (para 2.04).  This, together with the
growth of the extension service with the population, would raise the cost for
agricultural extension staff from about K 4.8 million in 1975 to about K 7.1
million in 1985 (in 1975 prices). This corresponds to an increase of expendi-
tures for extension services of 5% p.a. which is a high but not unrealistic
rate of growth (para 2.02). Further, the employment of the expanded output
from Madang College of Allied Health Sciences can be assured only if a minimum
of 8% of Government budget will be allocated to health expenditures (para
2.07), which seems feasible. The DOE expenditures would be lower than those
projected in the 1975 Education Plan (Annex 10), due to lower than expected
rate of primary school growth (para 3.05) and increased localisation in the
secondary schools (para 6.01).
Project Implementation
5.08      Project Management.  The implementation of the project would need
to be coordinated centrally because of the number of Government Departments
involved. A Project Management Committee would be established to oversee and
guide the implementation of the project. It would include the Secretaries for
Education (Chairman), Finance, Transport Works and Supply, Primary Industry,
and Health, the Vice-Chancellor of the UPNG and other officers as required.
The Office of Project Coordination (OPC), headed by a Coordinator, already
established in the Department of Finance for implementation of externally
financed projects, would be responsible also for the implementation of the
proposed project. The Office has been strengthened to supervise the pre-
paration of the tender documents for civil works and equipment, master
lists for equipment and furniture, execution of construction and procurement



- 23 -
and installation of equipment. A full-time Education Project Manager (assist-
ant to coordinator), responsible specifically for the implementation of the
proposed project, has been appointed. Further, a senior architect for super-
vision of civil works, a procurement officer for the unit and coordinators in
DOPI, DOPH, DOE, UPNG, CPO and DOLI have been designated. During negotiations
the Government gave assurances that it would maintain these posts as required
for successful implementation of the project.
5.09      Design, tendering and supervision of civil works for all project
items, except Goroka Teachers College, would be the responsibility of the
Department of Transport Works and Supply (DTWS). The University of Papua New
Guinea's construction unit would be responsible for the execution of the
Goroka Teachers College component.
5.10      Professional Services.  The Architectural Division, DTWS, has pre-
pared standard designs and architectural drawings for all project institutions
except for Goroka College. Due to the workload of the engineering division of
DTWS, the Government may use consultant firms to prepare detailed engineering
drawings and specifications for the structural, electrical and mechanical
works of the proposed project. The services of qualified consultant firms
are available in Papua New Guinea.
5.11       Sites.  Suitable sites are available for all project institutions.
However, land transfers will have to be effected for staff houses of the
College of Allied Health Sciences at Madang. During negotiations the Govern-
ment gave assurances that title to every site will be acquired prior to
scheduled start of construction.
5.12      Procurement.  Contracts for civil works and furniture would, except
as provided below, be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertized
locally following procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
Foreign, and locally established foreign firms, would be allowed to participate.
Local bidding procedures are justified because the contracts are small (mostly
below US$600,000), and the location of the proposed project institutions
dispersed. Further, to expedite implementation and economize on costs (a)
civil works contracts costing less than US$65,000 in each contract not ex-
ceeding the aggregate amount of US$275,000 equivalent, may be awarded on the
basis of negotiated contracts in accordance with local procedures acceptable
to the Association; and (b) construction works not exceeding the aggregate
amount of US$250,000 equivalent, may be carried out by force account of the
Borrowers Department of Transport, Works and Supply. Prior Association ap-
proval would be required for any civil works contracts exceeding US$200,000
equivalent.  Construction of some project institutions started prior to
netotiations, but in accordance with Bank Group procedures. Retroactive
financing is therefore recommended up to US$200,000. The Government has given
assurances that it would waive existing preference given to indigenous contrac-
tors in bidding, evaluation and award of civil works contracts under the
proposed project.
5.13       Equipment contracts over US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group



- 24 -
guidelines. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of
15% or the existing customs duty, whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f.
price of competing imports. Direct government imports are exempt from customs
duties and taxes. Equipment and furniture purchases which cannot reasonably
be grouped to form contracts for at least US$50,000 equivalent could be
awarded without prior Association approval on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally following government procedures which are satisfactory to
the Association.  Books (total estimated cost 'SS150,000) would be purchased
directly from authorized distributors. In addition, off-the-shelf items, not
exceeding US$10,000 in each contract and aggregating a maximum of US$100,GO0
equivalent, could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three price
quotations.
5.14      Technical Assistance.  The proposed project includes financing for
21-1/2 man-years of specialist services and 9-1/2 man-years of fellowships
for staff and curriculum development, experiments and studies for which other
resources seem unavailable (Annex 14). During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that selection criteria and procedures for awards of fellow-
ships, general programs of study, terms of reference and appointment of
specialists and terms of reference for the proposed study (para 4.16) would
be acceptable to the Association.
5.15      Implementation Period.  The project is in an advanced implementation
stage.  Detailed sketch plans and tender documents were reviewed and revised
during appraisal. Contract documents for most project items have been pre-
pared and will be completed for all project components by November 1976. A
civil works contract has been awarded for the first phase of construction at
Goroka College. Tenders have been closed for about 50% of the construction
for the Highlands Agriculture Training Institute. Physical facilities should
be completed in about 24 months after Credit signing and technical assistance
in four years (Charts 3 and 4).
5.16      Disbursement.  The proposed credit of US$4.0 million would finance
54% of total project costs and would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  100% of the c.i.f. costs of directly imported equipment;
(b)  100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment;
(c)  70% of the cost of the imported and locally pronvrcLdequipmenrt
(d)  40% of the expenditures on civil works, professional services,
and furniture; and
(e)  100% of the cost of technical assistance.
To the extent practicable withdrawal applications would be aggregated in
groups of US$50,000 or more prior to submission to the Association for reim-
bursement out of the proceeds of the proposed credit. It is recommended that
the Association finance retroactively 40% of the total cost of civil works
contracts and professional services incurred from May 1, 1976 to the date of
signing of the Credit Agreement, subject to a maximum of US$200,000 equivalent
(para 5.12).  The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 15.   Un-
disbursed funds would be used for other project related components. Disburse-
ment is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.



- 25 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.01      Rural improvement, localization of staff and economy of training
form the central objectives of the project. The contribution of the project
to the attainment of these objectives can be quantified as follows:
(a)  Expansion of Highlands Agricultural Training Institute would enable
the Government to upgrade the quality of its agricultural extension
service, increasing the proportion of properly trained extension
agents from 20% to 50% in 1985 (Annex 7). The level of staffing
would be maintained at one agent per 135 farm families. Due to
economies of scale the recurrent cost per student at HATI would fall
by nearly 50% from K 5,900 to K 3,100 per annum (in 1976 prices).
(b) Expansion of Madang College of Allied Health Sciences would enable
the Government to meet by 1986 the full demand for Health Inspectors
and two-thirds of the requirement for Health Extension Officers
(Annex 8), thus improving health services in rural areas. Due to
economies of scale, the recurrent cost per student would be reduced
by about 23% from K 3,250 to K 2,500 per annum.
(c) Expansion of Goroka Teachers College would enable the Government to
replace about 1,000 expatriate secondary level teachers with locally
trained indigenous teachers before 1986. The expansion would even-
tually save about 1,800 man-years of expatriate services and the
equivalent salary costs of about K 14 million (see Annex 6 page 3)
or twelve times the capital investment of K 1.2 million. Due to
the economies of scale and improved course organization, the student/
teacher ratio can be increased from 11 to 15.
(d) Expansion of Lae Technical College would increase the stock of local
middle level technicians from about 300 in 1975 to 1,800 in 1985.
This would substantially reduce the reliance on expatriate tech-
nicians (Annex 9).
6.02      The remaining project components in broad terms would serve the same
objectives, but the expected benefits can be less readily quantified. Expansion
of Madang Teachers College would increase the supply of teachers to the least
developed areas of the country and technical assistance to the Department of
Education would help improve the distribution of school facilities. The pre-
investment study on Integrated Rural Development and Community-Based Training
would assist in formulating national development policy and propose how Gov-
ernment services and rural training could be coordinated and developed to
support this program. The Rural Vocational Center component would coordinate
the efforts of several agencies in order to bring in adults to short courses
at five experimental centers. Finally, technical assistance to the Department
of Labour and Industries would help rationalize and economize the complex
system of technical training.



- 26 -
6.03      Female education would specifically be promoted by two project com-
ponents. Two thirds of the expansion of Madang Teachers College would be
employed for female trainees, and the Government would revise its selection
procedures to increase the number of female trainees also in other Colleges.
Finally the Highland Agricultural Training Institute would begin to train
female extension agents, important because farming is traditionally done by
women.
6.04      Risks involved are primarily of financial and administrative nature.
Of immediate concern is a budget crisis which emerged after November 1975 and
forced the Government to freeze 1976 recurrent funds at the 1975 level (from
which salary increases of about 10% also had to be met). The long term costs
for salaries of graduates from expanded institutions are also significant
(para 5.07). Finally, the secondary teacher training component is designed
for a rapid localization of staff and, in consequence, training capacity would
be developed in excess of needs for normal growth and wastage (para 4.11).
There is a risk that the excess secondary teacher training capacity available
after 1985 may not be diverted to other uses as planned, but used as an
argument for expanding secondary education beyond present plans. However, the
project addresses priority issues within the Eight Point Plan (para 2.11) and
the Government is well aware of the risks and constraints associated with the
proposed project. During negotiation assurances were provided that adequate
recurrent funds would be provided. Moreover, the additional training costs
and. costs of employing the graduates would be partially offset by savings from
the localization program. In sum, the potential benefits outweigh strongly
the possible risks.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      During negotiations the Government provided assurances on the
following topics:
(a)  establishment of a project monitoring system (para
4.03), reorganization of agricultural training programs
(para 4.05), staff increases at the Madang College of
Allied Health Sciences (para 4.07), procedures for
recruitment and upgrading of primary teachers (paras
4.10 and 4.12), and coordination of non-formal industrial
training (para 4.18); and
(b)  appointment of project manager (para 5.08), site
acquisition (para 5.11) and fellowship and specialist
review procedures (para 5.14).
7.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$4.0 million equivalent to the Government of Papua New Guinea on standard
IDA terms.



CUAP&N AI I WL LOUCAT i ',H  I A I.) iC AI OR S                                                    AHNEX  I
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GNP/         G0      :Z  TuTkL         OF PUSLIC                                           PHI.  iAV.PRI.   s                    t            SEC
:CAPIFAI OV6TEO;FIU8LIC              EUUCATIGN         :LITER-        PHI . :CJMPLE,  'STU- --S(H.TEACH:PROGRESS-:  SEC.   STU-
:   AT   -  TJ LOU.:   EXt, .         RECURI,tT         :ACY         ENR0LL:Tf0\            -DENTS!SAiARY  IN:ION  RAT-  :04ROLL-' CENTS:HjG,Ejj
:MARKET:  (eUoLIC.1DEVJrEJ:EXP  ALLUCATEi:   RATE   R A T I o  :6ATZ FOR,.PCR    :RELATION  :FRO14 PRI.IRATIO  : PER   : EN R,LL t
sPOP.  :PRI CLS.  EX?.                Tu      ;        T u :       ;(%  OF        -NET   :FRI.SCH.:TEACH: fO  GNP/   TO  SEC.                     NET   :TEACH-  RATIJ:
YA9( COO)    (USS)l 041. I                E t)U .  :PRI. SEC. HI.;AOULTS):  CZ)    CYCLE(%):ER                        ckpltA                         (Z)   :ER
(1)        C 2        1 3          C 4)            t 5             C 6         C 7         C 8         (9         t 10          C I I I        I 2      C 1 3    C 1 4
------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- ------------- -------- ------------------------ --- ----------
ADVANCED
; ' S_ -i R' 'I -A  1 3    7. 5   3, 510          4. 3      9 . 9      41Q   25Q   ZCQ    9 9            9d          9 3         26          2.0           9 9         5 t        1 9       6.00
C A N ALI A         1 2   22.ID  5, 4 500          7.T      1 9 . 4     30     38      1 9      98        8 9         98          24           2.0          99          62         1 r        9 . 00
GEHmA 4Y F  RE P. I Z   6 1 .00  5.32JD           4 .2      14.2        ...   74*- 26           99        91          99          33         . . .          99          9t         22       11.0acy
JAPAN               7 I  I 03 . 30  3. b 300      4.3      2 0 .7       39    38      1 2       99        99D         99C         z5C         Z.0           99C         940        zac    2d. LICJ
NrltiERLANDS    7 2   13.4D 4,330D                6 .5     1 9 . I     3?    45       1 9      99         95          95          29          3. 0          9 7         73         20       11.a
IN--A ZrALANO       13    2 .9   3.6 a 0          5. 2     . . .       39    ? 4      29       99         99          99          26         . . .          99          67'        19       2 4. 3 0
NOR44Y              12      3 . 90  4 6 6 0 0     7.0      1 5 .2      58    2 3      1 3      99         99          98          20          1. 9          99          76         t4       I 1. 00
SA! EJE'4           f 3    a . 1   5. 9 10        d.9       16 .0      36    14       1 3       99        99          99          17                        90          85         10       30. la
U.K.                rZ   55 .00  3. 0 6 00        6.3      12 . 1      26      39     22       98         99                      26          2. 0                      63         ir       I 1. 00
U.S A.              12  2 10.40 6.200D            6.0      1 5 .16            7 3 -   21       99         99          99          25U         2. 0          . . .       93         19U    2 9. 00
EU3 J P
GRELCr              tl    8 .9 j  1,8700          2 .2     I I . I     54Y   29Y   t 4Y        82-k       95Y         . . .       32Y        . . .          TO&         58Y        43Y      1I.Cc
IR EL AIL)          1 2     3.OD 2.150D           5.1      13.9D       43Y   4 1 Y   1 4Y      98         97          99A         35         ...            95A         75         19        T-CA
PORTUGAL            72      9 . 0)  1, 4 100      ...      ....        . . .    . . .    . . .    . . .   91 XY                                                         65XY       ...       7.60Y
SPAiN               7 1   3 4 .70  1 .7 1 00      2.43   15 .2A        49Y   22Y   ISY    94A             91A                                                           29A        30        6. 3 0 A
AFRICk
I-GE'll             75   15 .7        776         7.5                  4IG   32G   18G    30              76          62E         42E         6.OG          49E         17         25        4.CO
BENIN               7 3    2 .9       1 10        5. 3    32 . 0       47    23       1 c      11         32XB        70 8        50B       25.08           4 38         Td        398       0. 44ty
BOT3w4NA            7 4    0  1       3 00        5.0      20 - 0      38    2 0      1 5      25         7ox         75          35          5.0           24          13X        18        0.30Y
BURJNBI             1 4     3 5         92        Z.5      19.9Q    47R   4IR   12R            1 0        2ox         30?         38         1 0.0          1 4          2 X       18        L.0
CAMER30N            1 3    6.2        250         5.9      20 .0       3BY   29Y   ITY         . . .      74           . .        51 BY                                   9        23CY    0  90cl
C. A. R.            7 0    1 . 7 0    160D        *.ON   20.0          56    1 9    . . .      ...        64CY        2 5         65CY                                   5cy       27BY    0:01T
CHAO                7 5    4.OD         BOD       3.0      10 .0       78    2 2        0      1 5        29X3Y       30          65ey       1 5             8            2XBY   30           O.oliy
CONGO( 8)           7 4     1 .3      450         6.0      1 9 . 3     4 0    32      2 1      50?      133X          63          63         6              48          33X        22        3.4X
EGYPT               7 4   36 - 4      280         5.3        . . .     29    36    2 4    4 0             TOX         45          40                        64          39X        28        llx
ETri I OPI A        7 3   26 . 5        90        3.1    2 0.0         4 2    29      1 a        7        17C         4 2         50          3. 0          63           2         30        ol 20
GAJJN               7 3    0.5   1, 3 1 0         5. a    2 0.6        25       9    1 1                1 84 X.3Y    25C          46C         5. 0          ISA         2DC        21C       1. 4 icy
GHA 4A              11    9 .3 a    3000          4. 7    24. 439   38 0   1550   2 3 0                   56XCY    62             30CY       . . .          1 4         iix        16C v    0. 743Y
IVJRY CGkST    T2           5 .80    380D         6.3      24 . 7      273Y 339Y I 3Y            9A       52          57A         46         . . :                      10         25        1 Biv
KZ-NYA              73   12 .4        1 To        6.4    ZT.O          63    11    11          40       1 05X         ...         40           e                        12         23         1:.3ay
LESOTHO             75      1.2       11ON       12.OP   2 3. 0        49    la       20       40         85          50          52          ?.ON          8 1         10         26        1 . 0
LIBERIk             7 4    1 .40,   310D          2.7      1 3.9       25    1 3    2 2         . . .     59          ...         39          1. a                      20         20        1.104Y
MADAG45CAR          7 4     8 . 6     150D        3.2    22 .1         5 1    2 4     2 5      4 0        68X         3 0         63         1 5. 0         4 8           9x       26        1 _:ox
MALAWI              7 4     4.8D    110D          3 .1    2 0 . 9      . . .   . . .   . . .    25        56X         6 0         50          7.0           40           4X        20        0.26CY
NAL 1               74      5.3D        ?OD       4.6N   32 . 3        36 8   5 2 0   1 29    1 0         18          22          40         1 4. 0         37           4         17        0. 16ky
MAL)RITANIA         7 0     1 .20    2000         4.5    21 . 0         . . .    . . .    . . .  10       isx         - - -       22           ...                        3        24
OIAJRIT IUS         72      0.80    4 10 0        3.7      11.7D       71    1 C        4       80        e6          99          31                                    31         30         i::7CY
NORJCCU             14   15 . 9       320         5.OC   1 6 . 5       44    41         9       267       54X         21          37                                    13X        2t         2.C
NIGERIA             I 1   7 1 .20     2 10 0       3.2N   ...          40A   24A   20A          ---       39XCY    ...            34CY        . . .         . . .         A        20CY       0. 37CY
RWAA,Dk             73      3 .9 0      701)      3.2C   28.03         . . .    . . .    . . .    23      52          . . .       51                                      2        13        0. 23CY
SENEGA L            71      4 . 00    280D         4.ON   22 . 53       38A   4A       54      10        36X         . . .       46                        . . .       iix        25         L. TI.1Y
SlEjiRA  LEONE   73         2.7        1 60       3.4      2 3 . 4      31    36    30          15?       34X         45          32           4 OE         68           13X       21         O.113iT
SIiALI A           7 3    3 .0         so        ...        7 . 0     57      1 6    1 3        5        1 3         91          35         1 5 . 0        45            3        18         1. 0
SUDAN               72   17 . 03       1 3 00     4 .5     1 3 .2      43    2 9    28          15        36          75          45           4. 0         25           ti        20         1.?3y
SWALILAN)           7 5     0 . 5     4 40         4. 5     18 .0      37      31    1 3        50        70          50          38           3. 0         84           19        22         2. 0
TAAZA 41 A          7 4   13.2C    I I OC         5.IN   17.0          36    . . .   1 2       63         44X         . . .       49                          7           2        21C        0. 3
TU'lils I A         7 3    5.4D    460D           6 .3    2 3 . 4       37    43      1 8      55         72          2 1         41           6.           3 1          14        21         3. 
UGA.,DA             70   10.8a    1 50 0           5. 2N   t7 . bC R   40Q   22Q   2 5 .1    25A          48XCY       . . .        36          ...          14A           4xcy   21           0. 583 T
UPPtR  VOLTA        7 2     5 . 13      7 00       4.0    23 . 9        65    1 0       6        5        1 0         ...         45         16.0           2 0           2        2 3        O.Gliv
ZAIRE               7 3   23 .4        140         5.2CN 21.3C    54C   IIC   29C               1 5       6 3          3 8        44A          6 . 0        4 3           8        24         0.9say
ZA43IA              7 4    4 . 7       4 8 2       5 .3     14 .2       34    1 8      1 6      4 3       88          a 0         47              9         2 0          1 3       22         1. 00
CENTRAL AMERICA  AND  THE  CARI138iAk
---------------------------------
COTA  RICA         71    1.80    IIOD             5. 2    22 . 7       57    2 ',     1 2      8 9       86cy        6 5          29          3. 0         58           22cy      25       1 2. L LCY
004LNICAN REP. 7 2          4 .40    5?OD          2.5     15.5oR   4 2    2 4         2 2      5 1       80           1 1        54           3. OD        6 3          1 3       24         1 .  3
L,  SALVA)OR        1 5     3 .70      350D        3.6    23.o          6 1     5     22        5SAY      71xcy    ...             39cy                                  16XCY   21CY    4: 3581
GUAFF.14ALA          1 3    5 . 1      5 0 0       1.9      16.u        55    2 3      1 4      4 7       64           26          35          3:                         8        25         4  09F
HAITI               re      4 .4D    I 30D         0.9       6.bo    11 I    I 1        8       203       ?2          25?          45          5. 0         50            3        23         L.C"?
HG,4jUqAS           72    2 .70  - 3 20 0          3 .9    2; .50      64    1 I      I a       52        81X         18           3t          6. 0         7 5          14X        14        S.(10
JAqAIA             re      1 .9 0    9 9ou        E. 5y   19 .7        33Y   ?2Y       7y      66       1 06X Y       . . .       52                                    32 X Y     1 9       4  79Y
4EKICI)             TO   56  OJ    6 900           2 . 6     9 . s      54    2 4      1 2      76         7 I         .1 1        4 F,       3,:                        19        23         6: 3eCY
NICARAGUA           14    2.00    5 4 0 0         2.5       i4.e        bi     1 3    1 3       57        65          2 1          3r          2.0          93           17        24         7 . G
IRI'410AD &  r. 7 1    1 . 00  1, 310i)           5.1       18.       53    ? I    1 2         90        93X         Iir         35           4. 0         1 5         49         25         2. 56A T
SDJTH AMERICA
-------------
ti R A I I L        7 4  101 . I 0    7 6 0 0      4 .3     12.0c       4 ?    2 C      3 7    79         8ox          . . .       27cy        ...                       I 8H       15CY    G. 08
CHILE               le   10.2i    1 200            4.GY   I 0 . t)Y     34JY  159Y  CO JY   . . .        I 1 1 X 0 Y    . . .      3ray        . : ;                     413 X 0 Y
CULUN31A            I 0   ".5i         4 401)      4 .0     La.y        s 5    1 6     2 0      r 3       6 1          2 0          6          4                         I I
ECUAOOR             r z    6.ro        3100        3.r    2 F . ?C      450T 4ray 1 OQY   69               ?2                      36                                    ta         14        4  9rof
GUYANA              r4    O.r          4100        5.8m   t4.10         4r     35      14       8JA       92K          59          33                                    62X       24         1: 00
PAqi,GUAY           f4    Z.4c         3 f 4       1.6      1 3. q )    55    13    ?z          SI         82          26          31)         1 . 9         65          I?         12        5  D
PF R J               I 1   14.5u    620D           4.5      d4 . I)     50    1! z     1 5      ), z      8 u          3 8         390Y        3.0          r 0          3 a        230Y   1 2  00
VLNELqELt           r 3   1 1 . 2   I , 6 10       4.6      1 9 .9      30 3  2 E 9   35    FIA          6 I         . . .        3 3         2. 4                      3 3                 I ?  6 3cy



CU MPA PiAlI AL LOUC ATI ION  LNOI EAI4OJS  tC500Y)                                ANNEX I  PAGE 2'
(SEPI-E!qBER lb. 697AI
a  aGNP/    T GNCP   :1 TUlALl %OF PUALIC I                                       PR!.  :AV.PRI.  a              aSE5C   2
:CkP ITAS  TEYL.TED:PUBLIC  aEDUCATION    :.I TER-    PRI. :'CUMPLE- ,STU- :SCH.OEACHZPROGRE~S-z SEC. 2STU- 
I           AT  : Y  LOU.:  EAP.    AECURHENIT           ACY    S'ENRULL:TION         :)ENTS:SALARY lN:ION RAT-- :ENRCLL:0ENIS.:HIGHERt
%       :MARKTETS  (PUbLIC.DE VUtED:EXP AkLLOCATED:   RATE  41,10TI  :ATE FORZPER   :RELATION aPRON  PRI.:RATIO sePER      E NVOLL I 
POP. zPRI CES : EA?.    aT U               TO:        :(% OF  .: NF E    PRl.SCH-.SYE4CH! TO GNP/ -TO SEC.             NET  S TEACH- HATi.3
YAz(OOO)    (US$): ONLI    a  EDO. :PRI. SEC. Hi. :AOULTS): (Z)  :-CYCLE(2):ER      CAPITA                       I1         (11   :ER        (I)
5():   2)     (5                                     6 4      5   IA  (7 I  (8)   (9       (10)         I (1I    :1 2)    S(3 :CI
ASIA AND OCEANilA
AFWHA;ISTAN       4    1 6. 3    90?      ..39P  23P  I 6P    10                        26x       24        41         5. 0       78*        53x    21        13
BANLAISHt    7 3  7 4.0          RI       1.2    2 0.2......  .    . .         23       561       . ..      48        I* 133                         28
CA1INRI TAI WAN) 7 3  15 .4.    660       1. 3         4 .0  28    41    22    82       98        94        40       14.Z8                  55       26      15.00
INDIA            7 1 id1.90    1 2 00     2.6VY      .     ...  . .. .  . .. 29         79X       ...       43A        .          . ..      28X      20AY    4.OOAT
1A0JNE SiA       I3 124. 40    1 300      0.8    1 1.0     6 3   2 3    IA4    62       6 3       .40       32         5. 0       9 1       12       t6       2. 00
IRAN             1 3  32 .1     Or0       3.3    12 .6     5 08  188   1 28    50       77        74A        32        5. 08      BOA       24      .32       A.32CY
IRAQ             72   10.4D   8500        6.7    16.30R  ..  . . .. . .. 26             61CY      ...       22        ..fi..                 6CY   26         6.28CY
.JOMN DA173    2 .5             3 40      1.0    83.0      52    1 5    23      5 9      913       16        38        5.00       84o50              22       4.00
XOREA           713  32 .9      400       2 .9    1 9 .3   64   ? 6      a     92       97        90         53        3.00       7 1       51       39       6. 00
L E QA NN        7 2    2.90    9100      3 .5    1 8.0    3 9    4 0         C  6 8    8 6       6 5        1 9       2.00       63        26U      25      2 3. 00
MALAYSIA         7 4  11.1     670        6.4   ?22.70    44    31    1 1      60C      96X       90        32         4. 00      8 3       44X      27       3. 00
OMAN             72    0.60    840D       2.3     3 .8     96      -            20      24X       99        33         7. 00      . ..      0. AX     9
PAKISTAN         15   66.20    1200       1.6        6 .2  45   25    18a     21        413       50         39        2.00       . ..      17X      18       6.0
PAPUA N.G.       7 5    2 .6    4 10      3.6    16 .1     38    1 6   2 4      32      5 7       73X       31         It         3 3       12X      24       0.93
PHIILIPPINES   714  40.2D   2300          2 .5    14 .9    7 3    1 5    1 2   8 7     1041       . ..      34         15         . ..      46X      ...    21. 00
Si N"PAURE'      72    2.20 1,6300        3.1N   1 &.2     44    31    15      75A    1070        12        33                    99        47       24       S. 25Y
THAILAND         73  39 .4      270       3.ON   18.7      65      9    1 5    82       87X       93C       32         3.OOU      91C       21X      24       2.00
TURKEY           72  37.-90    600D       ...    I3.ODR   .......       ..  .    .     1053CY    . ..       34OY       . ..       . ..      22X3    2703    5. 3133
YEMEN            I S   6 .3     1 00      0.5     4.0      ASP  21P  23P   I10          151       18        36         5.00       75         23      19       0. 053 Y
YEMEN P.).R.   72    1 .50    1100        2.3A  0 2 .6     79    12            10       70X       31        29       10.00        99        123      20       0. 0843
SUMMtARY   Oat DE,VELOPI NG COUNTRIES :           -
NOMBYR OF COUNTRIES!                      70     6 9      65   63    62       64       74        46        73           44       47        74       71        70
RANGE:                               t0.5-  C 3. 8-  (25- (0-  (0-    (5-           (10-      C17       (19 -       (1.8-    (7 -           .4-   ( 9-    (.01-
IS.OP)  3 2.32   96 ) 52 )  40)    981         1843)    99 1       66 2        25.0)    9 9)       75.0)   43)       23.01
OUARTILES:UPPER                        4.7    21.0       57    36    20      68       91        76        45           7        76        26       26       4. 79
MEDIAN.                    4 .0    18.2     50   ?7    1 5       50      71         56        38          4        63         16      23       2. 00
LOWER a3.0    14 .0                          42   11    11       20       46        25        33           3       25          a       19      0. 53
SYMBOLS: . .. DATUM UNAVAILABLE   .              4=970 CR BEFOFE               M=CUR9RENT PRICES                           SOuRCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NiiGLIGiBLE 3=1971                              N=GIP-------
7  QUESTIONABLE                       C=1972                        P=INCLUOING FCREIGN NrD                       COLUNNS:I  AND 2 WORLD BANK
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUItNTS 0=19r3                               Q=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                              ATLAS
C. OMBINED WITH PRIMAAiY             E.1974                        R=HINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                      3 TO 14 IBRO MISSIONS
F=1975                        S=MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                       AND/OR UNESCO
0=1916                        T=EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                         ST&TESItCAL
U=PUSLIC ONLY                                                    YE#,RBOOK
V=INCLJDING. FFIVATE EXPENDITURE
X=INCLUOING CVEFAGEC STUDENTS
Y=UNESCI SOURCES
--   - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - - -  -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  --  - -                                                                                                                                          
CDMPAIATIVE EDJCATION DATA ARE USZFj.L IN  THL EVALUATlaN  OF VARIOUS EDUCATIOUN SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EIUCATIONAL
OLYEL9PKENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRILS. HOWEVER.IN THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT L,ATA,CRUSS.NATIChAL COJMPARISON SHUULD BE APPROACHED AITH
GREAT CAJTIO4. DATA PRESENTED IA TVL ABOVE TARLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTEI  LAROL_LY TY THE 8BINK MI SSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
VENA14DER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES ~R 09FA FROK UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO 51ANOARDIZE DEFIN4ITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELLSS,Z~UCH SATA  *A.  STILL  IMPERFECT  IN SEVERAL RESFECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TG IMPROVE THEM
PVROGRESSIVFELT ON THE OCCASION uF IT-, OPERATIONAL WORK.  IN THE USE OF THESE OATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MINO:
(1)"CDUCAFION' AS DEFINdED IN4 TAsL TABLE IN1CLUDES ~ALL EIUCATIONi AND TA41INIG, F09RMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
()')PRIMARY EOUCATIiTi REFERS 11 EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONLiARY EOUCATIjN REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS IF TYPL Y2.-. GEMERAL, TECAHNICAL, ARGICULTURACL) 
ETS)"LITEHACY RATES'(COL.6) ARE ..fTEN OSTAYFL'O FREM COUNTi'Y CE_NSUSES. IN PIANYC0J34T IES TPEY ARE ONLY APPVOXIlMATIONS ANDo IT IS
DJUBTFUL  THAT ANY UNIFORM JEVINITION OF  ~LITERATE' HAS HEEN FULLO%EO CONSISTENTLY; 
(4)'PU8LIC r.XPENDIrURE IN Li,UCATION'(COLS.3,4 AND 51 kZFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION ATY
PUBLIC AND AUASI-PUBLIC AGiI.LIES;
(5)"ENRDL.LNIN AATI LL'(COL~. 7. aZ ANS  14) REFER TD SCHOCL TEAR ATC MEAN IHE PERCENTA~E CF ELIGT3LE CHILDREN ENRELLEC FULL-TIME
IN THfE APP- JU'RIATL SCHOLL, PkRL I. ANO PRIVATE RY LEVEL. THEY AOE OFTEN SUAsJECT To A kIOE tHARGIN OF ERROR IN4 THE CEV1ELOPING
COUJNTRIES UwIfNO TO VARIATIUN IN THE ACCUR1ACf OF BASITC DATA(I .E. AGE-SFECIFIc POPULATIO4 AND ENROLLMENTS). ENRLLLEuEt FIG~Uf.ES
FRAiEkWETLY ARE HIGHER TRAM ThE MUMUER OF STUIIWITS ACTUALLY IN   SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS  INOIe*TED  Vti
FJOONOTES ALSO CAN LIFLATS THE RATIO$.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Population, Literacy and Public Services by Province
Population        Literacyv/  Education-Y                 Health g    Azriculture /
Non     Literacy    Gross Enroll-        Population_19          rPpq!.tion
Indigenous  Indigenous   -te       ment ratio, 1975    Hospital            Aid Post per extension
District                1971        1971        1971    Primary  Secondary    bed      Doctor   (1973)  worker 1975
Western                 70,340        558       26.7       62      16.1        130      19,300     990       1,680
Gulf                   58,273         291      29.4        62      12.0        163     15,600   1,290        1,480
National Capital       175,515     18,322   ( 79.9         63      33          261      4,000   1,450        1,800
Central                                      ( 42.2        68      22                  2930)11                ,8
Milne Bay              108,528        932      49.9        76      17.6        245      29,300   1,110       1,480
Northern                65,918        596      46.7        60      19.3        308     18,000   1,370        1,340
S/Highlands           192,047         807       8.6        46       6.9        316     28,890   2,350        2,590
E/Highlands            236,752      2,887       16.0       36       8.1        456     19,600   2,590        2,940
Chimbu                 159,729        516       10.1       49      15.5        370     32,600   1,960        4,360
W/Highlands                         2,6         13.6    ( 46         9.0       210      11,930   1,830       3,800
Enga                  (343,272       ,7 o                                      224     41i490   2,100        4,700
Morobe                 240,930      8,103       48.8       53       14.2       232      10,770   1,040       1,990
Madang                 168,212      2,741       33.5       56       16.5       181      18,120   1,300       2,530
West Sepik              93,479        499       22.1       55       16.0       180      50,050   1,460       2,080
East Sepik             180,149      1,744       28.0       59       15.9       243      17,060   1,490       2,630
Manus                   24,356        510       58.6       60      33          356       9,120   1,300       1,070
New Ireland             58,507      1,036       57.3       82       25          94      21,490   1,050       1,830
E/New Britain          108,238      5,512       57.0      100      48          138       7,350   5,360       3,300
W/New Britain           60,783        732       47.6       73        9.6       224      70,870   1,610       1,690
Bougainville            90,383      5,981       54.9       85       21         169      13,130    1,240      1,490
TOTAL               2,435,409      54,526       32.2       57       15.9       224      13.680    1,540      2,270
Notes:  1/ Literate in English, Pidgin or Mobu (population aged 10 and over) according to the 1971 census.
2/ Services have been calculated for indigenous population only.
Sources: (a) Department of Education staff, November 1975
(b) Summary of Statistics 1972/73, Bureau of Statistics, Port Moresby.
(c)  Annual Report of 1973/74 of Department of Public Health.
(d)  Department of Education statistics, 1975.
January 1976



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Demand and Supply Projections for the Monetary Sector Workforce
(Tnousands)
Monetary Sector:                                                                       Public Sector (for comparison):
Actual Stock    Required Stock               Desired Localization 1985                 Actual Localization 1974
Manpower                                                               Non-         Degree of                 Non-      Degree of
Class        1971        1975       1980    1985      Nationals    Nationals    Localization  Nationals Nationals Localization
1. A          2.50         2.82      3.27    3.79        3.03          0.76            80%          0.20       2.28       8.2%
2. B          9.95         11.2      13.0    15.0        13.5          1.50            90%          3.40      3.15       52%
3. C          32.4        37.6       43.6   50.5         50.5           -             100%         15.0       3.04       83%
4. D          53.3        60o0       69.6   80.7         80.7           -             100%         15.6       0.87       95%
5. E          229          258       299      347        347            -             100%         211.       0.01      100%
6. TOTAL      328          370       429      497        495           2.26            99.5%       55.3        9.35      85%
Monetary Sector:
Actual Stock 1971             Project Requirement 1972-85                                 Supply       Balance 1985
Manpower                   Non-    Degree Growth of   Wastage                          Total        Additional    Surplus ()
Class     Nationals   Nationals of 4oc. Stock /   (2% p.a.)    Localization   Additional            1972-85     Shortage (-)
7. A          0.10         2.40       4%     1.28        0.45           1.65           3.38            3.53         +0.15
8. B          1.72         8.23      17%      5.10       1.98           6.72           13.8            13.Q         _0.82
9. C         20.7          11.7      64%     18.1        8.88           11.7           38.7            31.5         - 7.2
10. D          45.0         8.33      8hL      27.3       18.3            8.3           54.o           (9.09)
11. E          229          0.27     100%      118        78.4           0,27            196             -
12. TOTAL      297         31.0       91%      169          lo8         28.7             309
Source:  Manpower Planning Unit, Papua New Guinea, April 1976 and TWorld Bank Staff.
j  Class A = Professionals, Class B - Technicians, Class C - Skilled Workers, Class D - Semiskilled workers,
Class E - Unskilled workers.
/ New requirements were based on a workforce growth of 3% p.a. and sectoral product figures calculated in M.L. Parker's
"An Interim Industry Study," Research School of Pacific Studies, Australian National University, Canberra.



ANNEX 
PAPUA NEW OUINEA
aolluments by Level and Type of School
1960 - 19752
Gross
Level and Type         I n r o 1 1 m e n t a                 Avemge Growth         1hrollmemt
of Schools              (hIdigenous Students)                 Rate (% pa,)        Ratio (%L
;!2o 1961    M-L0    ;2           0-65  65-70-70--75    1975 -
PrimarZ ;'/(1-6)       88.700  182,200  208.400  238,300    I         2.72   2.72    56.8
Secondary 1/(7-10)      39400   22400   38.1P                        18.8   1        16.3
High School           2,060    6,800   17,600   28,900    27    21        10.4     12.3
Technical School
and College            680      920    1,600    3,400       6.4  11.3   16.7        3.0
Vocational Center
and Skulanka           580    1,700    3,100    6,000    24    13.3   13.9        10.4
Post-Secondar-y 3!f1-12+) 250    1.020    1.950    36oo   32        13      13.0       3.42/
Senior High (11-12)   -           90       290      850       -   27      24         0.8%
Primary Teacher
Training (11-12)      250      940    1,480    2,140    30       9.5    7.7       2.0%
Secondary Teacher
Training (11-13)    -         -          190      410       -     -    17         0.3%
Technical College
(certificate)        -        _         -         210       -     -       -
Higher 4/(ii+)           -                   900    2,380       -      -    21         0.9
University of
Technology, Lae      -        -          220       880      -      -    33         O.4%
University of PNG       _                  690    1,500       -           _          0.7%
TOTAL       l2,300  1282260 ?Ai22 3iA                               LK    I
1/Including a preparatory year which 1960 accounted for 34,400 children and which
since has been phased out. Figures are approximate and do not include non
National Education System institutions with enrollments of about 23,000 (1975)
2/Other training programs with minumum entry standards below grade 10 (Police,
Nursing) enrolled 1,630 trainees in 1975.
3/Other post secondary training programs (Agriculture, Health etc.) enrolled 1,200
students in 1975.
4/Includes non-PNG students.
I/Based on the 15-16 year age group.
Y/Based on the 15 year age group.
7/Based on the 17-18 year old age group.
8/Based on the 17-21 year old age group.



PARPA NEW GUINEA
Proposed First Education Project
Projected Demand for and Sip,.y_of Primary School Teachers
(With sensitivity tests)
DEAND
_no alternative developmente of primazry school enrollments are considered (lines 13 and 15)2
A The T,antitat4ve targets of the 1975 Education Plan are achieved (95% Grade 1 enrollment 1985)
13  leopeemer+ w 4.11 bh  slower and Grade 1 enrollment will reach 85% in 198%.  (Projections as revised by the
Department of Education, April 1976)
P'Oq   v   p 40 tsr   v   o1   2 g               +o the more pozsimistic alternative (B), and the conseqLences of
a. mo-e rapid expansion (A) are analyzed in sensitivity tests (lines 13-16).
SUPPLY                                17       9              1978    1979    1980                      1983    1982    198
1. "s.ting or propesee  eapecity        2,400   2,400   2,400   2,540   2,540   2,540   2,60   2,650   2,650   2,650  2,650
2. Year 1 enrollment                    1,078     961   1,230   1,200   1,200   1,260   1,260   1,260   1,260   1,260  1,260
3. Year 2 enrollment j                    912     999     884   1,132   1,128   1,128   1,184   1,184   1,184   1,184  1,184
4. In-service places .                    175     180     195      220     210     150      210     210     210      210    210
5. Total places used                    2L165   h       2,300 23 2                      24 22.64 2.654   2.624             j5A
6. New teachers employed  /              -        857     939      631   1,064   1,060   1,050   1,113   1,113   1,113  1,113
7. Plus pre-school teachers              -         36    _        _               _        _       _ -              _      _
STOCK
8. Wastage (4% previous stock)           -        303     327      349     366     392      416     440     467      490    513
9. Conversion course                     -       -         60      60       60      60       60      60      60       60     60
10. Stock                                7,587   8,177   8,729   9,151   9s789  10,397  10,991  11,664  12,250  12,813 13,303
11. Less exceptional furlough             -        120     201       44    -       -        -       -       -        -      -
12. Teachers actually teaching           7,587   8,057   8,528   9,107   9,789  10,397  10,991  11,664  12,250  12,813 13,353
SENSITIVITY TEST
13. A  Projected primary enroIlment   (2W8300) 252200  270400  291300  313000  340500  368700  397600  429000  463500 492500
14.    Resulting pupil/teacher ratio      31.4   31.3    31.7   32.0    32.0    32.7    33.5    34.1    35.0    36.2   36.9
15. B  Projected primary enrollment    238300  254900  274500  298900  320500  347600  370500  393100  415510  437700 459700
16.    Resulting pupiLteacher ratio       31.4   31.6    32.2   32.8    32.7    33.4    33.7    33.7    33.9         34.2  34.4
lAropout rate 8% until 1977/78 and 6% thereafter.
2/Includes Vocational Center Management Course during 1976-79.
)/Wastage rate of 6% assumed between year 2 and employment.
SOURCE: 1975 Education Plan (Projection A), Department of Education Staff (Projection B and input data),
and World Bank Staff.                                                       in



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Proposed First Edui ation Project
Projected Demand for Secondary Level Teachers
1974    275_  1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
RQUIRED STOCK                    Actual Stock
' % Indig . TotaI
High Schools (PNG Curriculum)
1. Enrollment                            28,843  32,662  35,400  37,554  39,636  41,516  41,950  42,400  42,800  42,800  42,800
2. Teachers (average 1:25.6)        430   11144  1.276   1.383   1.467   1,548   1.622    .60   1,0  1      16670   1.670   1.670
Vocational Centers /
3. Enrollment                             5,455   5A50   5,450         5,450   5,450   5,450   5,450   5,450   5,450   5,450   5,450
4. Staff (1:20)                    133      306     280     280      280     280     280      280     280      280     280     280
Techmical Colleges
5. Enrolluent                             3,616   4,000   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4,500
6. Staff                             37     284     281     323      316     300      300     300     3000-0           300      300
Primary Teacher Trainingi./
7. Enrollment                             2,135   2,330   2,4)0   2,400   2,ljl0   2,570   2,660   2,660   2,660   2,660   2,660
8. Staff (1:15)                      27     166     15      160      160     161              177     177      177      7      177
National High Schoola
9. Enrolment                               836    1,039   1,400  1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600o
10. Teachers (1:18)                    0     52       58       78      89      89       89      89      89       89       989
11. Other Post-Secondary Teachers/          100      105      110     116     122      128     134     140      148     155      163
12. TOTAL                            627   2.052   2.050   2 334   2.428   2.500   290   2.620   2.646   2.664   2.671   2.679
Sourcet 1975 Education Plan and Department of Education statistics.
1/ Enrollment raised to 1975 level from the plan figure of 5,000.
2/ Enrollment lowered from plan figures to those proposed by this project.
3/ Includes Australian curriculum high schools.                                                                       a,



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Proposeq First Education Project
Projected Supply of Secondary Level Teachers
19T7    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984   1985
ANNUAL SUPPLY                      Actual  Actual
Goroka Teachers College
(Diploma teachers)
13. Capacity                       430      430     450      450     510     570      630     630      630     630      630    630
14. Three-year course: Intake      123      148     120      150     180     180      180.    180      180     180      180    180
15.                     2nd year    90      116     14.    114       143     171      171     171      171     171      171    171
16.                     3rd year   106       80     111      134     108     135      162     162      162     162      162    162
17. Two-year course:   1st year       8      28       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -      -
18.                     2nd year      -       8      27        -       _ -          -       -            -       -        -      -
19. One-year course:   Agro. Tech. 28        50      50       50      60      60       60      60       60      60       60     60
20.                     P/S           -       -       -      60       60      60       60      60       60      60       60     60
21. Total enrollment (lines 2-8)  355       430     449     508      551     606      633     633      633     633      633    633
22. Supply - employed as teachers   -       126     130     177      229     214      240     265      265     265      265    265
University of PNG (Degree)
23. Output of B.Ed. gra   ates        6      18      23       17      35       40      40
24. Supply of graduatesW/                     2       7        9       7      19       22       25      35       50      70     90
INDIGENOUS STOCK
Non-Graduates
25. Less wastage (8% p.a.)                           43       50      60      74       84      97      111     123      134    145
26. Estimated stock                         5371/   624      751     920   1,060   1,216   1,384   1,538   1,680   1,811  1,931
Graduates
27. Less wastage (8% p.a.)                    1       1       1        2       2        4       5        7       9       12    17
28. Estiuated stock                  10      11      17       25      30       47      65       85     113     15h      212    285
Total Indigenous stock                 547     641      776     950   1,107   1,281   1,469   1,651   1,834   2,023  2,216
Source:  (a) 1974-1980:  Demand for secondary teachers in Papua New Guinea,  Discussion paper no. 2, August 1975,
Central Planning Office.
1981-1985:  A high estimate based on outputs from Faculties of Fducation, Arts and Science, UPNG, as
projected in "Institutional Training in Papua New Guinea, A Statistical Summary", September
1975, Central Planning Office.
(b) Department of Education statistics.
1/ Initially (1975-1977) only W0,1 of Education graduates are estimated to enter teaching (Source (a)).           CD
2/ Breakdown of indigenous stock by qualification is uncertain.
Assumption:  905  progression through training and 9h4% of final year enrollment entering
teaching the following year.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Proposed Education Project
Demand for and Supply of Secondary Level Teachers
of                                                                                          - -~                    
Teachers                                   __                                       -
Required stock
_  all post-primary
institutions
2,000
Required stock
- High Schools and
Vocational Centers
_ lPProjected stock of
sDl                                    Diploma teachers
1,000                                                                                            vv ith ou t (S D1 ) a nd .
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~vith  (SD2) the
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~proposed project
SG 
I ,  , , Bl, U ,                       _   _   _ .                 I            _   __
1975       '76       '77      '78        '79       '80       '81       '82        '83       '84      1985
Note: The difference between the two supply curves "SD2" and "SD1" corresponds
to the benefit of the proposed expansion of Goroka Teachers College. As
shortfall between required stock and projected stock would be filled with
expatriates, arrows above correspond to yearly savings of expatriate man-years.
Between 1977 and 1986, these total 1,800 man-years. Thus, as salary costs
average Kl 1,300 for expatriates and K3,200 for indigenous teachers, the
potential saving on salary costs would amount to K14 million (K8,100 X 1,800).
The actual saving to PNG would, however, be less than this because expatriate
salaries are partially financed from foreign aid.
World Bank-16485



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Proposed First Education Project
Projected Requirement for and Supply of Certificate Level Agricultural Staff
dzwth
1975    1976    1977    1978    19       1980         1    981 1981    1984    1985    Rate
REQUIRED STOCK
1  Extension service        1,584   1,608   1,644   1,674   1,710   1,746   1,782   1,818   1,860   1,902   1,950   2.1% p.a.
2. Other DOPI Staff            441     520     546      573     601      631     633     696      731     768      806   6.2%
3. Plantation localization    100      200      300     300     300      300     300     300      300     300      300
4. Vocational Centers          210     210      210     210     210      210     210     210      210     210      210
5. High Schools                160     188      224     250     250      250     250      250     250      250     250
6. Total stock required    2 ,91   2.726   2,924   3,007    3071   33                     274 3'436                         Z p.a.
SUPPLY
7. Capacity                    304     304      304     440     400      440     440      440     440      440     440
8, First year enrollment      I18      152      156     225     225      225     225      225     225      225     225
9. Second year enrollment
(less 5%)                  81      103     144      148     214     214      214     214      214     214      214
l0o. Supply to labor market
(less 5%)                 101       77      98      137     141     203      203     203      203     203      203
11. Wastage (3% on previous
year's stock)               U       14       16      18      22       25      30       36      41       46      50
12. Projected stock (Actual
1974:  364)                      --57                        375 195 1.188 9                  5     I        1.827
BALANCE
13. Shortfall (-),
surplus (+)             -2,041  -2.209  -2.325  -282   -2        -2,122  -3A2,017  -i 2       L     -       6
14. Fraction of demand met
with qaalified staff        18%                                       32%                                       52%
Sources Agricultural Education and Traini  in Papua New Guinea (Report of the Working Party, March 1975), The 1975
Education Plan, and Department of Prinmry Industry, Central Plann   o Officog an World Bank Staff, April 1976.
Notest   (a) The required stock of teachers with agricultural background (lInes 4 and 5) has been estimated at about
15% and 75% of the teachers in High Schools and Vocational Centers, respectively.
(b) The projected increase of !"Other DOPI Staff" (line 2) seemoe excessive (6.2% p,a. copared with t-he
2.1% p.a. for field staff). As the proposed expansion (line 7,1977/78) is limited by financial
considerations rather than anticipated demand, this has no consequences for the proposed expansion.
S      I                                                                    S



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Proposed First Education Project
Pro,jected Rea~uirement for and Su p-vof Diploma Level .A rcultural Staff. 19 ~-1985
Growth
REQUIRED STOCK                      1976   5        1978             1       19      1982   X2                         Rate _
1. Field extension service  264      268     274     279     285      291     297     303      310     317      325     2.1% p.a.
2. Other DOPI staff          96      120     126     132     139      146     153     160      168     176     185      6.8% pea.
3. Plantation localization  100      200     300     300     300      300     300     300      300     300      300
4. Agricultural Serv. Cots. 18        20      22      24      26       28      31      34       37       0       43
5. Rural Credit Org.          9       11      13      15      17       19      21       24      27      30       33
6. Total stock required     4          9             750      6       7       802     821      f         3      886     6.?% p,.
SUPPLY
7. Enroll. capacity (Vudal) 270      270     270     210     210      210     210     210      210     210      210
8, First yr. enrollment     109       95      74      74       74      74      74       74      74      74       74
9. Sec. yr. enrol.(less 5%)  85       96      90      70      70       70      70       70      70      70       70
10, Third"   "       '        52       78      91      86      66       66      66       66      66      66       66
11. Supply to labor market
(less 5%)                67      68       74      87      81      63       63      63       63      63      63
12. Wastage (4%)                5       7      10      12       15      18      20       21      23       25      26
13. Projected stock
(Actual 1974: 120)      182                      38a  Q  L2  8              6                   686        693
BAIANCE
14. Shortfall (-)9 1irplus (+)7              -     -328    -              -212 .2-66           -2      -2       -193
15. Fraction of demand
met with local staff     37%                                       63%                                       78%
Source:  Agrtcultural Education and Training in Papua New Guinea (Report of the Working Party, March 1975 "Training
Report")and Department of Primary Industries staff, April 1976.
Note: (a) The increase of "Other DOPI Staff", as projected by the "Training Report" (line 2) seems excessive (6,8% p.a.
as compared with 2.1% p,a. for field staff). The shortage 1980 Qine 14) may thus be less than 190 (22%) and
should not be taken as an argument for increased training capacity.
(b) A reorganization of diploma level training to a one-year post certificate course does not invalidate this
projection: The total capacity of the three Colleges (Vudal, HATI and PATI) would not change, and the enroll-
ments could be adjusted to maintain the balance between certificate and diploma outputs.
(c) The second year trainees from Vudal College have hitherto been accommodated in a field camp at HATI.           z
From 1978, following HATI's expansion, this will not be possible. The capacity has been adjusted accordingly          A
from 1978, 



PAPUA TEEW GUINEA
Proposed First Education Project
Projected Demand for and Supply of Health InIRectors (HIs)
REQUIRED STOCK                          1976    1.977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
1. Government requirementl/               48       50      52       54      57       61      64       67       70       73      79
2. Local Council requirement              22       24      26       28      30       32      34       36       38      40       42
3. Total active duty requircrvn+          70       71      78       8?      87       93       98     103      108     113      121
4. Annual leave replacement
(3 weeks per year)                     4       4        5       5        5        5       6        6        6       1        7
5. Study leave replacement (5%)            4        4       4        4       4        5        5       5        5        6       6
6. Total required stock                   78       82      87       91      96      103     109      114      119      126     134
SUPPLY
7. Supply (new graduates)                 14       14      15       10      20       20       20      20       20       20      20
8. Wastage rate (% p.a. on
previous year's stock)                20      18       16       14      12       10       8        8        8        8       8
9. Wastage-                               11       11      10       10        8       8        7       8        9       10      11
10. Projected stock (Actual 1975 =57)    60         6       68       68      80       92 .   .0      1.17    _128       138     147
BALANCE
11. Shortage (-)/Surplus (+)              -18      -19     -19      -23     -16      -11      -4      + 3      + 9      +12     +13
Source:  Department of Public Health and World Bank Staff, April 1976.
/  Government requirements are based on one HI per 10,000 urban population plus requirements for training and
administration.
j  Wastage of HIs has been running about 20% p.a. due to opportunities in industy as Health and Safety inspectors 0.
An ad hoc decline in wastage from 20% to 8% p.a. has been assumed.  Obviously, the demand/supply projections will
need to be reviewed with intervals of 2-3 years for possible adjustments of outputs.                                            co



PAPUA NEW GUIEA
Proposed First Education Project
Projected Demand for and Supply of Health Extension Officers (HEOs)
REQUIRED STOCK                          1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
1. Population requirement (1:15,000)   166        172     178      184     191      197      205     213      220      229     237
2. Other DOPH requirements (Includes
Church Agency Services)             188      191     194      197     202      207      210     210      210      210     210
3. Total active duty requirements        354      363     372      381     393      404      415     423      430      439     447
4. Annual leave replacement
(3 weeks per year)                    20      21       21       22      23       23      24       24       25      25       26
5. Study Leave replacement (5%)           18       18      19       19      20       20       21       21      22       22       22
6. Total required stock                  392      402     412      422     436      447      460     468      477      486     495
SUPPLY
7. Supply (new graduates)                 35       35      30       18      40       40       41      42       43       44      44
8. Less wastage (8% p.a.)                 12       14      15       17      17       18       20       22      24       25       27
9. Projected stock (actual 1975 =148)  1'71       192     207      208     231      253      274     294      313      332     349
BALANCE
10. Shortage (-)/Surplus (+)             -221    -210    -205    -214    -205    -194    -186    -174    -164    -154    -146
11. Fraction of requirement met            44%                                        57%                                         71%
Source: Department of Public Health and World Bank Staff, April 1976.



Annex9
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Proposed Firnt Education Project
A Note on Demand for and Supply of Technical Manpower
1.          Manpower surveys in PNG Aave not sufficiently disaggregated by level
of skill training or occupational orientation to be of real value to long-term
planning of technical training.  Further, even with adequate baseline data, it
is at this stage very difficult to predict future manpower needs because the pro-
cess of localization is parallelled by a redistrlbation of manpower by levels of
skill. Also the modern technical sector is so narrow that a single large-scale
project (like the proposed Ok Tedi Cooper) will have a large impact on the demand.
2.          Skilled Workers.  Preliminary manpower estimates indicate for 1980 a
required stock of the order of 9,000 workers and a shortage of about 3,000:
Stock 1_972     Regairements 1972-80
Occupational    Natio- Non    New   Wastage  Local-              Supply   Shortage(+)
area         nal    Nat.             (2%)   isation  Total   72-80       arulaus (+)
Electrical        505      473    349   119       473     941      630       -311
Mechanical      1,682   1,182  1,163   397    1,182   2,742    1,759        -983
Building        1,135     134    785   268       134   1,187       472       -713
Catering           792      56  *8   188   .        6     792      157       -712
Total        4,114   1,845  2,845   972    1,845   5,662    3,018    -2,721
SOURCE: Manpower Planning Unit - 15th July, 1975 - New requirements are based on
a workforce growth rate of 5% based on the Parker Study.
This predicted shortage seems overestimated because Technical Colleges are dis-
continuing their general high school streams (with enroIlment capacity of 2,500)
in favor of Pre-Employment Technical Training (PETT) and private industry will be
encouraged by a training levy and grant system to set up its own specialized train-
ing schemes. It is possible that the demand will be largely met shortly after 1980.
With a 5% per annum growth of the labor force and 2% wastage, the annual demand for
skilled workers in technical fields would be of the order of ,600 around 1980, Which
is less than the capacity of the Technical Colleges, A single large-scale indus-
trial investment can, however, increase the demand considerably.
3.          Middle Level Technicians.  No demand projections have been attempted
for certificate level technicians in PNG. The cumulative output up to 1975 amounts
to 330, of which 150 have a commercial orientation, and the indigenous stock may
amount to 300. Local personnel at this level are in a mipority. The proposed
project would expand training facilities from an output capacity of 135 to 210 p.a.
The supply and stock of indigenous technicians would develop as follows:



AMEX 9
Page 2
1975  1276     Z  1978  1979  1980  1985
Technical CoUege outptits              135   135   135   135   180   210       210
Univ. of Technology output              10    14    15    17    23    23         23
Total anual output               145  149   150   152   203   233        2
Supply (output less 4%)                       139   1     14   176             2219
Wastage (4% on previous yrs. stock)            12    17    22    27    32        66
Stock indigenous of technicians         300   427   553   675   794   957   1,800
The projected stock appears low in comparison with the number of skilled workers
(para 2 above) and engineers (para 4 below), commonly accepted ratios in more
industralized countries between graduate engineers, technicians and skilled workers
being 1:4:20. In common with other countries at similar states of development the
figures are reasonable and are in effect distorted because many degree-level
engineers find employment in what must be considered as technician-level jobs.
4.            EIgineers.  The stock of degree level engineers in PNG amounted to
753 in 1971 of which 17 were indigenous. Cumulative outputs from the UTniversity of
Technology amount to 61. The indigenous stock may thus be estimated to about 70.
Future outputs will add to the stock as follows:
1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1985
Output                     71     86   119   143   152   162   190    190
Supply to stock (96%)      -      68    82   114   134   146   182    182
Wastage 4%                         3      5     8    13    18    23      46
Indigenous stock           70    135   212   318   439   567   726  1,280
Future demands cannot easily be estimated.  If the 1971 actual stock (753) plus a
3%-5% growth rate could be taken as a basis for an estimate, a stock of 1,100-1,500
would be required in 1985. Obviously full localization will not be achieved before
mid-1980.
Sources:  (a) Institutional Training in Papua New Guinea, A Statistical Summary,
Manpower Planning Unit, September 1975, Central Planning Office.
(b) Population Census, 1971. Bureau of Statistics, PNG Bulletin No. 1.



Page J..
PAPUA NEW GTINEA
I 97~Z76-198b,85 BUDGET
Recurrent Costs (K'000)
Tinancial  Prim.   Voc. &    Dist.  Nat.   Tech. Tchrs.  Adult  Servicing  Total
fears      Sch.    Skulanka  H.S.   H.S.  Coll.  Coil,    Ed.           Costs    Costa
1975/76    23.967    1.362   6.696   .592  2,688  2.542    .438    4.587    42.872
1976/77    25.084    1.348   7.487   .769  3.000  2.661    .450    4.937    45.736
1977/78    26.961    1.348   8.025   .947  3.178  2.728    .450    5.279    48.915
1978/79    29.007   .1.348   8.491  1.010  3.178  2.784    .450    5.598    51.865
1979/80    31.366    1.348   8.927  1.010  3.178  3.038    .450    5.970    55.312
10/81    34.040    1.348   9.284  1.010  3.178  3.572    .450    6.405    59.335
1981/82    36.781    1.348   9.520  1.010  3.178  3.910    .450    6.806    63.052
L992/83    39.690    1.348   9.639  1.010  3.178  3.938    .450    7.175    66.477
L983/84    42.854    1.348   9.670  1.010  3.178  3.938    .450    7.562    70.059
1984/85    45.889    1.348   9.670  1.010  3.178  3.938    .450    7.930    73.462
1'.       The 1975/76 figures shown represent the Department of Education's revised
budget estimates.  Primary and high school costs include costs of PNG students attending
non-PNG curriculum schools, costed at PNG per capita levels (see para 2 below).  Figures
included are K87,264 (909 x K96) primary and K212,000 (963 x K220) secondary.
2.        Recurrent costs per student were calculated by dividing the Department of
Education's 1975/76 proposed budget estimates for each sector by the averaged number
of students in 1975/76.  Per student costs arrived at in this way and used to calculate
costs from 1976/77 are (KT7
Primary                96           Nat. H.S.            631
High School           220           Technical            706
Voc. and Skulanka    245            Tchrs.Coll.         1125
3.        Servicing costs comprise the policy and administration and education services
components of the budget. Projected servicing costs are based on a constant 12.1%
loading on total operational costs, (%is being the actual loading proposed in 1975/76).
4.        Excluded from the figures above are tertiary scholarship costs and all
expatriate education costs including education subsidies. All ASAG costs are also
excluded. Teachers' college costs shown are for primary colleges only.
5.        No allowanee has been made for maintenance and certain general overheads
(which are not included in the Education Budget).
Source: 1975 Education Plan.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA                        Page 2
19/76-1 9814/85 BUDG3ET
Capital Costs (K'0OO)
Financial  Prim.  Voc.       Dist.  Nat.  Tech.  Tchrs.  Total
Years       Sch.   Centres  H.S.   H.S.  Coll.  Coll.   Cap.cost
1975/76    1.519   .093    1.659  .788   .403   .130    4.592
1976/77    1.819   .090    1.685  .882   .273   .148    4.897
1977/78    1.981   .060    1.459  .550   .220   .239    4.509
1978/79    2.286   .060    1.365  .250   .220   .362    4.543
1979/80    2.590   .060    1.118  .200   .220   .369    4.557
1980/81    2.656   .060    .770   .100   .220   .266    4.072
1981/82    2.817   .060    .425   .100   .220   .168    3.790
1982/83    3.066   .060    .225   .100   .220   .130    3,801
1983/84    2.941   .060    .200   .100   .220   .130    3.651
1984/85    2.741   .060    .200   .100   .220   .130    3.451
1.        The 1975/76 costs are based on the anticipated budget allocations.
2.        These capital cost projections are aggregated for all sources of
Government capital funding (i.e., Works Programme, K for K subsidy, subsidies
to councils, Rural Improvement Program).
3.        Primary and secondary per student capital costs were calculated by
dividing the 19714/75 capital budget appropriation by the increase in student
numbers in 1975/76. The per student costs were K93 for primary and K689 for
secondary. Capital cost projections for primary and secondary have therefore
been calculated by miltiplying the increase in student numbers for the following
year by per student capital costs. No atteiiipt has been made to disaggregate
expansion and replacement costs. Replacement/minor works costs of K200,000 are
assumed for high schools from 1983.
4.        No costs are included for skulanka since skulanka numbers are expected
to decline.
5.        Vocational center projections from 1976 are based on an arbitrary
estimate of funds to be made available for replacement (since no expansion is
__anned.
6.        National high school costs are based on student increase projections
at a per student cost of K3,500. Replacement/minor costs of K100,000 are assumed
in later years.
7.        Projections for technical and teacherst colleges from 1976 are based
on an arbitrary estimate of replacement funds.  Teacher college expansion needs
will claim additional funds at K700 per student place (distributed over the
period 1978-81 ).
Source: 1975 Education Plan.



coao.tr Papua. New Guinea  _ PrJect First Education Proieta_
UNMNXAR Y  OPF  EST I MA T ED  P ROJ E CT   CO0S T
E S T I M A T E D C C S T S  I N   0O 0 0  0 P   Kina   ____(I 9 7 6P R I C   S0)                                        E S T.  T 0 T A L C 0 S T S
PXOJECT              sito   B______           UILIES         F______                  URNITURE ____                 EQuJipmEN& Books       TOTAL       PROFESSIONAL    TECH-   5., '000      to '05
ooop Aco,ot1c,             itffi    Acodoi,                                  f Acodmi                           PHYSICAL      SERVICES     NICAL      off
____ C.-..Io                                     C-.al00   Staff                 comacoI Staff                EoSPo...,Arh                   ANCE
__    . DEPARTMENT OF PRI  ?Y                                                                                               (uater
IDSR  (DOPI)
10o  Highlands Agricultural  ___                _    __
Training Inst itute-
(Mt. Hagen)                65          80        150        220         450       15 I/       35       50          --                  -565                  30    __                  595          744
II. DEPARTMENT OF
-   PUBLC HEALTH (OOPT
B10 So~         of Allied
Health Scien!ces(Madan  -40-           180         70 _      150        400        20 1/       20       40        65         20       85          565         25    ___50738
III. DEPARTMENT OF
ClOI Rural Vocational Center-                             -                                          -        -_        95          -       95           95         -    _95                              119
ziOIPrimary Teacher Trainn g
(l9tadang)               40         110        185         60        355        30 1/      30        60         35         5        40          495        25   _                 520            650
C10O Secondary Teacher Trg.
(Goroka)          70         130        240      250   __,6_20_          20         50        70       120          5      125          885         40                        925        1,156
ClOZ Technician Training         40         300      __-_         110         410       30          10       40        330          5      335          825        25            __           850       1,063
Total MOE            150        540         425       42_0_    1,385         80         90       170__    580          15      595        2,300         90            ___       2,390        2,988
IV. TECHNICAL ASSI.STAN(           ____
a. MOE      __ _  _      _  _
Rural Development (3 Try)                                                                             ___130                                                                           130         162
Techn. Trg. (Lao)                                                                                                                                                          350         350         438
Poliry Plannling Div(~ .5 m/y                                      __________________    ____115                                                                                       115         144
b. MOH
Specialists,-(3  /y____130                                                                                                                                                             13          162
Fellowships (9.  mly)____
C.    irtmetof                                                                                                                                                  --
Labor & Industries
National  I~g.  Couni(2 Ul/y  _____                     --                                    ___    __ _____________                                                 90          90          112
*   --ony Eqiola:  01.00    Kina 0.80            -         -
1/Includes furniture for e.isting facilities.



papua NevT tuinea                  First Education Project
Country      _       _       Project           .-_ _
S U M M A R Y  O F  E S T I M A T B D  P R O J E C T  C o S T
o                                                              C    S T I M AT  E DC O S T S I N    0 00  o F _ ___ _(I19  7P ROIc E S)            F     ,      ___         ~    EsT   TO  A L  C Os Ts
ITEM            Ouvalop   _nudain,             _oaSI               _cudnain,        j           Sna.Onu.io,                   F,FOOICRT,    T.ESSTOCI   STOOL oF.            T T
di   PROJECT        Sitn                  BUILDINGS                         U RNITURE                       EQUIPMENT              TOTAL      PROFESSIONAL  TECd-    in 000      in S000
Rent     ain.        nding     NSoOIf I  Total   Ad.       Bdg    Tot         Ad. A ] Bording  ITotal    FACILITES   Co. I            ASSIST                 US$*
at    _        ---                                  -                                                                                        - | coruEun- t->6; -.   1  z-  -  ........ (EoeSra,_|l olua |l(Ec.Rrof.Ftt, LArcO.  ANf ACE_
_ d, CevtralPlenni_Office PI               : I_.__e
Integrated Rural Dv_.&                            _ _         _   .             -             -                                  _ _
-    Community - Based Training  3m)                                                                                                                                 130         130         163
_  __________   --  -F                 -------------- _        ___-- ____ _   L        ---    __------t----- 0------ ---- ------- --- ----                               1--- ----__        ___
TOTA BASE _-1--    Kina--  -255- -           -        5 -    79--    2,3         - 1 .5     14       26        645        35       680      3,43        14      _       0      4.5.5
TES       %S-__                                                          -__ .__                     ___ _.-_    _            _  __.._  _    _f_                        _  _         _
_   i       X                     _AA    -      --X -            t   -t        ~~~~  t               X           -      -- 1                1      t         --  -~-t__  _r~---~=+--- t---'-.-- - - -t-----t--  -- -,.- -----
_    ~ ~       ~__   II        I---t-                                        -  ___                             --         -.-    -            -----1----I---- -- -t----  -.-- --------t-   -<
__ _               ___                            __ 874                           103                          2                                    325 _ -|-5
_______                      ____                                      ___                     _______   _____ ------.-  ------  ----------. -|----t  - -i.------- =-----   -    __________
e________                                                        Il  __ __ ___ .if     =      _=_ H~  -  --w  _ __   ____    _____                  L                              _ __||__ 
_T.                -- i-n-    - a                                                                                                      _   I                                _5      _07
us$    000     9I4 81,5                                                                                                                2 it           7                  7,385-_ _
TOTAL  B OR C       Tita       25         06                  0        255                  1        202I a,                                                    =__
CEnOlding )    uS$   'ooo  I31    1,000          807      988      2,795        144       181  _325   r-0   T_44                850    _4289         181          1,250      |     |    .5,720
_ ,,                                                     ,                          .    _           .         .         .         9
__NTINGENCIES _4 Bade Cost Le1E-f                                                                                               _ _ _]__s=== IL\ / 114 _1 _ X1 Cr EqI ll I
COIIOSCE          _iSon Cat                           L!9A                                                                              _____ na-co  96  699_| I  8A3 3 --a - l 6-=t C 26 II _1 3 -  -=-
t1            llx~us    'Eta   120   ; _-                           874     ll--    --     _     103  __                      204          ____      391          {325       11    t1,665_
t!                |_                                                  ___ --                         ___ ---            - -     |    9t   _         _      09t       4_ 
t|TOTAL PROJECT COOT  | Nina                                          3,66                            428                        1,5                                            5,907|--      -- >- - ;= -0    L    ----=--- 
1(TOol .Contongence)|u$'ontoo 43  6|48SS__5 j  2        -    -     -                                         -                                      -                 1, 575      |          =| 7, 385_|
|TOTAL FOR. EXCR.  T% Total           Cot0t                                                 --   -      40%3                         j<j 90%Ol i     120                90/o|% L 1@1
II GOASONFNT |   us$   '000|>33   ||-   _   >70   _L/-  >  .  F  948  ,  _  L66  |  0  ,413 L _g 4k206 _ || M|F'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  98    6  ,18 ______ 4,0
I' - A__ -_ 1{ _IT .__ . - . . _ *Corfoncy Eqoivnanrt: US$1,.00                             Ninta  0.80 _



ANNEX 12
PA?UA NEW GUINEA
Proposed.First E ducation Proj ect
Summary of Estimated Foreign Zcchange Costs by Cateogories
Kina (thousand                    a
Local F_reign  Total  Loc            n  Total
I. Civil Works
Academic & Communal             480     320      800    600      400   1,000
Boarding                        385     260      645    480      325     805
Staff Housing                   475     315      790    595      395     990
Site Development                180       75     255    225       95     320
Sub-Total                 1,520     970   22490  1,900   1,215   3,115
II.  Professional Services           100       45     145    125       55      180
III.  Furniture                       155      105     260    195      130      325
IV.  Equijinent                       70      610     680      85     765      850
V.  Technical Assistance            100      900   1,000    125   1,125   1,250
VI. Contingencies
Physical                    105     1h0      245    135     170      305
Price                       495     595   1,090    615      745   1,360
Sub-Total                   600     735   1,335    750      915   1,665-
Total                     2,545   3,365   5,910  3,180   4,205   7,385



c_untryPapua New Guinea   Educotion Project First Education Project
P ROJ E CT   CO0S T   CO0NT IN GE N CY   A LLOW A N CE S
(E.tinotes in '000 of US Dol1ars)
SITE DEVELOPMENT        BUILDINGS               FURITUR               EQUIPMENT                    PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                           TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     TOTAL
110001   creigo  Tatol  Local  Fl_   Totolt  oroign   otol   ~ARCH. CoNsuLTANTS                     EXPAT. SPECIALISTS      STAFF DEVELOPHENiTO
L    rrlCnjT     T -111-a.T..or1 .ef   T&c                     LocI'        Ieg  ~      Locol Foreign  Totol1 Loc..l  Foreig   Toto1  Locol or-ig. Tot.l  Local Foreign   oa           oa   o6    T.t.l
L..cGal FErtiEnt Sto19o6n   223      96    319  1,67511,120 2,7951 195    130    325              85-   765      85     127    54       181                            125   1,125  1,25C                           2,430 3,29015,720
I Local & Foreign of Tote    70%    30%   100%    602    40%   100%    60%   .40%  ~100%10% 90    1007    70%   30%    100%                      101%   90%   1007/                          42.5%  57.5%1 100'!
Phyaical Contingency
%aiof ..Ciost               10      10      10       5      5       5       5       5      5     _5        5      5.      5     5        5                               5       5     5                           44.07156.02  100%/
A-seut                      22      10      32     84      56    140       10       7     17      5      38      43       7   -3        10                               6     57    63                     __        134    171  305
Nos Coat + Physiral         245    106    351   1,759 1,176 2,935   205    137    342    90              803    893    134    57        191                            131   1,182 1,313                            2,564 3,461 6,025
Enpected Frico. croe
% B..   Ph.i.l  o.t.g 25     25      25     25      25      25     25      25      25    18       18      18      15    15       15                              2         0     24.%    48110
A.o..ut                     61      27      88    440    294  1734  -52           34      86    16      145    16 1      20      9       29                             26      236    262                           615 1745 11,360
T-tI GtigcyAII..n-- 83        37    120    524    350    874         62     41    103    21       183    204       27    12       39                              32     2931  325                             749    916   1, .665
%  oaml AFoceign ef Total   69%    31%.   100%    607    40%   1007    6 0%    40%   100%1 10W.%    907   100%    69%   317    100%7__                                  10%l    90%/  1 007   __   _____    45.0%  55.0%/  1007.
Total Hot. Poj.ect Coast.                                         366      25      17     42      10      94    105      15      66      20171481513 794261781
tincEuding Cantingencies)  306    133    439   2, 199 2,470   ,6          5       7       2      0       4      ,5      5       6      2017 14815                                                                    ,7    ,0    ,8
% Local & Foreign of Totej  70%I    3 0%   100%    6 0%    40%   100%    60%    4 0%   100%    10%    9 0%   1 0 0%    70%   30%    100%          -                    10      90%/ 100%                          1432.  57.07,100
aL-o1 staff t-ainiss
Including --er....
Fell-.ahip preg-e..



PAPUJA N&W GUINEA
Proposed First Education Project
Technical AssistanceP_roi,am
The proposed project includes financing for specialist services and fellowships
as follows:
Specialist      Fellowships         Estim-ted
Services     Foreign Local            Cos-t
(man-years)   (mTn-years)           (TS$1,O00)
College of Allied Health Sciences,    3                                     162
Madang: Curriculum improvement                        3.5                   39
and staff development                                         6             30
Rtural Vocational Centers:               3                                  162
Initiation and coordination of
the proposed experiment at five
centers
Lae T'echnical College:                  ,                                 438
Commissioning of equipment and
improving of curricula and teaching
methods
C entral PLanning Oi2ficet               3                                  163
Preinvestment stutr on ruraL
development1.; rtnd commnunity educationt/
Policy and Planning Division             2.5                                144
KOE: School mapping, physical
facility plainning .-ind mid term
review, of 1975 Education plan
Department of Lfabour and Industry:    2                                    112
National Training Council
l'otall                     21.5           3.5    6          1,2 50
l,' This would form part of a wider technical :.ssis-Lance prog-ram which would
help the Central Planning Office to (a) review the Goveinment's emerging
develovment strategy; (b) formulatbe wor+k:-ilbie national development programs;
and (c) propose modifications to Government services in support c- these
development programs.  It is envisaged that this program would incLude Ehe
following elements:
- Resource economist--to advise cn  wjOl' resou.ce projects
- Rural development economist--to .-dvise on an integrated approc: oh icr
a rural development program (about two man-years)
- Educator--to advise on appropria.,te form(s) of education at tLe
post-primary level (about one man-year)
- Mzanpower specialist--to advise on employment strategies (icrlluding
the informal sector and rural industries)
- Political and Pevelopment Economists--to advise on the preparation
of a rive Year Plan.



ANNEX 15
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
FORC-t ST OF DISa;RSEMYT
TU S-  -"; qm-,-o
a. Foreca5st of   tditzwo (US$ wioN)
Cwmulative
FT   Semester E_ e        _, turos   i sbirs n  ntr           s
1977      1          0.3          0.1            0.3           i.1
2          o.6          0o.3          09             Osl4
1978      3          1.0          0.6 1S9                      1.0
4$         1.           Ct0.8         3.3            1.8
1 979     5.0                     0.6            4 e           2.4
6          1.L          o.6            5.14          3.0
1980      7          1.1          o.6            665           3.6
8          0.6          0.3           7.1            3,9
1981      9          0.3           o,l           7,4           lge0
b. Forecast of Disbursements (US$ millions)
s _bursement                  Undisbursed
FY  Semester                         Cmuative               Balances       %
1977      1         0.1        2.0        0.1        2.0        3,9       98.0
2         0.3        8.0       0.4        10.0        3.6      90.0
1978      3         o.6       15 .o       1.0       25O         3,0      75.0
4         0.8       20C.0      18         145.0        2       55.0
1979                o.6       15 , O      214 0i    M "I          -6     140.0
6         0o.6      150        3.0        75.0        1.0      25.0
1980      7         0o6        5 o        3,,6 390 9c           0 . O4    10.0
8         0.3       8&0        3G9        980         0..1      2.0
1981      9         0.1         2.0      14.0      100.0         0          0



PAPUA  JEW4, GW,JWEA                                            CHART 1
Structure of the Eduration ard T rainitn System., 1975
LABOR FORCE
r         UNIVERSITY OF PNG   F                                        _
L EG END                       HIGHER                                                                                       V
TRG TRAINING                   EDUCATION                                                                                   I       -
P   PREPARATORY                              UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY      I                                                       0 2  >
F   SECONDARY FORM 1-6                                                 II                                 <0 _  1 L-
C   CERTIFICATE COURSES                                                                               L
A   APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING                                                       1
V VOCATIONAL TRAINING                  SECONDARY TEACHER TRG COLLEGE                            -- - - -
S   STENOGRAPHY
EIFULL TIME
L    BLOCK RELEASE OR FIELD TRG             AGRICULTURAL TRG COLLEGE                              -  - -  -       _ ---
*   PRIMARY SCHOOL LEAVER
SCHOOL CERTIFICATE
0   HIGHER SCHOOL CERTIFICATE                                                             rn
O   DIPLOMlA                                        FORESTRY CO! LEGL
O   DEGREE
A   CERTIFICATED TRADESMAN
A   TECHNICIAN CERTIFICATE                        SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS                  _- F   _ _                   - - _
1    3 BEING PHASED OUT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT STAFF TRG COLLEGE  -F I
POST SECONDARY
EDUCATIONI
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF COLLEGE            -1-  - 2                -    -
>2
AGRICULTURAL TRG INSTITUTES       _ 1                                   _ O         I
COOPERATIVE COLLEGE             2
PARA-MEDICAL COLLEGES   L                    ----------
PRIMARY TEACHER TRG COLLEGES                 - Z--
HIGH SCHOOLS    -2-                      - _   ---_.,-----
TECHNICAL SCHOOLS & COLLEGES    F-4F4           C1 I-I C2i       C3    -           - --- .  _
r-1    r1       r 2-i   F--I
-iAl             Al~" 4E2  ~ ----          ---
L_J   L_.       LJ   ._J
SECOND
LEVEL                 SECRETARIAL SCHOOLS                                - 2           -
EDUCATION
SKILLED) AND
NURSING TRAINING SCHOOLS    1       2        2                       -      -              SEMI-SKILLED
ID)
HIGH SCHOOLS    Fl-F2           ---     -     - ----            --
VOCATiONAL CENTERS
PRIMARY SCHOOLS
GRADE 1       2      3      4      5      6      7      a      9      10       11      12      13    14       15              UNSK!LLEO
i  }   -}   }  l  l  l  l  l      l        l                                 |           ~~      ~     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(E)i
AGE   7       B      9      10    11    12       13    14      15     16       17    18        19      20     21
PRIMARY EDUCATION                    SECOND LEVEL                    POST SECONDARY AND
EDUCATION                       HIGHER EDUCATiON
WoId Bank-164B6



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Educational Pyramid 1975: National Education System (Formal Sector)
MALE                                FEMALE
GRADE AGE                                                                                                                    AGE  GRADE
12  18                                .,                                                                                   18  12
1.2%                                                                                                                                             0 0.4%
11  17                                                                                                                     17  11
10  16                                                                                                                     16  1 0
9 15                                                                                                                      15 9
P  18.3%                                                                                                                                              8.1%   _
8 14                                                                                                                      1 4 8
I-                                                                                                                                                           I
2                                                                                                                                                     zii1  ,<'.g.",.", d
13 7                                                               1 3                                                         1 3 7           1
-I
6 6                                      1                                                                                1 1  2 6
w                                                                                                                                                            wU
U5 11                                                                                                                      115               LO1!
1.0 ~ ~ ~ ~         C         eonayTcl  ol                      z       Ttlpplto                           m      Sno   ihSho                            |Ci
o                                                                                                                                                            0
CD         ~~4 10                                                                                                                     10 4
69.4%                                                                                                                                              43.5%
3 9                                                                                                                        9 3
2 8                                                                                                                        8 2
17                                                                                                                        7 1
40     35     30     25     20      15     10      5      0      5      10     15      20     25    30       35     40
(IN THOUSANDS)
I I Secondary Tech. Coil.                       TotalpopultionSenior High School
in age group
3 1   Primary                      m       Secondary High School
Source. Education Planniing Unit, Department of Education, Port Moresby
Gross Enrollment Ratio=Enrollment by level as a percentage of the relevant age group,
i.e. no adjustment is made foroverage students.                                                                     World Bank-16484



PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                                  CHART 3
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1976                     1977
Responsible                          1/    2/      /
Main Activities                           Authorities            J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D
A. Project Management
1. Appointment of Project Manager                   GOPNG/DOF                      X X X X
(Assistant to PCU Coordinator)
2. Appointment or designation of:                   GOPNG/
a. Project Architect                               DTWS/DOF                       X X X X
b. Procurement Officer                             DOF                            X X X X X X
c. Department Coordinators:
Department of Primary Industries              DOPI                             X X X X X
Department of Health                          DOH                               X X  X X
Department of Education                       DOE                              X  X X X X
Department of Labor                           DOL                              X X X X X
Central Office of Planning                    CPO                              X X X X X
B. Civil Works
3. Site Survey and Acquisition                      GOPNG/MOH                        X X X X X
4. Site Transfer to STTC                            MOE/UPNG                       X X K X X
5. Preparation of Sketch Design                     UPNG/DTWS             X X X X
6. Preparation of Final Design                      UPNG/DTWS/PCU              X X X X X X X
7. Preparation of Working Drawings and
Bidding Documents                              UPNG/DTWS/PCU              X X X X X X K X X X X X X
8. Submission for IDA Review                        PCU/IDA                        X X X X X X K X X X X
9. Invitation for Bid                               UPNG/DTWS/PCU                  X X X X X X X X X x
10. Bid Opening and Evaluation                       UPNG/DTWS/PCU                    X X X X X X X X X X
11. Submission of Bid Analysis to IDA                PCU/IDA                            X X X X X X X X X X
12. Contract Awards                                  PCU/IDA                            X X X X X X  X X X X X
13. Construction Period                              UPNG/DTWS/PCU/
Contractor                               X X     XX X X  X X X  X X X X X
14. IDA Supervision                                                                              X X X          X X X
C. Furniture and Equipment
15. Preparation of Master Lists                      All Dept./PCU              X X X X X X X X X
16. Submission for IDA Review                        PCU/IDA                          X X X X X K X K
17. Preparation of Tender Documents                  PCU/All Dept.                       X X X X X X X X X X
18. Submission for IDA Review                        PCU/IDA                               X X X X X X X X X
19. Invitation for Bid                               PCU                                     X X X X X X KX X
20. Bid Period and Evaluation                        PCU                                         X X X X X   X X   X
21, Submission for IDA Review                        PCU/IDA                                          K X X X X  X X X
22. Coatract Awards                                  PCU                                                X X X X X X X X X
23. Procurement                                      PCU/All Dept./
Manufacturer                                      X  X X X   X X X X X X X
D. Technical Assistance
Specialists
24. Preparation of Terms of Reference for            PCU/DOE/DOL/
Experts Services and Submission                DOH/CPO/IDA                    X X X X X X X X X X X
for IDA Review
25. Recruitment & Selection of Experts and
IDA Approval                                   PCU/DOF/IDA                                 X X E X   X X    X X  X X X X
26. Appointment of Experts                           PCU/DOF                                           K X X            X X X
27. Experts Services Period                          PCU/Depts./Expert                                      X X X X X X X X X
Fellowships
28. Selection of Candidates                          CPO/DOH/IDA                                     X X X X
29. Training Period                                  DOH Fellow                                                         X X X X
1/  Assumed negotiation date              GOPNG - Government of Papua New Guinea
2/  Assumed credit signing date           DOP   - Department of Finance
3/  Assumed effectiveness date            DTWS  - Department of Transport Works and Supply
DOPI  - Department of Primary Industries
DOH   - Department of Health
DOE   - Department of Education
DOL   - Department of Labor
CPO   - Central Project Office
UPNG  - University of Papua New Guinea
PCU   - Project Coordination Unit
May 1976



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FIR$T EDUCATION PROJECT
1976    t/    2/       3/               1977                                     1978                                     1979                                    19
IMPLEMENTATION CHART                         -       ___    ____
1         2         3         4         1          2         3         4         1         2         3         4          1         2         3          4         1         2         3         4
CIVIL WORKS_
Appointment of Project Manager                 *
and Project Architect to PCU.
Appointment of Procurement                            m      _
Officer- and Dept. Coordinators
Preparation of Design                      *      U  *
Preparation of Tender Documents                   U  *       _
Tender Period and Contract Awards                 *    *    _
Co-struction Period                                                 _
Defects Liability Period                                     _                   _                                                                   - _  _ 
IDA Review                                              _
EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE
Preparation of Master Lists                *       -  n      _
Preparation of Tender Documents                              _
Tender Period and Contract Awards                                     _
Procurement                                                                      _
Guarantee Period                                                                                                    _                                                     -
IDA Review                                               _
TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS
Specialists                                           a-   _                             _ 
Staff Development                                            _
1/ Assumed Negotiation Date                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
2/ Assumed Agreement SignIng Date                                                                                                                                                                                         World Bank-16508(R)
3/ Atsumed Effective Date



A            A



zz~~~i ie-                                                            .                                                                                                                                  NE:j r    ii     
1.V   w,*   QS -          N-
0.-i,'-R+ > '-0009-0 
coe-g/ v       
*,ceX00 X0A.t  Xt __-i%
V  0  0         t              0        >    t                                                                                                k                        l /---------------------0                                                                                                                                                                                                    , 
10-                                                                                                                       / n .t    | ,                                                                                                       ,                                                   A1<
_                                                                                                                                                                              *    _  _    _   _  _    _   _  _   __ _-_ l_-_ _ _ _ _o /  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I X,'_i, .bMi A, t_> M4
0                                                  ;=  s   (     IS  3N   Oa NI  V  V  N  I8 I4 '=n  <4 00 ; L



I
I
i



_~~~~~~~                             ,0                                                                   I )tX 110 ;/IR                                   ONESIA)0 0 
C 0t             - --N- -=-       /  -L--
07                 -                         .f                         .  N
=    z   te   *  2  =  E ; < =  X A ;/ > i 2 \> t / t --r t:F 
: I0 ,E ,.    0   ,- ~         /              .        
z :    5X     ==-X n  ;:===  T<f                       -          ;   tt;t  :i t    ;          t    =A
0 j ; < ,/' v ,It, '1 C ;: t1{: |t: l'Ite:- N'
i000   00 :0t:  ,    <                  ,   =  C    0 E \\</=000  2   t0XX /    I (-'C
_~~~~~ ~~                          I              /   F    f03t X   , I                ;     .,     ,t 
tSi'.~~                        ~~ /'0''\ /;S Si X  I>,    Cl     j  03j                 -3 .                 A\.zt'V    C  f;
,5=~~~~~~~~ - -     =                       -t3 'e- =-0  =t    ; * e=  03 'of     0= '-      X      0 
I  I   ,  '  L'.'    ':',4     ''.'. ''- ,   "j'-,   '                 3\ ',           3',               '
iX s'   03   0 z,./<     nb   
>    0             t t                C (             r                                 '  *                m ao~~~~~~30  /  O



