Document of
FILE COPY                      The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1917-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
October 1, 1976
s document has a resticted disribution and may be med by reciplents only In the performance of
g their ofleial duties. Its contents may not oterwise be disclosed without World BDnk uthoration.  |



CURRENCY
US$1                 =           0.787 Kina (K)
K 1                  =           US$1.27
MEASURES
(Metric system used in PNG)
1 meter (m)      2                      3.28 ft.
1 square meter (m )        =           10.76 sq. ft.
1 square kilometer (km2)   =            0.39 sq. mi.
1 hectare (ha)             =            2.47 acres
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1    -    June 30
SCHOOL YEAR
January    -    December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to The Independent State of Papua New Guinea for the equivalent of
US$4.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance the Bank Group's first
education project in Papua New Guinea.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Papua New Guinea in January/February
1976. Its report "Papua New Guinea: Economic Situation and Development
Prospects" (Report No. 1150-PNG) was distributed to the Executive Directors
in July 1976. The following discussion of recent political and economic
developments and an assessment of future prospects are based on this report.
Country data for Papua New Guinea are included in Annex I.
3.        Papua New Guinea achieved internal self-government on December 1,
1973, and independence from Australia on September 16, 1975. The first
event, accompanied by pressure for replacement of Australians in Government
and business by Papua New Guineans (localization), led to an accelerated
departure of expatriates. Realizing the dangers in this situation, the
Government sought to hire key staff directly and began to recruit a number
of expatriates from countries other than Australia. Today, localization is
proceeding as rapidly as possible consistent with the maintenance of stand-
ards for government services. On the political front, the most serious
difficulty was a secessionist movement in Bougainville; however, the tradi-
tional Melanesian reliance on negotiation and conciliation, rather than
confrontation, has led to a satisfactory arrangement which will keep
Bougainville and the earnings from its copper mine in PNG.
4.        PNG's economy has two major elements - a large indigenous sub-
sistence sector based on traditional agriculture and a rapidly expanding
modern "market" sector, accounting for over 70 percent of output and income,
but a minority of the population, with emphasis on mining, export-oriented
plantation agriculture, government operations, and services. Real GDP grew
at more than 8 percent per annum during the period 1967/68 to 1973/74.
This growth was led by the market sector, growing at over 10 percent
Thi documenthaistedduibeionand smybe     d by.pic.nts onlyintheptfof.nnuae
dof their ofca du*   Its contents ay not otherwise be disclsed witbout Wowd ank authouinion.



per annum, while the nonmarket sector grew at less than 1 percent per
annum. As a result, the share in GNP of the traditional subsistence
sector, from which the majority of the local population still derives the
main part of its living, fell from about two-thirds to less than 40 percent.
The growth rate of population is at present about 3 percent per annum, a
sharp increase over the 2 percent per annum rate of ten years ago, due
mainly to a halving of the infant/child mortality rate. Per capita GNP in
1975 was US$450 but this average includes the high income expatriate
sector; the per capita GNP of the local population, representing 98 percent
of the total population, is about US$320; probably 50 percent of the local
population - mainly those in the subsistence sector - have per capita incomes
of about US$130 or less.
5.        The Bougainville copper mine has played an important role in the
country's recent economic achievements. Mining's share in GDP rose from
2 percent in 1968/69 to 32 percent in 1973/74. The impact of Bougainville
on national investment was also large, and during the construction phase,
it accounted for nearly 60 percent of all fixed capital formation in the
country. The impact on exports was first felt in 1971/72, and in the next
two years this one copper mine doubled PNG's export earnings; the growth
of exports from Bougainville has accounted for the bulk of incremental GDP
in the last few years.
6.        Real expenditures by the Government increased at a rate of
close to 7 percent per annum during the past five years. This rise was
mainly caused by a substantial increase in current outlays, dominated by
wages and salaries (45-50 percent of total current expenditures) and the
purchase of goods and services (35-40 percent). Government employment of
staff almost doubled from 1971 to 1975, and simultaneously there were
substantial increases in wage and salary levels. The Government realizes
the great importance of restraining both employment and salary increases,
and has recently taken steps to ensure such restraint.
7.        PNG benefits greatly from Australian assistance, both finan-
cial and technical, although the relative importance of this assistance
is declining. Australian grants provide 43 percent of the 1975/76
budget, a drop from the 70 percent provided in 1963. The commencement of
copper production on Bougainville in 1972 expanded domestic revenues by
about one-third and thus contributed to self-reliance. Under the terms
of the most recent agreement, Australia's aid program for PNG will amount
to approximately A$1 billion (US$1.27 billion) over the next five years.
8.        Expatriates, largely Australians, accounted for about 14 percent
of the Government staff as of July 1, 1975, compared to 20 percent in 1971.
Slightly under half of the expatriates are paid directly by the Australian
Government, which will continue to cover their salaries as part of its aid
package for the next two years. Many other senior administrative and pro-
fessional and higher technical posts are also filled by expatriates.
Consequently, there is a pressing need for local people with comparable
professional skills.



9.        The long run goal of self-reliance has tempered the Government's
approach to foreign investment, which it hopes to attract on a selective
and controlled basis. The National Investment and Development Authority
(NIDA) registers and licenses all foreign enterprises in PNG and coordinates
Government policy. Foreign investment will be sought in those activities
which are desirable for their ability to produce revenue and foreign exchange
and for which the necessary capital or expertise is not available in PNG, but
the investors must agree to meet terms and conditions which assure increasing
local participation.
10.       In the long run, no sector of the economy will have nearly as
large an impact on the pace, directions, and quality of development as the
Central Government. It is by far the largest employer, the largest source
of investment activity, and the largest mobilizer and provider of capital.
Its most crucial task is to set goals, to devise policies and programs, and
to mobilize the resources needed to achieve these goals. PNG has not had a
development plan since the First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/73) and
the Interim Plan for 1973/74, but the philosophy of the present Government
is expressed in the "Eight Aims", which, in addition to growth, stress
equitable distribution of income, increased control of the economy by
Papua New Guineans and decentralization of economic activity. These objec-
tives reflect a shift of emphasis from the First Five-Year Plan, which
concentrated on the build-up of infrastructure and the development of the
modern sector of the economy. However, this new strategy has not yet been
translated into quantitative terms, except in a few sectors, and no attempt
has yet been made to develop a national set of sectoral priorities. The
Central Planning Office is preparing a new development plan which will
incorporate the Eight Aims into a coordinated national framework.
11.       The PNG economy imports a large share of its capital and consumer
goods, including food requirements. Until 1972, the balance of payments
traditionally showed a negative trade balance, with exports dominated by a
few agricultural commodities whose total value covered only about half the
annual imports; the other half was covered by the Australian budget grant.
In April 1972, the Bougainville copper mine came into production. The
1970/71 level of agricultural exports of about US$85 million was suddenly
dwarfed by copper exports of US$206 million in 1971/72, and PNG's tradi-
tionally negative trade balance became positive. However in 1974, copper
prices fell sharply, and copper's contribution to the country's exports
dropped from 70 percent to about 50 percent. Bougainville's impact has
not been large enough to create a favorable balance on the combined goods
and services account (except in 1973/74) and PNG still relies on the
Australian grant to balance its external accounts.
12.       Total external public debt outstanding as of December 31, 1975,
amounted to US$310.8 million, of which US$81.5 million (including US$1.9
million exchange adjustment) was owed to the Bank Group. Public debt service
payments in 1974-75 were about 3 percent of exports of goods and non-
factor services. Debt payments to the Bank Group were only about 13 per-
cent of total debt service payments. Debt service is expected to rise to



-4-
about 4 percent of exports in the early 1980s. In addition, there are
considerable dividend and interest payments abroad mainly as a result of
the Bougainville copper mine. PNG is considered creditworthy for a limited
amount of Bank loans.
13.       In addition to Australia, other bilateral sources (viz. Japan
and New Zealand) are also expected to make aid ftmds available. The Asian
Development Bank lent to PNG from its Special Fund and is expected to
continue lending to PNG in the future.
PART II - BANK-GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea thus far has consisted
of five loans (US$55.5 million) and five development credits (US$25.2 million),
which together have helped to finance nine projects. This assistance has
focused largely on infrastructure development - 86 percent of total Bank
Group assistance has been for power, telecommunications, highways and ports.
Agricultural projects - mainly oil palm and livestock - have absorbed the
remaining 14 percent of Bank Group assistance. IFC has not been involved
in PNG.
15.       Project implementation has been satisfactory, although in some
cases it has been affected by transition to self-government. Disbursements
have sometimes been slow because of administrative procedures requiring
multiple clearances for preparing withdrawal applications. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of August 31, 1976, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       In view of the paucity of infrastructure in PNG in earlier years,
the past emphasis of Bank Group assistance was deemed appropriate as a neces-
sary foundation for future economic development. However, during the next
few years the Bank staff proposes a somewhat different strategy. Infrastruc-
ture projects would continue to be assisted, but to a lesser extent; such
projects would represent about half of the proposed lending program. An
increasing amount of Bank Group financing would be directed towards assisting
agricultural and rural development. These projects would aim at increasing
agricultural production, diversification, and improving indigenous cash and
food cropping methods, and at raising subsistence living standards. Nlany
projects would include components of social and economic infrastructure,
such as education, health and roads.
17.       While the manpower constraint which confronts PNG has been relieved
by the Government's aggressive recruitment of expatriates, skilled PNG tech-
nical and administrative personnel are scarce relative to the need. Conse-
quently, the technical advice and support which Bank staff provide through
project preparation and supervision of ongoing projects will be especially
important.  Also, the Bank stands ready to advise, when asked, on the costs
and benefits of major resource exploitation projects which may compete for
resources with projects aimed directly at improving the welfare of the sub-
sistence sector.



18.       Australia will be PNG's most important aid source for the coming
years. The Bank Group will continue to cooperate closely with the Australian
Government, and will be prepared to consider co-financing of projects should
the Australian and PNG authorities express interest in such arrangements.
PART III: THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
19.       English is the language of instruction for most levels and types
of education and training, a circumstance that will make an important con-
tribution to national unity, but which simultaneously slows learning for
most children, since 97 percent of them speak English only as a second or
third language. A corollary difficulty arises when the student must con-
front sharp cultural differences between familiar village life and a
strange modern society. These differences frequently make the devising of
relevant curricula a difficult task. While these conditions are most acute
at the primary level in rural areas, they also exist at other levels, posing
a challenge to all educators. The education sector will have heavy demands
placed on it in the coming years. According.to the 1971 census, local
personnel represented only 4 percent of the professional labor force and
only 17 percent of the subprofessional labor force. Even in the case of
skilled workers, expatriates accounted for *36.percent of this class of
manpower.
20.       The Department of Education bears the main responsibility for
education, but several other departments provide formal and informal train-
ing within their respective fields. There is considerable local participa-
tion in education administration and curricula. In addition local government
councils and provincial education boards have been allocated certain admin-
istrative and financial responsibilities. Local councils for instance
provide and maintain primary school buildings.
21.       Primary schools (Grades 1-6) are run by the Government and church
agencies. Enrollment reached 244,000 in 1975, representing 69 percent of
males and 44 percent of females in the relevant age groups. The annual
growth of enrollment has averaged less than 3 percent during the last
decade, due primarily to mores which do not encourage female education.
One means of achieving greater female enrollment might be to increase the
number of female teachers; currently, almost 80 percent of primary school
teachers are male. The proportion of students completing primary school
has increased considerably - about 70 percent currently, as contrasted with
about 40 percent in the mid-sixties,. Educational opportunities have in
recent years become more evenly distributed throughout the country but
discrepancies are still considerable.    For example, almost all children
attend school in East New Britain; less than 30 percent do so in the
Highlands.
22.       Enrollment in secondary level education has expanded very rapidly,
by about 11 percent annually in recent years, and stands currently at about
41,500. The 88 high schools, comprising Grades 7-10, enroll some 30,000



- 6 -
pupils. Curricula are generally well balanced, but two difficulties are
evident. First, entry is based on a provincial quota system and while this
is a commendable effort to distribute educational opportunities, it results
in a wide variation in the educational attainment of entrants. Second,
despite the recent origin of the education system, manpower planners esti-
mate that the number of secondary graduates may exceed the absorptive
capacity of the eco omy within a cIcade. Government plans    al tr    some
short-term expansion in secondary education:   34 new high schools before
1980, increasing Grade 7 enrollment from 10,100 to 13,300. This is par-
tially to meet the social demand for secondary education, but primarily to
maintain educational opportunities for the increasing number of Grade 6
leavers. Thereafter, expansion of secondary education would be curbed to
avoid more serious employment problems.    The proposed moratorium is
commendable, but implementation difficulties appear almost inevitable.
23.       Vocational education is provided by a variety of institutions and
programs. Despite these programs, however, shortages of middle-level and
skilled manpower persist. A National Training Council is being established
to coordinate technical tral fnig,    csid-heT     pflp remedy the shortage.
The major training institutions are the 94 rural vocational centers, 9 tech-
nical colleges (Grades 9-10) and various apprentice programs.    The rural
vocational centers have a combined enrollment of about 5,400 primary school
leavers; they offer practical training in agriculture and a variety of
technical skills such as sheetmetal work and carpentry. The curricula
are dictated by local requirements, but as students are expected to estab-
lish themselves, as farmers or artisans, production and management are
always emphasized. Each center is also expected to cover its own operating
costs, excluding instructors' salaries, from the sale of its own production.
At present 56 percent of the staff are expatriates, but local staff,
primarily technicians and agricultural extension staff, are being trained
in a special one-year course at Goroka Teachers College. Experience with
the centers has varied widely; some have been remarkably effective while
others suffer from poor management and inadequate training. The Government
is attempting to improve the standard of the poorer centers.
24.       The country has two universities with a combined total of 2,500
students, but due to the current shortage of high-level manpower in thoff
government and the private sector, a balance between supply and demand of
such personnel is not expected for many years.   The problem is further
compounded by the fact that the early intake to the University of Papua,New
Guinea was heavily geared to the production of generalists.
25.       There are nine primary teacher colleges.   Total enrollment is
about 240 wit     an annual outp-ut-of 900. 2 Only a small proportion of the
trainees are women. The quality of primary teacher training is fair, but
the present high turnover among the 85 percent of the staff who are expa-
triates is a disturbing factor. Moreover, graduates are frequently ill-
prepared to assume teaching positions in areas which are culturally and
linguistically unfamiliar to them; a'revision in recruitment policy for
teacher trainees to address this issue should be examined. Secondary
teacher training is provided by the University of Papua New Guinea in Port



- 7 -
Moresby (degree level) and at Goroka Teachers College (dipoloma level). For
the foreseeable future the small number of degree graduates will be absorbed
by postsecondary institutions and administrative posts.
26.       There are three institutions which train agricultural extension
staff - the Highland Agricultural Training Institute, the Popondetta Agri-
cultural Training Institute, and the Vudal Agricultural College. The first
two provide two-year courses to prepare middle-level field staff, who repre-
sent about 24 percent of the country's total field staff. The latter offers
a three-year course and supplies the most highly trained field staff (about
12 percent of total). The remaining 64 percent field staff are recruited
from primary school leavers who generally receive no formal training in
agriculture. In March 1975, a comprehensive report on agricultural exten-
sion and training proposed a reorganization and simplification of the present
structure introducing a two tier system, by eliminating the lowest level.
Existing staff in the bottom level would either be retired, or upgraded
where possible. This reorganization would require an expansion of the
present middle level personnel. A second recommendation of the report
would be to make field experience a prerequisite for students wishing
to train for the highest level staff categories.
27.       Papua New Guinea has well-developed systems of public health
services and medical training.    Health services are provided by a network of
1,640 aid posts offering first aid and treatment for simple common illnesses,
144 health centers which supervise the aid posts, 217 subcenters and 21
district hospitals. The quality of health training is generally good and
capacities are adequate, especially for nurses. The exceptions are doctors,
health extension officers, and health inspectors. Prospects for improving
health care lie primarily in paramedical fields in which the two Colleges of
Allied Health Sciences have a crucial role to play. The Port Moresby
College is primarily responsible for registered nurse and postbasic training,
while the Madang College accepts students who have completed Grade 10 to
train for health extension _ff    rsE_and health inspectors.   The Madang
College with a current enrollment ofe               ly institution of its kind
in the Pacific. The training is good considering the College's dilapidated
facilities and the recruiting difficulties resulting from low salaries and
lack of staff housing. A high wastage rate, generally 40 percent during the
three years, results from inadequate facilities and also from the high
standards imposed by the institution.
\28.        The University of Technology in Lae will be able to meet the
country's need for higher level scientists and technologists for the
foreseeable future. Seven technical and two secretarial colleges train
skilled workers in addition to a variety of apprenticeship programs.
Middle-level technicians are trained at the Lae and Port Moresby Technical
Colleges, wiTi a      t 7annUaf ouXtt of only f16. The-Port M      1or`e5sycolege
concentrates on the construction industry; Lae offers courses in business
studies, electrical, mechanical and civil engineering, and laboratory
techniques. Recently, a number of programs of nonformal industrial
training have been established by both Government and private employers;
however, they have often been set up in a haphazard and uncoordinated



- 8 -
manner resulting in duplication of expensive facilities, small enrollments
per program and, consequently, excessive costs per trainee. In order to
provide a mechanism for rationalization, the Government plans to set up a
National Training Council that would integrate all nonformal technical
training programs with the formal training conducted in the Technical
Colleges.
29.       Education expenditures have held reasonably constant at about 16
percent of total Government expenditures.    However, within this aggregate
there have been marked shifts among the components. The share of primary
education fell from 46 percent in 1966 to 33 percent in 1972, /1 while expen-
ditures on tertiary education grew from 8 percent to 23 percent of total
education expenditures. This reflects increasing tertiary enrollment and
exceptionally high unit costs of about US$5,700 per student. High unit
costs are a majoru ce of concern for all levels of education in PNG.        In
the primary! a -hbsol, the cost to the Government for one pupil year is K 90
s      - (4USj15)    r 28 perc   t of the per capita GNP.  An important factor in these
high costs          arge proportion of expatriate teachers.   Serious efforts
should be made to reduce these costs by accelerated localization of teachers,
i? \J t    rationalization of the complex system of post secondary education, and
R)lt4<k   larger class sizes.
30.       To summarize some of the main points discussed above, Papua
'U      New Guinea has achieved a well-developed education system in many respects:
virtually all children may have access to primary schools within two
decades; local participation in school administration is strong at all
levels; quality is generally high; and attention is given to relevance
of content and to e'qualization of opportunities. The main issues that
should be addressed\by the Government are:
(a) educational opportunities are unequally distributed in
three respects: by geographic location, age and sex.
The Government has accorded high priority to the equali-
zation of opportunities by region but has neglected
f    3b--      disparities by age and sex.   Efforts within rural devel-
opment, adult and out-of-school education are poorly
coordinated and receive low priority in financial allo-
cations.  A large portion of girls (56 percent) do not
attend primary schools, a fact which is due more to
parental attitudes than lack of schools;
->  (b)  the system of post secondary education is overly complex
) LC4.A/ Xwith a proliferation of small scale training programs
and alternate entry routes.   The Government should
rationalize the system by consolidating and standard-
@,                   izing teaching programs;
'   /1  A comparison with more recent years is not possible since data before and
-    after 1972 are not strictly comparable.



-9-
(c) another area of major concern is the high recurrent
costs per student at all levels of education. Increased
localization, fewer institutions and larger class sizes
will eventually reduce costs.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
31.       The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first operation
in the education sector in PNG. It comprises assistance to five separate
institutions: the Highlands Agricultural Training Institute, the College
of Allied Health Sciences at Madang, the Primary Teachers College at
Madang, the Secondary Teachers College at Goroka and Lae Technical College.
The project would also strengthen five Rural Vocational Centers. These
institutions have been selected for assistance because of their potential
to redress some of PNG's most pressing manpower needs - those in agricul-
ture, health, teaching and industry. Moreover, the expanded output of
these categories of personnel will permit a greater degree of localization
in a number of fields but especially secondary teaching and middle-level
technical personnel. In addition, the project would support planning and
studies essential to the long-range development of education and training
in PNG. The project includes a total of 21-1/2 man-years of specialist
services and 9-1/2 man-years of fellowships for staff and curriculum
development, experiments and studies.   The project was appraised in February
1976. Credit negotiations were held in Washington in September 1976; PNG's
delegation was led by Ken Woodward, Assistant Secretary for Finance. A
credit and project summary is included as Annex III. The Appraisal Report
dated September 22, 1976, Report No. 1210-PNG has been circulated separately.
The following table summarizes the project components:
Present       Additional provision
enrollment   Student   Boarding  Staff
Project Component                 Grades    capacity    places    places    houses
Rural-oriented training
(a) Hig,hland Agricultural
Training Institute, DOPI      11-12        60         140      140        28
(b) College of Allied Health
Sciences, Madang, DOPH        11-13       120          45       64        12
(c) Five Rural Vocational
Centers, DOE                   (7)        300         -        -          -
Teacher training
(d) Madang Teachers College
(Primary), DOE                11-12       300         140     140          5
(e) Goroka Teachers College
(Secondary), (UPNG), DOE      11-13       430         200     180         16
Technician training
(f) Lae Technical
College, DOE                  11+         170         175        0         8



- 10 -
32.       Highlands Agricultural Training Institute (HATI) - (Estimated Cost
US$750,000). With the objective of upgrading the training of extension
agents, the proposed project would expand the capacity of HATI from 60 to
200 student places. It would finance student and teacher accommodation, a
community hall and minor expansions to teaching areas. With the expanded
student aaccommuiodation, the College could admit female trainees for the first
time.  This is essential as farming is mostly done by women.    Economies of
O scale would reduce unit recurrent costs by about 40 percent from K 5,900
(US$7,500) to about K 3,100 (US$3,900).   Staff localization will in due
/ course lead to further reductions. The College is adequately equipped and
,,8 the quality of the training is good. Training concentrates on smallholder
>9 m    and subsistance agriculture but also includes plantation agriculture.    An
important part of the curriculum is training in rural development work,
emphasizing problem identification, planning, de5ision-making and resource
mobilization. Under the proposed project a home economics course for men
and women would be introduced, for which FAO is providing technical assis-
tance. Because of the large amount of practical and individual instruction
a student/staff ratio of about 12 would be necessary.
33.       A consequence of the proposed expansion of HATI would be that
practical training now being provided to Vudal College trainees at a
field camp next to HATI would have to be relocated.    A further consequence
of the proposed project would be that the output of certificate holders
would cause some reduction in the need for higher-level diploma holders.
Thus, diploma training would have to be restructured into a one-year post
certificate program as proposed by a recent report on Agricultural Training.
The Government has already initiated action on both of these measures.
34.       College of Allied Health Sciences, Madang (Estimated Cost
US$970,000). The proposed project would strengthen the present train-
ing program and increase the enrollment capacity of this College from 120
to 165 places. The project would finance construction and remodeling of
an administrative building cum library, classrooms, audiovisual building,
student accommodation and staff housing; training equipment and materials;
and three man-years of advisory services, three and a half man-years of
foreign and six man-years of local fellowships for curriculum improvement
and staff development. At the present time, the College is understaffed
partly due to low teaching salaries. The Government has undertaken to
expand the number of teaching posts - an increase from the present level of
19 to about 30 is considered appropriate - (including Kainantu, Okapa and
Bogia Community Health Practice Centers) and to increase teachers' salaries
to levels comparable to those of teachers in other educational establishments.
(See draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03(a].)
35.       Rural Vocational Centers (Estimated cost US$250,000).    The pro-
posed project would provide three man-years of technical assistance, addi-
tional equipment and travelling costs for experimental programs at five
of the country's 94 rural vocational centers. The purpose of this assistance
would be to seek improved effectiveness of the other centers, including
improved coordination of the various Government agencies concerned with



- 11 -
rural development. On an experimental basis the five centers would intro-
duce adult education courses and assume responsibility for supervising the
other centers in their respective regions. Additional training would be
provided to the best vocational trainees to create a core of particularly
skilled farmers and craftsmen. The five chosen centers would supply tools
and equipment to other nearby vocational centers as needed and assist in
organizing an effective program of follow-up support for trainees who have
returned to their communities. The project would bring in rural adults who
are now excluded from skill training and who sometimes resist innovation
by younger personnel trained in the centers. The project would be eval-
uated for possible replication at other centers.
36.       Primary Teacher Training (Estimated Cost US$630,000).    The
proposed project would expand the Madang Teachers College from 296 to 440
places, increasing the country's total primary teacher training capacity
from 2,400 to 2,540, and would help to increase the supply of teachers in
areas where enrollment ratios are particularly low. The project would
finance student accommodation (two thirds of which would be for female
students), staff housing, a library, and additional equipment furniture and
books. Modifications to existing buildings would permit larger classrooms
which, in turn, would reduce recurrent costs. The college would be able to
provide good quality training at a student/ teacher ratio of about 17,
higher than the present norm in PNG of about 15. Because present enroll-
ment patterns favour males and applicants from the more developed areas,
recruitment policies would be revised in an attempt to redress these
biases. (See draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03[b].)
37.       Secondary Teacher Training (Estimated cost US$1.2 million).    The
project would finance an expansion of Goroka Teachers College by 200 places
from 430 to 630 places and introduce a one-year course to train primary
school teachers as secondary level instructors. It would provide boarding
facilities, staff housing, a-multipurpose building, library books and some
equipment. While the present quality of the training is good, certain
diseconomies are evident. Courses are organized with free subject options
which has led to small class sizes, and less desirable subject combinations.
A reorganization of the curriculum to a fixed subjectf combination system
would resolve these problems and enable an increase in the student/teacher
ratio from 11 to 15, thus reducing unit costs which are high at K 2,800
(US$3,500) per annum. A major issue in secondary education is the locali-
zation of the secondary teaching force as rapidly as possible without undue
lowering of standards. Currently, 66 percent of secondary school teachers
are expatriates. Without any new initiatives, localization would not be
complete before 1990 and 6,000 man-years of expatriate services. A prin-
cipal objective of this project item would be to replace expatriate teachers.
This would reduce staff turnover and allow considerable foreign exchange
savings. Moreover, the lower salaries which local teachers would receive
would more than cover the required investment within a decade. One means of
achieving some immediate localization of secondary school teachers would be
to introduce a course to convert local primary school teachers into secondary
level teachers. The College's intention to begin such a course by January
1977 was confirmed.   (See draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.04.)



- 12 -
38.       Once the secondary teaching force is localized, it seems likely
that there will be excess capacity for training secondary teachers, since
Government policy is to limit the growth of enrollment in secondary level
education after about 1980. This reflects a temporary disequilibrium in
the economy which is not expected to generate a sufficient number of jobs
in the next decade to absorb an unchecked expansion of secondary school
leavers. Although Government recognizes that a continued increase in
secondary education would have a significant benefit in increasing national
unity, resource constraints dictate that further expansion can be only
slightly beyond the employment generating capacity of the economy. There
would be no difficulty in using the available excess capacity at Goroka for
other purposes, such as primary teacher training. However, it is too early
to determine what will be the best use of this capacity in 10 years' time
and thus any definite proposals would be premature at the present time.
39.       Technical Training-Lae Technical College (Estimated Cost
US$1.5 million). The project would provide a new laboratory block, staff
housing, workshop, laboratory equipment and library books. Eight man-years
of specialist services would be included for installing and commissioning
the equipment and for introducing improved curricula and teaching methods in
building, electrical, mechanical and civil engineering. This expansion
would supply the increasing demand for middle-level technicians in industry,
commerce and government. The total yearly output of technicians would be
increased from the present level of 135 to 210 by 1980. Building certifi-
cate courses would be relocated from Port Moresby Technical College to Lae,
with the freed capacity used to train additional skilled workers. Total
enrollment at Lae would be increased to about 900 students compared with 585
at present.
40.       Integrated Rural Development Study (Estimated Cost US$160,000).
The project would finance a preinvestment study of rural development and
training potential. It would identify a strategy for reorganizing and
integrating the existing community-based training programs and Government
services. The study would be part of a wider review of the Government's
emerging development strategy. The Central Planning Office is preparing
a five-year plan for national development whose main emphasis is likely to
be rural development, and the proposed study would therefore form an
essential element. Finance would be for a total of three man-years by a
rural development economist and an educator, with terms of reference accept-
able to the Association. (See draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.02[c].)
41.       Policy and Planning Division, Department of Education (Estimated
Cost US$190,000). This item includes 2-1/2 man-years of technical assistance,
firstly to introduce more coherent physical facility planning in PNG, focusing
on the provincial level where more active and systematic approaches are needed,
and secondly to undertake a mid-term review of the 1975-80 Education Plan to
assess policy decisions and progress made within the education sector since
1975. This assistance should contribute to the preparation of the next
education plan and help identify priority areas for future investments and
would be coordinated with the Integrated Rural Development Study.



- 13 -
42.       National Training Council (Estimated Cost US$110,000).   The Govern-
ment is planning to enact a new Industrial Training Act, with a view toward
rationalizing existing training programs, and creating incentives to employers
to increase their involvement in the apprenticeship scheme. This Act would
replace three existing pieces of legislation and set up a National Training
Council. Moreover, it would establish a system of levies and grants which
would distribute the cost of training more equitably among employers. To
assist the Government in achieving these objectives, the project would
finance two man-years of technical assistance for an Industrial Training
Adviser. The Government would collaborate with the Association on implement-
ing the consultant's recommendations for establishing a National Training
Council which would assume responsibility for all nonformal technical train-
ing programs and integrate them with the formal training conducted by the
Technical Colleges. (See draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.05.)
43.       The efficiency of educational institutions in PNG should be mon-
itored with a view toward adjusting curricula as and when required.   However
at present, resource constraints dictate that this work should be confined
to easily available throughput statistics and essential tracer studies
which have implications for other training programs. The Government would
monitor the number of applicants, acceptances, and enrollment of project
assisted institutions and provide the Association with annual summaries of
its findings for three years beyond the completion of project implementation
and would carry out tracer studies for paramedical training and the rural
vocational centers. (See draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02.)
Project Costs
44.       Total project costs, including contingencies are estimated at
US$7 (  illion, with a foreign exchange component of US$4.2 million or
58 percent. Costs have been estimated on the basis of prices prevailing
in early 1976. The average unit cost of buildings, deriied from recent
costs of siiilar facilities in PNG, varies from US$175/m for classrooms
to US$250/m for laboratories. This is somewhat higher than costs in neigh-
boring countries due to the high proportion (about 60 percent) of building
materials which have to be imported.
45.       Utilization of classrooms, workshops and laboratories of the
project institutions range from 70 percent to 90 percent based on 35-45
week teaching periods. Equipment costs appear reasonable; they have been
estimated on the basis of preliminary lists as reviewed during appraisal.
Technical assistance costs have been estimated on the basis of US$55,000
per man-year (all costs included) for expert services and US$12,000 for
fellowships.
46.       Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10 percent for site
development and 5 percent for construction, furniture, equipment and tech-
nical assistance. Price contingencies have been estimated as follows: for
civil works, furniture and engineering, 13 percent in 1976 and 12 percent



- 14 -
in 1977-79; for equipment 9 percent in 1976 and 8 percent in 1977-79; and
for technical assistance 7 percent in 1976, declining to 5 percent in 1979.
Price contingencies constitute 23 percent of base costs. The comparatively
low figure results from the project's already advanced stage of implementa-
tion - architectural designs are complete and all physical facilities
should be completed within two years of credit signing.
Financing Plan
47.       The IDA credit of US$4.0 million would finance 95 percent of
total foreign exchange costs, or 56 percent of total project costs, with
the Government providing the remaining funds.
48.       The project implies incremental recurrent costs for the three
Government departments concerned: US$1.3 million for the Department of
Education; US$0.5 million-for the Department of Primary Industries; and
US$0.1 for the Department of Public Health. This represents a modest
2.4 percent, 1.6 percent and 0.3 percent respectively of these departments'
1975 recurrent budgets; moreover the figures may even be somewhat overstated
since they do not include possible savings from localization of training
staff. However, the increased salaries which graduates of project assisted
institutions will command would be substantial. The qualified agricultural
extension agent would draw a salary 30 percent higher than that of the
untrained person he would replace. This, together with the projected growth
of extension staff, would raise the cost for agricultural extension staff
from about K 4.8 million ($6.1 million) in 1975 to about K 7.1 million
($9.0 million) in 1985 (in 1975 prices). This corresponds to an increase
of expenditures for extension services of 5 percent per annum.
Procurement
49.       Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of local
procedures satisfactory to the Association. Contracts for certain civil
works for the Highlands Agricultural Training Institute and for Lae Tech-
nical College costing less than $65,000 each, but not more than $275,000 in
aggregate would.be procured on the basis of negotiated contracts. Part of
the civil works required for the Highlands Agricultural Training Institute,
the College of Allied Health Sciences and Lae Technical College not exceeding
an aggregate amount of $250,000 may be carried out by force account.
Contracts for other civil works and furniture would be awarded using local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association. Local
competitive bidding is justified in view of the small size of individual
contracts and the geographic dispersion of contract sites. Prior approval
by the Association would be required for all civil works contracts valued at
more than US$200,000. Since some construction is expected to commence prior
to credit signing, retroactive financing of expenditures after May 1, 1976
up to US$200,000 is recommended. (See draft Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 3, Part D.1, and Schedule 1, paragraph 4 respectively.)



- 15 -
50.       Equipment contracts exceeding US$50,000 would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding. In accordance with Bank Group
guidelines, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of
15 percent or the existing customs duty, whichever is the lower, over the
c.i.f. price of competing imports. Direct Government imports are exempt from
customs duties and taxes. Equipment which cannot reasonably be grouped to
form contracts for at least US$50,000 equivalent could be awarded without
prior Bank approval on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
following procedures satisfactory to the Association. Books (total esti-
mated cost US$150,000) would be purchased from authorized distributors. In
addition, off-the-shelf items, not exceeding US$10,000 in each contract and
aggregating a maximum of US$100,000 equivalent, could be purchased on the
basis of a minimum of three price quotations. (See draft Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 3, Part B.)
Disbursement
51.       The proposed credit would be disbursed over four and one half years
and would finance 100 percent of the c.i.f. costs of directly imported equip-
ment, 100 percent of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment,
and 100 percent of technical assistance; 70 percent of the cost of locally
procured imported equipment; and 40 percent of civil works, of furniture and
of professional services.
Implementation
52.       The multiplicity of Government agencies and departments involved
in implementing the project suggests the need for a central coordinating
unit. A Project Management Committee will be established to oversee and
guide the implementation of the project. This Committee will include the
Secretaries for Education (Chairman); Finance; Transport Works and Supply;
Primary Industry; and Health; and the Chancellor of the University of PNG.
Already established in the Department for Finance is an Office of Project
Coordination to supervise all externally financed projects. The Office of
Project Coordination under the supervision of a Project Coordinator would be
responsible to the Project Management Committee for administrative, finan-
cial and technical supervision. An Education Project Manager specifically
responsible for coordinating the implementation of the proposed project has
been assigned to this Office. He would supervise the preparation of tender
documents for civil works and equipment, the compilation of master lists for
equipment and furniture, the execution of construction and the procurement
and installation of equipment. Moreover he would have overall responsi-
bility for financial coordination. He would be assisted in these functions
by a senior architect and a procurement officer. Each of the line depart-
ments involved in the project has appointed staff to oversee the execution
of the respective components; these coordinators would report to their own
departmental supervisors and liaise with the Education Project Manager.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Association would
be consulted in any future appointment to the position of Education Project
Manager (see draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.08).



- 16 -
53.       Design, tendering and supervision of all project items, except
Goroka Teachers College would be undertaken by the Department of Transport,
Works, and Supply. The construction unit of the University of Papua New
Guinea would be responsible for the Goroka component. The necessary funds
would be made available to the University as a grant.
54.       The Department of Transport, Works, and Supply has prepared
architectural drawings for all components, except Goroka Secondary Teachers
College. However, the Department's staff constraints may lead to the
Government's using consultants for detailed engineering and specifications
for structural, electrical and mechanical works. An adequate number of
qualified firms are available in the country. Suitable sites are available
for all project items. All land required for the project has already
been acquired. Evidence to this effect, with the exception of land for
staff housing at the College of Allied Health Sciences (Madang), was
supplied during negotiations. The remaining evidence will be supplied to
the Association in accordance with Section 3.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement.
Justification and Risks
55.       One of the most difficult problems facing Papua New Guinea, like
many newly independent countries, is the provision of adequate manpower,
crucial to economic growth and development. The proposed project would
provide financing to a number of institutions chosen because of their
ability to provide the country with an increase in trained manpower in
key areas. The project provides for relatively modest physical facilities,
as one of its major aims is to rationalize the system of education in
several important fields, leading to significant savings in unit costs
and increases in student/teacher ratios. The expanded manpower will
be quickly absorbed into the workforce, either in filling currently unmet
needs, or in replacing expatriate workers.
56.       At the middle and upper levels, the economy still relies heavily
on expatriate personnel. While these personnel are providing the country
with excellent services in most cases, localization is desirable and has
been given priority by the Government. This reflects not only national
pride and the desire for self-reliance, but also an awareness of the high
salaries required to maintain competent expatriates. Moreover, expatriates
wages have at least two foreign exchange implications. First, expatriate
consumption is more heavily weighted toward imports than is the local
consumption pattern; and second, expatriates are likely to repatriate a
portion of their earnings. Localization is particularly important in the
case of middle-level technicians (Lae Technical College component) and in
the secondary teaching force (Goroka Teachers College component). In the
case of the latter, the expansion of Goroka Teachers College would enable
the replacement of about 1,000 expatriates with local-ly trained indigenous
teachers before 1986. Between 1977 and 1986, the expansion would save
about 1,800 man-years of expatriate services and differential salary cost
of about K 14 million (US$17.8 million), or twelve times the required capital
investment of K 1.2 million (US$1.5 million).



- 17 -
57.       Rural development and improved standards of living for the 70
percent of the population still in the subsistence sector is a crucial
development objective of the Government and a major focus of the proposed
project. The expansion of the Highlands Agricultural Training Institute
would enable the Government to upgrade significantly the quality of its
agricultural extension service, increasing the proportion of properly
trained extension agents from 20 percent to 50 percent by 1985, while
maintaining the level of staffing at one agent per 135 farm families.
Moreover, due to economies of scale the recurrent cost per student at
HATI would fall by nearly 50 percent from K 5,900 (US$7,500) to K 3,100
(US$3,900) per annum (in 1976 prices). The delivery of improved health care
to rural areas is basic to improved living standards. For Papua New Guinea
the least cost approach is an increase in paramedical personnel which will
allow the most economical use of scarce doctors and nurses. With the
expansion of the Madang College of Allied Health Sciences, the full demand
for health inspectors and two-thirds of the demand for health extension
officers will be generated locally by 1986. Moreover, economies of scale
resulting from the expansion would reduce recurrent costs per student by
about 23 percent from K 3,250 (US$4,100) to K 2,500 (US$3,200) per annum.
58.       Providing rural areas with educational opportunities - both basic
and vocational - is an important vehicle for bringing the rural population
into the modern monetized economy. The Madang Teachers College component
would increase the supply of primary school teachers to the least developed
areas of the country and technical assistance to the Department of Education
would help improve the distribution of school facilities. The study on
Integrated Rural Development and Community-Based Training would assist the
formulation of a national development policy with proposals for coordinating
Government services and rural training. The Rural Vocational Center component
would on a limited scale coordinate the efforts of several agencies in order
to bring in adults to short courses at five experimental centers, and in the
longer term suggest ways of improving and strengthening other vocational
centers.
59.       Female education would be promoted specifically by two project
components. Two thirds of the expansion of Madang Teachers College would
be for female trainees. The Highlands Agricultural Training Institute would
begin to train female extension workers which is important since farming is
done mostly by women. Moreover the Government would revise its selec-
tion procedures to increase the representation of female trainees in
other colleges.
60.       Risks associated with the project are considered minimal; they
are primarily financial and administrative.   In late 1975, the Government's
budget position forced it to freeze 1976 recurrent funds, although salary
increases of about 10 percent also had to be met. Some project institutions
would be unable to accommodate another reduction of this magnitude without
postponing proposed expansion. The increased number of graduates under the
project implies a higher salary bill. However this additional cost is offset
by the savings from the localization process and the benefits of improved



- 18 -
services. Finally, the secondary teacher training component is designed for
a rapid localization of staff and, in consequence, training capacity would
be developed in excess of needs for normal growth and wastage. There is a
risk that the excess secondary teacher training capacity available after
1985 may not be diverted to other uses as planned, but used as an argument
for expanding secondary education beyond present plans. However, the project
addresses priority issues and the Government is well aware of the risks and
constraints associated with the proposed project.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between The Independent
State of Papua New Guinea and the Association, the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
62.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in paragraphs 34, 36, 37, 40, 42, 43, 49, 50, and 52 of
this Report.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by David A. Knox
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 1, 1976



TABLE 3A                                           ANNEX I
PAPUA AND NEW GUIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page 1 of L pages
LAND AREA ITHOU KM42)                   ----------
---------------                       ~~~~PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA               REFERENCE COUINTRIES (19701
TO TAL      415.'.                                        MOST RECENT
AGPIC.         0.0                        1960       1970    ESTIM4ATE          LIBERIA         IVORY COAST    TRINIOAO AND ToLago"'
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       160.0      310.0      450.0               290.0        340.0      1180.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MIO-YR, MILLIONI               1.9        2.5        2.7                  1.3         5.4         1.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PE- SOUAP 7 KM.                          4.0        5.0        6.0                12.0         16.0       200.0
PE.K SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND            4.I73.0
VITAL STATISTICS
AVERAGE AIRTH RATE (/THCUI              i4b.1,     L3. 1      1o.6                42.8        46.1         32.5
AVEPAGE nEATH RATE 4 /THOU)             25.5       20. 2      17.1                23.5        23.3          7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)             .           .         .                137.3          ..         34.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRSI          38.6       45.1       47.7                41.0         41.0        67.8
GRPOSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  .         2.9        2.9                 2.6          3.1         2.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (R
TOTAL                                    2.7        2.6        2.0                 3.3/a        31.4 /a     2.1 /e
URBAN                                     .           .       16.7                   ..8.T Z
URBAN POPULATION (I OR TOTAL)               ..        6.0       11.014              26.2         28.0        12.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENiTi
0 TO 14 YEARS                         40.5        42.8 ~a    45.2 /a             40.7        42.5         41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                         5.          56.2a      53. 37e.            56.0        54.8         54.8
65 YFARS AND OVER                        2.9        1 .0 7     1.57a               3.3          2.7         4.0
AGE LEPENDENCY RATIO                       0.8        0.8/       0.q9.               0.8          0.8         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                'L08/        0.8/        ...oA                           0.-~         1.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)              .           .         .                    ..                    25.4
USERS It OF MAPRIED WOMEN)                 ...                  .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            1040.0     1260:0~ /a                      580.0      2600.0        350.0 L
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (2)            89.0       82.0         ..                 2.1         82.0        22.0
UNEMPLOYED it OF LABOR FORCE)               ...                    .20.0/c                        6.0        12.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST   5X OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         .           .61.7/4
HIGHEST 20l OR HOUSEHOLDS                 ..         .          .                  2.67
LOWEST   201 OF HOtUSEHOLDS                                                        5.3.
LOWEST   401 OR HOUSEHOLDS                .           .         .                 10.9~
DISIRIBUTIOMN Of LAND OWNERSHIP
I OWNED BY TOP 102 OF OWNERS                .           ..
I OWNFD BY SMALLEST 102 OWNERS              .           ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
PCPULATION PER PI{YSICIAN             14 390.0/4b 11630.0    11130.00/           1,0450.0    12140.0       2320.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSO3N         2450 07Ej, 2370.       180.   /            41 40.0     2480.0/4.     360.0/(b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED              170.    ~ 1500        150.                530.0       680.0Ld      230.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (2 DR REQUIREMENTS)               .         ..         .                 88.0       108.0         97.0
PROTEIN IGRAMS PER DAY)                   ..         .           .36.0                        60.0         64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..          .           .10.016                      18.Oj        34.0/4
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGeS 1-4                 ..         .           ..                               .1.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         BB.0d-62/d 66:0/b-68/b   .                 43.0         76.0       1100.0/d
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       ""OdIL          &6       ..12.0                        11.0Of       40.
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PRCVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                10.0       10.0       10.0                12.0        13 .0        1S.0G'
VOCATIOINAL ENROLLMENT
I: CF SECONDARY)                        17.0       19.0       1S. 0/4              5.0         7.0          8.0/0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (21)                     .                  3I.0O4              15.0         20.0        88.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                 0.7/.        .         .
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (2)                            .         .           .                               .         8./
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OR ALL DWELLINGS)                   80.0           .                              ..                    66.0/f
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (UIt).                                           .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)              ..         .           .1320                         17.0       276.0
PASSENGERt CARS (PER THOU POP)             2.0         .0        7.0                 11.00       10.0        75.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PEP CAP)              30.0       64.0      356.0               330.0        120.0      1173.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                   ..        0.1        0.2                  0.1         0.2          5.5
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITICKS CN REVERSE



Page 2 of 4. pages
Unless other-sie noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, end for Most Recent E3timate between
1973 and 1975.
*'Trinidad and Tobago has bee. Selected as an objective euntrv because both co.tslree are savll Island nations and alec both COUntr-feS recenItlY
became Independent. The wast majority of people in each country are dependent on agriculture for their livelihwod, and both cowotries poSsess
significant agricultural potential.
PAPUA NEIW GUIEA        1960    A5  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 aod o'er to total labor force;      /b 1964.;     Lg  Including aesistant nurses;
7-  Papua and New Cuinea respectivelyl      /a  Total, urban and rural.
1970    /a  1966;     A   Papua and Rev Oaines respectively.
MOST RECEWT PSTD4TE,      la  19711    A   1972.
LIBERIA                 1970    /a  G.e to Immigration, growth rate is higher than the rate of natural increase;      /b   Ratlo of population under 15
and 65 and over to total labor force;     /c  Unemployed and partially employed; -      I  Population;   /e  1961.-66.
VORY COAST              1970    A   Due to tamigration, growth rate is higher than the rate of natural increase;       /   1965-70;        Ratio of popula-
tio  under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;      /d  Govermoent only;    /.  196l-66;     J   12-18 years of
age.
TRINIDAD AND TOAO       1970    /a  15-61. years of age;    /b  Icluding midwives;     /c   1964.66;    /d   5-11 years of age;     /.   Government main-
talned and aided schoole only;     Ja  1966;    IS   rnside only.
R6, October 5, 1976
DEFINITIONS OP SOC:AL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou On'7                                          Population oar murs~~~ino  eaoo  - Population divided by fluster of pr...tia-
Total   T.tota  surface area comprising lend ares and inland vaters.                     nnleademegrute                uss,tand"o           'ctied      nrs,
\ortc.-  Most recent eatima te of agricultural area used temporarily or                 and auxiliary personnel with training or ellperience.
permanently for crops, pa3turso, market & kitthen gardens or to lie fallon,.        Population Per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital
bes  vetlele in public and private general and specialized hoopital
GNP par capit. (US$) - GNP par capita eoLadtimte  at current mArket prices,             and rehabilitation centersl excludes nursing hones and establishosents
calclate  bysameconvrsin mehodas Wrld  ankAtla  (193-7  ass);for custodial and preventive care.
1c60,cul aned   197  data.esinmto a         wdSnkAl           1737   el)            Per capita supply of calories (% of requirmvents) - Computed from energy
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                      ~~~~~~~~equivalent of cat food supplies available in country per capita per
Ppoplation -nd vita1 statistica                                                         day; available soppliea comprise dOmestic Moduction, imports lenss
Posolatfon (,id-yr. millionl - As of july first,    If a.ct available,                  exports, ankd changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,
average of two sod-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and'1975 dare.                          quantities used in food processing and losses in distribution; re-
quirements wore estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for
Population density - pet ansare h - Mid-year population per square kilo-                normal activity and health conidering environmental tem~perature,
meter (100 hectaree) of total area.                                                   bod  weighta, age and sac distributions of population, and allowing
PsoaI,lmto  demIlty - par asuer. he of seri. land - Computed as above for               10%  or waste at household level.
aericultural land only.                                                             Pe   aiaspl        fpretain    crms   or da .   Protein content of per
capit   n~t supplyp of fodpr     a   iiap       of fond is defined as
VItal stoticics.                                                                        above; requirecenta for anl coutrion establ-ished by USIA Economic
Crode birth rate per rhousand - Annua lire births per thosend of eid-                   Raeearch Services progJde for a minimum allowance of 60 groom   of total
year popolatton; ten-year arithmetic averages Boding in 1960 and 1970,                p-a Lai per day, and 2U grass of nanial and pUbs. u-ut-s, ul Mn.2O-0O
and five-year ov-rege andi.g L. 1975 for mast recant eatinate.                        grooms should be a-ls,l p'otmin; these standards as's lower than tames
Crude death rate par thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                  of 75 gramfs of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an aver-
popuatio; te-yea  arihmetc avrage  endng i  196  and1970  endage for the     world, proposed by FAD in the Third World Food Survey.
fiv       -year avrg rmItmg  ti97  foer mostdu rec nt 16 esiate.  190   dPer cita               rtei   supsly frmaniaed cube - Protein supply of food
Infant mortality rate f/thou) - Anmsal deaths of infamts under one year 5f              deieTrmasiasad              lesai grams per day.
age per thossemd live birtba.                                                      1Deathrth            Zta_l_L5p. -Sg L.d - Annual deaths per thousand In age group
Life aeaect.ncv at birth (yrsl - Average number af years of life remaiing               I:Z  7   childrt      n-in this age group; suggested as an indicator
at birth; usually fie-year average. ending in 1960, 1970 ond 1975 f or                of malnutrition.
developing countries.
Gress rep,roduction rate - Average number of live doeghtera a wassam will             Education
bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences pre.net age-                                  ra. -o Mn tio  mar  scehool - Enrollment of all ages as
specific fertility raiese; "usualy five-year averaese ending is 1960,                            ilphL         olaepwain            inci,Asds children aged
1970 and 19~71 for developing asurs.6-1                                                    years but adjusted for different lenlgths Of Primary education;
Popul..ato  eroth rter   I- total _ Cenpoond annual growth rates of mid-                for countries with universal education, enrollment naY eaceed 100%
yer  .opuainfredW7-5                                                             sincea some pupils are below or above tim officia  school age.
F, ye.19060r96-0.Llutd                                                                     nollen    rtio - secondary school - Computed as above; mac-
population row    rate 1%; - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                 onayeuainrqie              tleast foor years of approved primary
population   difrent deflnitiono of urban area     may affect compare-                instruction; provides general, vocational or teacher training instruc-
bulity of data among countries.                                                       tions for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correpondence courses are
UTrban  opul-atlon (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; dif-geralexud.
7"eit efinitions of urban areas may affect compaability of data                     Terars o      xchlune  rid. d(is     n    eodlve      .-Ttlyaso
among conutrias.                                                                    Yashoflng atho   seon'dary      rI   nda'I n level,soaina nto lion talyhepartsall
struture       ercent) - Children (0-14. years). warking-age (15-64. years),          orchomletel    excludetonmyd.                                   arial
(5years and Over) as percentages of mid-year population.              Vocational enrollment (8 of-secondazy) - Vocational instituctiosn include
Agp2 Agednyrto-        Rai    fpplto         neBi     n   5adoe       etchnical, indstriail or other programs which operate independently
EcT,liilfdgenWhcuh61.or as depatments of secondary institutions.
Ec mc depnecy ratio - Ratio of populecion under 15 and 65 and Over             Autlerorae(I-itert                  adults (ebbe to read and write) as
to  he abo  foce  n age group Of 15-61. years.                                        o   n    Ztlautpplto              gd3     er    n   vr
Famil planning - eccaptora uconlative. thou) .- Cunula tive number ofpecnaeototadl                                  ouainagd1yaradov.
ascptora of birth-control cdevices under auspices of national fanilyHosn
Planning program since inception.                                                                               -Average numfber of persoms per room in oc-
FamilY Plannin   - users (% of married women) - Percentages of married                Pi~era on Pei   ionom   dwvelling - in urban aress; dwellings exclude non-
women of child-bearing age (15-441 yerars  who use bir-th-control de-                 cpierma  onventistuctre dalnd ancuidprs
vices to all married women in same age group.                                         prcupied dwrellin  es withouft ep ed w arter s).Ocpedcnetoa
delnsiurba  a       .ua  areas without Inside or outside piped
Ml=t                                                               -t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wae  facilities as pecentage of all occupied dwellings.
Totai lbOr furce     (thoss~usand) - Economically eztive porsons, including           Acestalectricit        1%ofal d&wellinyo) - Conventional dwellings
6id4r            .I~d         u   xldn       oseie,suet,etc.;                         wiLth eletricity iln livig uquarter   spercent of total dwellings
deorfinitins in various countries are not comparable.inubnadralres
lbrfrein agriculture ()-Agricultural labor force (ini farming,                    in uraAn  ando rural areas.tL                 -Coutdasaov         o
try                                                                                                  _J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ua  wlig  cnetdt  lctiiy()-Cmptda  bv  o
foresty   hunting end fishing) AB percentage of total labor force.                       radwlngeny
Unamlove  N  f laor fce)- Unemployed are usual3y defined as persons
whno are aSIO adn willing to talce B.job, sout of a job onma given day,              Consumption
remained cut of a job, and seeking sos-k for a specified minimum                    Radio ree~r. (nor thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
period niot exceeding non week; may mat he compaable betwee~n coun-                    casts to guneral public per whousen d of population; excludes unli-
tries due to different definitions of unemplO,yed end source of data,                 censed receiesin countries and in years kAn registration or radio
e.g., employment office tattistics, samepe surveys, compulsory uneml                  sets was in effect; data for recant yearsnmay not be comparable since
plOYmsent iwuorance.                                                                   mast countries abolished licensing.
income ditrrbutian - Percentage of private incme (beth in cash and kind)                esnm      orAPTtu.2)-asngrcscmpie                        oorassa-
rcie by richest SI, richest 20%  peroret 2UX   ed pwoorst 40R of                8Zagfaatha        gt persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and s,ili-
houoeha1da.                                                                            tory vehicles.                 na     cnupino         dtrl,om
EectrIg4ty_Ckh/f ..0gc3) -Ana          osmto       fidsra,cm
Distribution   fln.      wasi ofof and,M                      , walt-                       iriy 7u 'Iicipr         ealectricity in kilowatt boors Per caPita;
lest l~  andpoores hl p o   Percentages oln      vidb      mt-generally bbaseed onapproldct'ion data, without allowance for losses In
isat 10% and '        land cesmers.                                            grids hbat allowing for i~mports and expsrta of electricity.
Neslthtand Nuis-ition                                                                  Newsporint, (k/yr per cap) - Par capita annual consamPtion In kilograms
?opAion. per plwicral.a  - Population divided by number of srctcn                     stimated from dumestlopouto         lsnt mot          fnwpit



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
AREA      2        POPULATION                                    DENSITY
475,366 km         2.65 million (mid-1974)                               2
Rate of Growth:   2.6% (from 1966 to 1974)     13.6/km
POPULATIONi CHARACTERISTICS (1974)                             IIEALTH (1.974)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                  44.2            lPopulation per Physician     10,860
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                  16.3             Population per Itospital Bed    224
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births)      96.0
EDUCATION                                                      ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Adult Literacy Rate (1971)          32.2%                         % of Population - Urban    50%
Primary School Enrollment (1975)    56.8%
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1975 US$450 /1
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN FY75                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROW1H (%,   FY69 constant price)
(at current prices)
US$ Million         %         FY71-72         FY72-73         FY73-74
GDP at Market Prices       1,365.6        100.0          2.8             20.1             1.2
Gross Domestic
Investment                  220.2         16.1       -20.1             -43.7          -37.5
Gross Domestic Saving        201.4         14.7        -32.9            243.4            86.3
Current Account Balance      149.0         10.9           -             104.2            18.6
Exports of Goods, NFS        566.4         41.5         36.3            -23.3           -4.6
Imports of Goods, NFS        556.8         40.8        -5.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1972
/2
Value Added -                 Labor Force                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Million     %             'O0O         %              US$     % of National
Average
Agriculture       258.7       40.1           158        48.8           1,637          82.2
Industry          189.7       29.4            43        13.3           4,411         221.4
Services          197.1       30.5           123        37.9           1,602          80.4
Total/Average     645.5      100.0           324       100.0           1,992         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(K Million)                               % of GDP
FY75                  FY72-73           FY74             FY75
Current Receipts               179.7                  12.3             13.6             18.0
Current Expenditures/3         341.0                  27.8             27.6             34.2
Current Deficit               -161.3                  15.5             14.0             16.2
Capital Expenditures            33.1                   5.8              3.0              3.3
External Assistance (net)      137.6                  16.2             15.2             13.8
1/ 1975 World Atlas.
2/ At factor cost.
3/ Includes salaries and allowance paid by the Australian Government to its overseas
officers in the PNG public service.
October 1, 1976



ANbl.X r
Page 4 of 4
COUNTRY DATA - I'APUA Hl.NW GUINIA
MONEY, CRITr ANI) PRICEIS                     FY73     FY74     FY75
(Million K outstanding end of period)
Money and Quasi Money/I                      149.3     284.0    303.5
Bank Credit to l'Liblic Sector                 19.3    -12.4      8.4
Bank Crudit to Private Sector                 118.3     137.9    170.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and QluZIsi Money as % of Gl)D           25.1      28.3
Consumer Plrice Index (1971=100)              111.0     143.3    154.1
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Conisumer Price Index (1971=100)             4.8      29.1      7.5
Bank Credit to Plublic Sector                1.0   -164.2    167.7
Bank Credit to Plrivate Sector            -12.6      L6.6     23.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENIS /2                             MERCHANDISE EXPORrS (AVERAGE FY73-75)
FY73    FY74     FY75 /3                      US$ Million      %
(US$ tlilion)
L.xports of Goods         304.4   676.3   562.3     Coffee                  38.8        7.7
import of Goods           276.9   330.4   496.0     Cocoa                   33.5        6.7
NF-Service (net)          -38.1   -29.6    -56.7    Copra & Copra lProducts  43.0       8.6
Resource Gap (deficit = -)-10.6   316.3      9.6    Timber                  19.9        4.0
Copper Ore &
Concentrates         323.7       64.5
Factor Service Payments                             All Other Commodities   42.8        8.5
(net)                 -122.8  -306.3   -50.2       Total
Net Transfers             188.2   222.6    189.6       (excJ. Reexports)   501.7      10o(1.1
Balance on Current
Account                 54.8   232.6    149.0
Private Capital           -30.9   -95.4    -27.5     EXTERNAL DUBT, IDECEMBER 31, 1975
Puiblic Ml.T loans (net)   40.1    53.8     46.7                                 US$ Million
Direct Investment          68.4   210.2   -45.2
Other Capital n.e.i.      -94.8  -163.7   -174.4     Public lebt. incl. Guaranteed    31i
Residual (surplus)         37.6   237.5   -51.4     Non-Guaranteed Private lDebt       -
Total Outstanding & Disbursed     ill
FUEL AND RELATEID ilAERIALS
FY72    FY73     FY74      DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY75 /4     %
(US$ Mlillion)
Imports                15.2    14.2     29.6     I'Liblic Debt, incl. Guaranteed    2.9
Exports                 -       -        -        Non-Guaranteed Private l)ebt       -
Total Ouitsteinding & Disbursed    2.9
RA'IE OF EXCHANGE                                IBRD/IDA LENIDING (as of 8/31/76) (US$ Million):
Until 12/23/72              9/9/73 - 9/30/74                                   IBRU    IDA
US$1.00 = KU.840            US$1.00   KO.675
Kl.00 = US$1.19             K1.00  = US$1.49       Outstanding & Disbursed    48.5    2u.7
Undisbursed                 7.0     4.5
12/23/72 - 2/13/73          9/30/74 - 6/30/75      Outstanding incl.
US$1.00   KO.784            US$1.00   K0.752           Undisbursed            55.5    25.2
K1.00 = US$1.28             K1.00  = US$1.33
2/13/73 - 9/9/73            6/30/75 - 7/25/76
Us$1.O0  = KU.704           US$1.00   K KO.794
KI.00 = US$1.42             K1.00 = US$1.26
From 7/25/76
US$1.00 - KO.763
KI.00 = US$1.31
1/ PNG has been part of the Australian monetary and banking system. Figures on money and
quasi money are therefore onty estimates.
2/ PNG as part of the Australian monetary system has had no complete separate balance of
payments. Figures on private capital and monetary movements are rough estimates. The
country has not had foreign exchange reserves on its own until the last year.
3/ Preliminary.
4/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
October 1, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of August 31, 1976
Loan or
Credit                                              Amounts (US$ millions)
Number       Year    Borrower       Purpose       Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Three credits and three loans fully disbursed     34.7   11.0         -
852-PNG      1972      PNG     Telecommunications 10.0               3.0
326-PNG      1972      PNG     Ports                      9.2        1.9
348-PNG      1973      PNG     Livestock                  5.0        2.6
999-PNG      1974      PNG     Power II           10.8               4.0
Total now outstanding              55.5   25.2      11.5
Amount sold                         6.1
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /1                      49.4   25.2
Total undisbursed                   7.0    4.5      11.5
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /2
Loan No. 737        Upper Ramu No. 1 Hydroelectric Project; US$23.2 Million
Loan of May 26, 1971; Effective Date: July 30, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
The project consists of a 75 MW underground power station, re-
lated substations, and 320 miles of transmission lines linking centers
previously served by small diesel units. The civil works were completed
/1   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
/2   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 2
ahead of schedule within the 20 percent cost escalation over the original
estimate, but delays occurred in equipment supplies and commissioning of
the third unit which took place in July 1976, about ten months behind the
original schedule.   The total project cost expressed in Australian dollars
is now A$34.8 million as against A$30.3 million during appraisal (15 per-
cent increase). The difference in terms of US dollars is larger because
of exchange rate movements. The project is still economically justified
even with the changed economic situation.
Loan No. 999         Second Power Project; US$10.8 Million Loan of
June 12, 1974; Effective Date: December 27, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This project consists of three distinct items:
(i) training of local staff to permit an early and
rapid reduction of expatriates;
(ii) modest distribution expansion covering needs
thru 1979; and
(iii) shortfall in foreign exchange for Loan 737-PNG
because of the devaluation of the US dollar.
Procurement of distribution materials is underway. As for staff
recruitment, ELCOM is having extreme difficulties in reaching the target
figure due to movement of overseas staff back to Australia and difficulties
in finding suitable replacements. Another factor is that otherwise com-
petent expatriates originally selected as trainers have not always been
suitable in every case. To overcome these problems partially, ELCOM has
employed management consultants, in particular P.A. Management Consultants
Pty. Ltd., to conduct training courses or to provide guidance. Since July
1974 six such courses/exercises, at a cost to ELCOM of A$107,000, have been
conducted. The results achieved to date have been promising with about 140
Papua New Guineans having completed their training. Local staff have been
gradually taking over daily operations.
Loan No. 852         Second Telecommunications Project; US$10.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1972; Effective Date: January 19, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project provides for: (a) installation of 13,000 lines of
automatic switching equipment; (b) provision of UHF/VHF radio systems; (c)
installation of multiplex equipment to provide 650 additional circuits and
extension of long-distance automatic exchanges; and (d) consultant services.
It supports P&T's July 1973 to June 1975 development program and follows
immediately on that successfully completed under the first loan 546-PNG. As
a result of a reduction in demand for local subscribers' connections when the
schedule for independence was first announced, the project was spread over
four years instead of three years and the closing date extended to June 30,



ANNEX II
Page 3
1977. Construction is proceeding satisfactorily and the project is expected
to be complete in advance of the revised closing date. Growth in traffic
particularly for the long distance and international services has been
greater than estimated and this has offset the initial reduction in demand
for local services so that financial results have been highly satisfactory
and have exceeded appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 326         First Ports Project; US$9.2-million Credit of July 21,
1972; Effective Date: February 8, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The original project consisted of extending port facilities at Lae
and Kieta, land reclamation for new storage facilities at Port Moresby, a
new port development at Alotau, provision of mechnical handling equipment,
and consultant services. Work on all the original port improvements included
in the project has been completed; the contract for improvements to the Ocean
Wharf at Kieta, subsequently included in the project, has been let. There
will not be any expenditures for mechanical equipment as originally foreseen.
Papua New Guinea Harbors Board's financial position remains sound. It has
undertaken a review of its tariff and cash flow position over the next five
years in the light of the development programs' requirements and some re-
vision of tariffs will be required. Total cost of the civil engineering
projects is practically the same as previously reported and it is anticipated
that the total amount of the credit may not be expended.
Loan No. 348         Smallholder Livestock Credit Project; US$5.0 Million
Credit of January 4, 1973; Effective Date: May 11, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The Project supports the Government's program for development of
livestock production by smallholders. Sub-loans are made through the Papua
New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB).to smallholders for beef, pig and poultry
production. Technical assistance to smallholder livestock producers is
provided by the Department of Primary Industry (DPI). The Project also
provides for farmer training, in-service training of DPI extension staff
and for upgrading livestock research. Physical progress of the Project
has been good in that the total number of sub-loans has been in excess of
the appraisal estimate. However, the average sub-loan size has been much
smaller than the appraisal estimate and only about 50% of the credit was
disbursed at June 30, 1976. The Government will request an extension of
the closing date from December 31, 1976, probably to December 31, 1978.






ANNEX III
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Government of Papua New Guinea
Amount:                  US$4.0 million
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms
Project Description:     The project would help to finance expansion of
five educational institutions (in agricultural,
health, primary and secondary teacher training,
and technical fields) and, in addition, would
support planning and studies essential to long-
term development of the education and training
sector, including an experimental program at five
Rural Vocational Centers. Altogether the project
includes 21-1/2 years of specialist services and
9-1/2 years of fellowships to strengthen staff and
curriculum development.
Estimated Costs:
----- US$ Million -----
Local   Foreign    Local
Highlands Agricultural Training Institute         0.45      0.29     0.75
College of Allied Health Sciences, Madang        0.40     0.34      0.74
Rural Vocational Centers                         0.07     0.07      0.14
Primary Teachers College                         0.30      0.33     0.63
Secondary Teachers College                       0.57     0.59      1.16
Lae Technical College                            0.51      0.55     1.06
Technical Assistance                             0.13      1.12     1.24
Subtotal                                         2.43     3.29      5.72
Contingencies:
Physical                                    0.13     0.17      0.30
Price                                       0.62     0.75      1.37
Subtotal                                         0.75     0.92      1.67
Total Project Costs                              3.18      4.21     7.39



ANNEX III
Page 2
Financing Plan:            The proposed IDA Credit of US$4.0 million would
represent 95 percent of the foreign exchange
component or 56 percent of total project costs,
with the Government providing the remaining funds.
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY      77    78     79    80    81
Semester 1   0.1    0.6   0.6   0.6   0.1
2   0.3   0.8   0.6   0.3     -
Cumulative   0.4    1.8   3.0   3.9   4.0
Procurement:               Contracts for civil works and furniture would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures, satisfactory to the Association,
except certain contracts for HATI and Lae Technical
College costing less than $65,000 each but less
than $275,000 in aggregate which would be negotiated
contracts. In addition, contracts aggregating
less than $250,000 for HATI, Lae Technical
College and the College of Allied Health Science
may be carried out by force account. Prior
approval by the Association would be required
for all civil works contracts of more than
US$200,000. Equipment contracts exceeding US$50,000
would be awarded following ICB. Equipment which
cannot reasonably be grouped into contracts of
US$50,000 would be awarded without prior IDA
approval following local competitive bidding.
Books (US$150,000 total) would be purchased
directly from local distributors. Off-the-shelf
items not exceeding US$10,000 each up to a
maximum aggregate of US$100,000 could be purchased
on the basis of three price quotations.
Appraisal Report No. 1210-PNG
Dated September 22, 1976
East Asia and Pacific Region



n  ;    X        ~~~I R I A N   J A YA   ( I ND O N ES I A )
>~~~~~. .... ......     --     ---7----;---------~       
!   w 0 ,,-  -F       ----------2~~~~~~-------
i- - - -\ - - - - - - - ---- --                             --  -- ------- --
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -   -t\  - - - t - - - -
I--------------------V                ;-   <   x            g 
!                ;       2          1         Cc~~~~~~1-1 
O = ~rn m
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ : ZS to > 
X   e      . XJ     2       m 9 e e Z r f  . z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C)e






,   2  1  1   <     ~~~I R I A N   J A YA   ( I ND O N ES I A )
s        u i_ X ________ ------------* X 7----   A- 
.        </           X       -.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------
%------%-__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o-__---- 40 
- ~ - - - -2 
____> ______ -------------------- 
S y             \ z  \  C     le x S D ~~~~~~~~~~I----------------------
-------------                                          oz t m  :



