Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 18710
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2950-BR)
December 17, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit: Cruzado (Cz$)1
Rate at Appraisal:            US$1.00  =  Cz$51.7
Cz$1.00 =  US$0.02
Cz$1 million = US$19,325
Rate at Completion:           US$1.00  =  R$1.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CODEVASF                     Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company
DNOCS                        National Department of Drought Works
DNOS                         National Department of Sanitation
ECE                          State Coordinating Entity
ELETROBRAS                   Brazilian Power Plants, S.A.
GOB                          Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil
ICR                          Implementation Completion Review
IGM                          Incremental Gross Margin
MA                           Ministry of Agriculture
MINTER                       Ministry of the Interior
MIR                          Ministry of Regional Integration
MMA                          Ministry of Environment, Water Resources and the Amazon
NPV                          Net Present Value
O&M                          Operation and Maintenance
PMU                          Project Management Unit
POA                          Annual Operating Plan
PROFIR                       Program for Financing Irrigation Equipment
PROINE                       Irrigation Program for the Northeast
PRONI                        National Irrigation Program
PROVARZEAS                   Program for the Development of Floodlands
SAR                          Staff Appraisal Report
SEC                          State Electric Company
SENIR                        National Secretariat for Irrigation
SOE                          Statement of Expenses
SRH                          Water Resources Secretariat
TOR                          Terms of Reference
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President             Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Director           Maritta Koch-Weser
Country Director          Gobind T. Nankani
Task Manager              Larry Simpson
The Cruzado (Cz$) was introduced in 1986, followed by another new currency, the Real (RS) in 1994.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Ln. 2950-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page N
PREFACE .................................            .                                           i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A. Background .
B. Project Objectives, Components and Design                        .2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                           .3
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project              .4
E. Project Sustainability and Future Operations                     .6
F. Bank Performance                                    .7
G. Borrower Performance                                  .7
H. Assessment of Outcome                                  .8
I. Main Findings and Lessons Learned ............................;.8
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .10
Table 1:  Sunmary of Assessments .......................................                10
Table 2.  Related Bank Loans .......................................                    12
Table 3.  Project Timetable .......................................                     13
Table 4.  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............................... 13
Table 5.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .......................................  14
Table 6.  Studies Included in Project .......................................           14
Table 7.  Project Costs and Financing .......................................           16
Table 8.  Status of Legal Covenants .......................................             17
Table 9.  Economic Costs and Benefits .......................................           22
Table 10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .24
Table 11. Bank Resources: Missions..                                                    25
APPENDIX I: Borrower Contribution to ICR .28
APPENDIX II: Economic Re-evaluation.                                                           3 1
MAP:           IBRD No. 20841
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Ln. 2950-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Irrigation Subsector Project,
for which Loan 2950-BR in the amount of US$195.0 million was approved by the Board on June
9, 1988, signed on September 21, 1988 and became effective on May 31, 1989.
2.    The Loan closed on December 31, 1997, four years behind schedule, following three
extensions of the Closing Date and a partial cancellation of US$26 million in December 31,
1994. The Bank made its last disbursement on March 24, 1998. Following the termination of a
120-day grace period for disbursements incurred before the loan Closing Date, an undisbursed
balance of US$378,990 was canceled.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Larry Simpson of the Environmentally and Socially
Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit (LCSES) of the Latin America and
Caribbean Region (LCR) in collaboration with Alvaro Soler and Manuel Rego (Consultants),
and Victor Valle (LCSES). The ICR was reviewed by Robert Schneider, Cecile Ramsey, Musa
Asad and Luiz Gabriel Azevedo.
4.    Preparation of this ICR has been based on the findings of field visits to the project area
by World Bank staff and consultants, interviews with government officials and other Bank staff,
and the review of material in the project file. A Borrower Completion Report, prepared by the
Secretariat of Water Resources (SRH) of the Ministry of the Environment, Water Resources and
the Legal Amazon (MMA), is on file and available in the LCSES Department Project File.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Ln. 2950-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This project was developed as a component of the National Irrigation Program
(PRONI) in Brazil in order to facilitate the modernization and enhancement of irrigation
technology within the country, to provide the opportunity for small farmers to avail
themselves of the benefits of irrigated production and to strengthen the capacity of
governmental institutions at both the Federal and State levels to provide technological,
managerial and regulatory oversight to the water resources management and irrigation
sector. The Bank and the Government of Brazil (GOB) anticipated that this project
would lay the framework for future projects in this sector, while, at the same time,
providing tangible physical benefits in the field in the form of rehabilitated and new
irrigation projects and access to electric energy for the purpose of irrigation throughout
rural Brazil.
Project Objectives
2.    As defined at appraisal, the Project would finance a five-year time slice of the
PRONI program. Project objectives were: (a) to develop private irrigation in the
highlands, including the cerrados, and the floodplains or varzeas included in the project
area (originally the federal district of Brasilia and 10 states of the south and west-central
regions); (b) to share planning with, and decentralize the execution of irrigation
investments to the state and local levels; and (c) to prepare policies and develop an
organizational framework for the continued expansion of private irrigation and improved
management of water resources.
3.    The Project sought to meet its objectives by: (a) reducing the vulnerability of
dryland rural farmers to drought and meteorological variabilities in the production of
subsistence and commercial crops; (b) providing electrical energy in rural localities for
the purpose of facilitating irrigation and enhancing the lifestyle of rural populations;
(c) providing technical assistance and institutional strengthening to relevant
governmental entities at both the state and local level; (d) funding the rehabilitation of
existing irrigation projects; and (e) assisting in the development of selected small
irrigation projects, including the institutional development of sustainable operation and
maintenance (O&M) in a participatory manner with the users.



- iv -
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project was moderately successful in providing enhanced opportunities for
dryland farmers to move to irrigated farming in many rural areas. The availability of
electricity and technical support in irrigation has provided, at least to some degree, an
irrigation alternative to both subsistence and commercial farming in the rural areas of
Brazil, particularly in the Northeast.
5.    The effects of the provision of rural electrification is still being felt as irrigation
projects are constructed which will utilize this energy. Transmission of electrical energy
was provided for projects under the National Department of Drought Works (DNOCS) in
Piaui, and for the Bank-financed Barreiras and Formoso H projects in Bahia and the
Baixo Acarau and Tabuleiros da Russas Projects. The transmission of energy to rural
agricultural areas has improved access of small farmers to irrigation opportunities and has
also enhanced living standards by providing domestic energy. The electrification
program still has the potential of increasing irrigation acreage as a significant area under
electrification is not yet under irrigation.
6.    Funding from this project provided the strengthening of the Secretariat of
Irrigation, which has now evolved into the Secretariat of Water Resources. The federal
company for the development of the valley of the Sao Francisco River (CODEVASF)
was also strengthened in its capacity to manage construction contracts, handle Bank
procurement and provide technical assistance and managerial oversight to the projects
under its jurisdiction. Funds from this project were instrumental in providing the
technical assistance and research necessary for the preparation and recent adoption of the
new comprehensive Federal Water Law. Funds from this project were also used to
develop and strengthen state agencies responsible for irrigation and the management of
water resources at the state level. Three states developed comprehensive water laws,
secretariats of water resources and comprehensive state water resources plans utilizing
the funding from this project. Several other states began the planning process for the
eventual evolution of water resources management programs from this loan. This project
provided the legal and institutional foundations for several follow-on loans to states
specifically in the water resources management area such as the Ceara Water Pilot, the
Ceara Water Management Project and the Bahia Water Management Project as well as
the comprehensive Federal Water Resources Management Project (PROAGUA) to assist
the States and Federal Government in continuing the work started within this project
7.    Several rehabilitation efforts were accomplished in the South of Brazil for small
irrigation projects that had deteriorated due to age and inadequate maintenance. Efforts
were also made to strengthen the user participation to enhance the sustainability of these
projects. While two moderate-sized dam projects in the amount of US$26 million were
canceled toward the end of the loan due to insufficient progress, a very successful
irrigation project was developed in the Paracatu Basin in the state of Minas Gerais
through a cooperative effort of the user association and the Rural Minas agency. This
project implemented some very innovative ideas developed by the users, and the
construction was jointly managed by the user association and the state agency. The result



v -
was a successful and sustainable project which is being operated and maintained by the
user association with operation and maintenance fully funded by the users.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
8.    While this project was faced with long delays and extremely unstable federal
financial and economic conditions during its implementation, the long lasting benefits
which will be provided through the rural electrification and the strengthening of the
federal agencies in the ability to deliver services of benefit to the irrigators and water
users should carry on for several more generations. As with any project which suffers
delays caused by economic instability, this project suffered at times from
mismanagement within the agencies involved, coupled with poor follow-through from
the Bank at various times. In retrospect, the project attempted to accomplish too much in
too many unrelated areas to be efficiently managed. The rural electrification program
might better have been an independent financing that could have been supervised by
Bank personnel with appropriate technology in the sector and implemented directly by
the electrical sector within Brazil as opposed to the irrigation sector having principal
jurisdiction. Similarly, the rehabilitation aspects should have been concentrated in more
defined regions that had similar problems. The implementation responsibility between
the Federal Government and the states was not well defined and the ability of most states
to provide their commitment of counterpart funding was not adequately evaluated during
appraisal. The institutional capability of the states to fulfill their commitments was
inadequate in many instances and was not properly dealt with in the early stages of the
project. The institutional strengthening aspects of the project, while ultimately
successful, were faced with several periods of indecision and lack of direction. Only
through strong Bank influence in the latter stages of the project was the technical
assistance and institutional development component salvaged.
9.    In future operations of this nature, emphasis should be placed on clearly defining
the objectives and prioritizing the activities anticipated. This project left too much to be
determined at a later date with few defined plans on how to proceed objectively. This
type of umbrella project escalates the danger that project emphasis will concentrate on
one segment or sector at the whim of the political philosophy in power at the time, with
other segments dropping through the cracks. Future operations should concentrate on
simplicity, with clearly defined criteria for the formulation of its components.- They
should also include a clear path for the implementation of the project to achieve the
objectives. In addition, more emphasis should be placed on clearly identifying the initial
ambient conditions so that more defined evaluation of results can be accomplished. If an
objective evaluation of the impacts of a project of this type are to be attained, sufficient
funding must be provided for the Bank evaluation team to effectively investigate the
results in the field and to collect and evaluate data. It should also be recognized that a
project of this type is evolutionary and that many of the beneficial impacts will not be
evidenced or realized for at least ten years following the completion of the project.
Efforts should be made to make such a post-project evaluation in order to properly use
these impacts to modify future projects of this type in a beneficial manner.
10.   Lessons Learned. Lessons learned are as follows:



- vi -
(a)    Simple is better. Multipurpose projects with diverse implementation
agencies or interests involved lead to a lack of definition of
responsibilities and a lack of objective emphasis on all parts of the project.
Objectives need to be more clearly defined, and targets and monitoring
indicators well thought-out and understood.
(b)   Project financing plan should assess Borrower's ability to meet
counterpart funding requirement under varying macroeconomic
conditions. The impact of macroeconomic instability needs to be better
anticipated, and actions and decisions to deal with the effects of such
instability need be taken in an expeditious manner. The methodology of
dealing with delays caused by such economic conditions should be clearly
thought out and the loans should be either cancelled or placed in
suspension until counterpart funds are provided rather than to continue to
pursue implementation in an inefficient and lackadaisical manner.
(c)   Provision of adequate support infrastructure is not enough to promote
expansion of irrigation, change in crop patterns and an increase in crop
yields. There must also be good macroeconomic conditions and proper
support for on-farm investments, as well as technical assistance for new
irrigation farmers to adequately assimilate the change from non-irrigated
to irrigated farming.
(d)   Technical and limited financial assistance for institution building are not
enough to promote long-term institutional capacity growth. Long-term
political support must be secured up front, and financial support must be
tied to achievement of specific capacity targets. This should avoid waning
political endorsement as external financial support subsides, which would
allow weak or immature institutions to succumb before they attain
institutional stability and economic self-sufficiency. New institutional and
management concepts must be clearly accepted and enthusiastically
endorsed by the client leadership rather than just being a condition of the
loan.
(e)   Implementation responsibility must be clearly defined and sufficiently
funded. Staff stability at responsible levels is important in maintaining
institutional memory in the implementation process and in achieving
efficient implementation processes. Inter-sectoral projects must clearly
organize the interactions between responsible parties in order to maximize
coordination and minimize overlap and redundancy.
(f)    Bank support and supervision, including sufficient funding for
supervision, should continue until the end of the project and not dwindle
after the major disbursements are completed. The lower-cost institutional
components are generally implemented towards the end of this type of
project, and this is the time that Bank assistance and supervision should be
greatest if sustainability is to occur. Supervision budgets should be based



- vii -
upon project complexity and institutional needs, not disbursement size. In
addition, adequate funding for final evaluation should be provided to
facilitate objective and detailed evaluation by a multi-disciplinary team.
(g)   In future irrigation sector projects, careful effort should be made to
measure and clearly define the initial ambient conditions so that effective
evaluation of project impacts can be made. Project preparation should
also concentrate on defining the institutional capacity of the implementing
agency to manage the project at the initial stages and over the long run.
Consideration should be given to the impacts of macro-economic
conditions on the implementation progress and realistic time frames for
implementation should be made. Strong consideration should be given to
the use of programmatic loans such as the recently developed APL in
order to maintain clearer definition of each tranche and to provide
initiative for effective completion of each tranche as a measure of the
capacity to proceed to the next stage.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Ln. 2950-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    During the early 1 980s, the agricultural sector in Brazil entered a period of
relative stagnation resulting in a leveling off of exports, a decline in per capita food
production and an increase in food imports. Concerned about the adverse effects of a
slowdown in agricultural growth on trade balances, rural employment and income and
urban wage levels, the Government placed greater emphasis on increasing food
production for internal consumption. Policy measures in support of this objective
included reforms in pricing, trade and credit policies, as well as selected, high priority
subsectoral investments. Private irrigation development, through intensified production
on existing lands, presented one of the most cost-effective strategies for achieving
agricultural growth and increasing the production of food crops for domestic
consumption. The main geographic focus of new irrigation development was expected to
be in the cerrados (savannah lands) of the Center-West states and in Minas Gerais and
Sao Paulo States. Improved technologies allowed for the introduction of overhead
irrigation systems in already developed areas where public investment would focus on
supplying a complementary infrastructure.
2.   In February 1986, as part of its commitment to the rapid expansion of irrigation,
the Government consolidated most federal irrigation functions under a new Minister of
Irrigation Affairs. The Minister was charged with crafting the policy and organizational
framework for accelerating private sector investment, rationalizing and expanding public
sector agency activities, particularly in the Northeast, and securing support for an
integrated national irrigation development effort. Two regional coordinating programs
were created under the new Minister: the Northeast Irrigation Program (PROINE) and the
National Irrigation Program (PRONI).
3.    The Bank began supporting irrigation planning and development under PROINE
with the Northeast Irrigation Engineering Project (Loan 2680-BR) and the Upper and
Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project (Loan 2719-BR). In June 1986, the Government
asked the Bank to assist in financing a time slice of the PRONI program. The main
objectives of PRONI were twofold: (a) to help increase the production of food grains,
vegetables and fruits through private irrigation development in the South, Southeast and
Center-West states of Brazil; and (b) to formulate policy and coordinate the activities of
federal, state and private agencies towards expanded private irrigation, consistent with
the sustained availability and equitable distribution of riverine and ground water



-2 -
resources. A complementary objective was to decentralize planning and support for
private irrigation to the state level.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, COMPONENTS AND DESIGN
4.    As defined at appraisal, the Project would finance a five-year time slice of the
PRONI program. Project objectives were: (a) to develop private irrigation in the
highlands, including the cerrados, and the floodplains or varzeas included in the project
area (originally the federal district of Brasilia and 10 states of the south and west-central
regions); (b) to share planning with, and decentralize the execution of irrigation
investments to the state and local levels; and (c) to prepare policies and develop an
organizational framework for the continued expansion of private irrigation and improved
management of water resources.
5.    The Project sought to meet its objectives by: (a) reducing the vulnerability of
dryland rural farmers to drought and meteorological variabilities in the production of
subsistence and commercial crops; (b) providing electrical energy in rural localities for
the purpose of facilitating irrigation and enhancing the lifestyle of rural populations;
(c) providing technical assistance and institutional strengthening to relevant
governmental entities at both the state and local level; (d) funding the rehabilitation of
existing irrigation projects; and (e) assisting in the development of selected small
irrigation projects, including the institutional development of sustainable operation and
maintenance (O&M) in a participatory manner with the users.
6.    Project goals included benefiting 50,000 farmers in 10 states of the Center-West,
Southeast and Southern regions of the country and in the Federal District. It was
estimated at appraisal that the project would generate direct employment for 20,000 farm
workers, and indirect employment for another 40,000 workers. Physical targets consisted
of some 22,000 km of electric power distribution lines for pumping, mainly along water
courses, and US$74 million worth of hydraulic infrastructure in selected areas, including
public drainage, small dams and other water control structures. These activities would
spur private investment in irrigation and promote intensification of production on existing
crop lands. It was estimated that annual incremental value of production at full
development would reach US$900 million (US$650 for grains and US$250 million for
fruits and vegetables), derived from 2,950 additional tons of grain produced, and 420
additional tons of vegetables, produced in 720,000 hectares of newly irrigated land. On-
farm development would be financed through existing official and commercial lines of
credit. Institutional development would support private irrigation initiatives, strengthen
management capabilities of the ongoing PRONI program and state irrigation
organizations, as well as promote research on irrigated agricultural production, the social
and economic impacts of expanded irrigation, and the rational management of water
resources, with specific attention to environmental aspects and safeguards.



- 3 -
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    Although the project's objectives and structure were well suited to its innovative
nature, the SAR expected that limited institutional capacity (including PRONI's, and
other federal, state and private entities) could potentially hamper planning and
management of the project, thus making implementation difficult. The project sought to
overcome these handicaps by financing technical assistance to improve project
management and institutional capacity. This strategy proved unsuccessful during the
initial stages of project implementation, and project execution suffered from institutional
weakness, worsened by institutional instability, and adverse general economic conditions.
8.   Initial pace of project implementation was slow. The first two years of project
implementation were marked by continuous institutional changes, and adverse general
economic conditions which translated into lack of counterpart funds. This resulted in
delays to achieve effectiveness, and 50% to 75% disbursement lags throughout the first
two years of project implementation (1989 through 1991). Thereafter, project
implementation slowly improved throughout 1992 and 1993. At that time procurement
problems that hampered implementation early on were solved, disbursement rate
improved even as availability of counterpart funds was still limited, and the institutional
framework continued to evolve.
9.    At the end of 1993, a one-year extension of the Closing Date was granted, and by
the new Closing Date of December 31, 1994, most project funds had been committed,
except US$26 million corresponding to two dams that could no be completed in 1994 in
order to comply with Bank safety guidelines. At the end of 1994, having disbursed most
of the funds corresponding to the electric and hydraulic support components, the loan
Closing Date was extended 18 months to June 30, 1996, the US$26 million for pending
hydraulic works were canceled, and the Technical Assistance component was
strengthened to develop institutional and technical capacity of the newly created
Secretariat of Water Resources.
10.   Overall, most loan funds were disbursed before the first extended Closing Date,
but disbursement profile was not adequate. Given the lag between disbursement for
procured goods and actual implementation of related works, physical implementation
lagged farther behind than financial implementation. Records show that implementation
of electric and hydraulic support works based on counterpart funding, continued on for
almost two years after the last disbursement related to procurement of goods for those
works.
11.   While disbursements were adequate, physical implementation and development
impact fell short of the intended targets. Under the electrification component, project
targets included construction of electric power subtransmission and distribution lines and
substations in selected areas. Out of 22,000 km of distribution lines projected, only
11,200 km were constructed, representing 51% of original targets.
12.   Because no appraisal estimates were made for hydraulic works, no comparison
can be made for that component. In all, only 33% of the target number of beneficiaries



-4 -
was reached (16,500 actual as opposed to 50,000 projected at appraisal), although the
area reportedly benefited by infrastructure investments covered 92% of the area projected
(547,000 ha as opposed to 595,000 ha projected at appraisal). At project completion the
area effectively irrigated was only 53% of the appraisal target (317,000 ha as opposed to
595,000 ha projected), and only 39% of the target was actually newly irrigated land
(234,000 ha). All these figures, if accepted as reported in the semi-annual
implementation reports, tend to show that appraisal estimates may have underestimated
unit investment costs, while overestimating the impact of project activities on on-farm
investments.
13.   With regards to the institutional development component, project performance
was mixed. The target of shared planning and execution of irrigation investments
between federal, state and local levels was not met during the initial implementation
stages, when it was needed. Meanwhile, development of an organizational and policy
framnework for the continued expansion of private irrigation and improved management
of water resources was attained. This was particularly true during the last period of
project implementation, after the first Closing Date extension, when technical assistance
activities were strengthened.
14.   As mentioned then, project's overall performance fell short of achieving most of
its stated goals, in spite of apparently fair overall disbursement and economic
performance. Issues that should be looked into in relation to overall performance are: (i)
adequacy of appraisal costs and development impact estimates; (ii) adequacy of
instruments devised to support institutional capacity building (mainly at the State level);
and (iii) suitability of project arrangements to secure availability of extra-project
resources necessary to attain the stated development objectives, most notably, availability
of adequate credit for on-farm investments. However, regardless of adequacy of cost and
impact estimates, and credit availability arrangements for on-farm investments, it was the
unforeseeable lack of institutional stability, and the related problems with the flow of
funds, that affected initial project implementation the most.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
15.   The Irrigation Subsector Project (Loan 2950-BR) was initially conceived as a
financial support to a two-year time slice of the National Irrigation Program (PRONI),
aimed at promoting development of private irrigation in the south and west-central
highplains (cerrados) and floodplains (varzeas).
16.   The two main areas of activities were the development of a decentralized
institutional arrangement to promote improved water resources management in
participating states, and financial support for decentralized planning and execution of
basic infrastructure to support and expand private investment in irrigation. As such, it
would extend and complement the activities of the existing PROVARZEAS (hydraulic
support focused on drainage) and PROFIR (financial support for acquisition of irrigation
equipment) programs. Along with these two programs, the Project constituted the first
government attempt to assist the development of private irrigation.



- 5 -
17.   Project implementation was very difficult during its initial stages due to constant
institutional changes that included four different institutional arrangements for irrigation
sector oversight. Additionally, institutional changes also affected areas related to
management of financial support to agricultural activities, which were closely related to
attainment of desired project development objectives.
18.  In 1988 a new Constitution was approved, and in January 1989 an Administrative
Reform transferred PRONI to the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture (MA) and
Supplies (along with DNOCS, DNOS, CODEVASF, PROVARZEAS and PROFIR).
Once the post of Special (Extraordinary) Minister for Irrigation Matters was abolished, an
Executive Secretariat for PRONI was established. In March, 1990, a National Secretariat
for Irrigation (SENIR) was created within MA. In 1992, this structure was again
changed, as the Secretariat of Regional Development was abolished and the Ministry of
Regional Integration (MIR) created. SENIR was transferred from MA to MIR, and
transformed into a Secretariat for Irrigation (SIR), while DNOCS and CODEVASF were
once again transferred, this time to MIR. In January, 1995 SIR and MIR were
transformed into the Secretariat for Water Resources within the Ministry of Environment,
Water Resources and the Amazon (MMA). These continued changes, and both the
institutional setup and the low perceived political importance of water resources
management, had a direct impact in support by the States.
19.   Aside from this changing institutional structure, there were conflicting views with
regards to the spirit of the project among some of the officials involved. Some people
thought that the project's focus was to develop stronger institutional arrangements and
capacity for water resources management at state level, coupled with financial backing to
well planned, tightly integrated, power and hydraulic investments in support of private
irrigation initiatives. Meanwhile, another group of people focused on adequate
implementation of power and hydraulic investments, regardless of their mutual
integration and the development of the institutional capacity. Analysis of project
implementation seems to show that the second approach was the prevailing one.
20.   Progress of the electric and hydraulic support components was mostly
independent of each other, driven mainly by the State Electric Companies (SECs) and
other actors involved, with little input from the State Coordinating Entities (ECEs). This
situation was fueled by the continued institutional changes at the Federal level which
translated into waning support for the decentralization process at the state level, and
unequal balance of power between the different institutions involved in the
implementation. Balance of power among agents involved in project implementation was
tipped in favor of the SECs; as a consequence, a larger attention was drawn to the electric
support component activities, which resulted in an unbalanced execution between the
electric support component and the other two components. In the end, if one of the
project objectives was to develop institutional capacity, and to bring in a more balanced
focus between the engineering and agricultural development facets of irrigation support,
the outcome was not the expected.
21.   This institutional instability at the Federal level was also reflected in the activities
of the Project Management Unit (PMU), which underwent several staffing changes.



-6 -
Records show that it took long for the PMU to settle on project supervision activities, and
it was not until the third year of project implementation that the first information about
implementation progress was produced. Meanwhile, throughout this period,
implementation progressed without achieving either good coordination between PMU
and ECEs, or enough institutional strength by the ECEs. As a result, it became easier for
the PMU to take over some of the activities that should have been performed by the ECEs
(such as the preparation of the POAs), thus reinforcing the process of waning support for
ECEs' activities at the state level.
22.   Monitoring of implementation activities did not take place during the first two
years, and it was later entrusted to different organizations operating under different
frameworks. This resulted in unreliable information and delays in taking corrective
measures when situations granted them, until a final monitoring system was adopted
more then half way through project implementation. Meanwhile, monitoring of
development indicators throughout most of the project life was also not as strict as it
should have been. Elements that point to weak follow-up activities include
environmental problems arisen due to deficient construction of some hydraulic works,
unfulfilled counterpart duties as in the case of the State of Rio de Janeiro, and anecdotal
evidence that hydraulic works in flood plains may have promoted non-irrigated instead of
irrigated agricultural production. In addition, lack of focus on development objectives
both by Borrower and by Bank -that concentrated monitoring and supervision efforts on
procurement and stock management issues by ECEs- fosters the notion by outside
observers that the project may have been implemented more as a power sector project,
than an irrigation sector project.
23.   The PMU also paid insufficient attention to implementation of the technical
assistance activities within the institutional components. Although much good work was
done and supported during the first period of implementation (up to the second Closing
Date extension), not enough attention seems to have been paid to adequate cataloguing
and follow-up efforts. This situation was reversed during the last two years of the
project. During this period, technical assistance activities were greatly strengthened, and
re-focused toward supporting development of water resources management capacity at
the state level, as well as toward activities related to identification of potential projects
for future private irrigation development. In the end, output from this last period of
implementation reversed the weaker outcome from the early years of activities of the
institutional strengthening component.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
24.   At present there are no formal plans to continue supporting irrigation
development based on the infrastructure left in place by the electric and hydraulic support
components. Moreover, there is no formal auditing system to monitor whether the ECEs
effectively surrender shares to the States in partial payment for supplies provided by the
project, as agreed. If actually implemented, this system would have provided a means to
sustain electric support activities beyond the project implementation period.



- 7 -
25.   However, infrastructure built would allow irrigation in 547,000 ha, while only
317,000 ha are currently used for irrigated agriculture production. If macroeconomic
conditions remain stable, private irrigation should continue to expand within the project
area for the next few years. From an operational point of view, sustainability of the
electric power support component, which accounts for 75% of the area covered by
infrastructure investments, should be assured since O&M is carried out by SECs, and
costs should be covered by users' charges.
26.   The sustainability of the institutional component which includes the legal
framework at the Federal level and at the state level in several states, is highly probable
as both the water laws and institutional frameworks to implement these laws were firmly
established as part of this project. Sustainable financial programs were implemented, and
the concepts of water rights allocation, cost recovery and participatory river basin
management were firmly inculcated into the philosophy of both the Federal Government
and that of the state that moved forward with water laws.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.   Bank performance was uneven throughout project implementation. The Bank
was always supportive and very flexible in helping the client overcome problems
affecting implementation performance, but overall, it lacked focus on real project
objectives throughout most of the implementation period.
28.   Bank actions during preparation were concentrated on institutional aspects in
support of decentralization of planning and execution of irrigation investments to the
state and local levels. Meanwhile, during the initial stages of project implementation,
Bank actions were mostly concerned with procurement and implementation issues, and
relatively lesser efforts were devoted to monitoring the implementation of the
institutional strengthening component.
29.   Towards the end of the implementation period, when it was evident that the
institutional component had failed to achieve its goals, Bank actions were again directed
toward institutional strengthening. Bank again supported development of an appropriate
overall policy and an organizational framework at state level, conducive to continued
improvement of water resources management. Output from these activities, along with
presently underutilized electric and hydraulic support left in place, should still allow
additional development of irrigation in over 200,000 ha of land. These constitute the
major contributions of the project to irrigation and water resources management sector in
Brazil.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.   GOB's performance during project preparation was satisfactory, but deficient
during implementation. Constant institutional changes translated into changing priority
for irrigation throughout the implementation period. Because of this and severe
budgetary problems, the flow of counterpart funds stopped during several periods, with a
significant negative impact on project implementation performance.



-8 -
31.   The Borrower's compliance with Loan Covenants was satisfactory with the
exception of submission of semi-annual reports, which was uneven throughout the
implementation period but tended to improve toward the end, when quality and timing of
required reports improved markedly.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.   Rate of Return. The economic rate of return was reestimated based on the
original production models used for appraisal. The reestimated rate of return is 30.8%,
compared to the appraisal estimate of 20.6%. Although development of private irrigation
spurred by the project was less than expected and overall economic impact lower than
projected, the economic rate of return was greater due to a large degree to lower on-farm
investment costs.
33.   The Net Present Value of Total Net Incremental Benefits amounts to US$234.3
million, or 50% lower than projected. A sensitivity analysis was carried out to compare
how stable project results turned out to be in comparison to appraisal estimates. It was
calculated that estimated project results are more stable than appraisal estimates, with
switching values of -35% for gross incremental benefits, and 54% for total incremental
costs, compare to appraisal values of -28% and 40% respectively. (See Tables 9A-9C
and Appendix II for details.)
I. MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
34.   The Project offers the following lessons:
(a)   Simple is better. Multipurpose projects with diverse implementation
agencies or interests involved lead to a lack of clarification of
responsibilities and a lack of objective emphasis on all parts of the project.
Objectives need to be more clearly defined, and targets and monitoring
indicators well thought-out and understood.
(b)   Project financing plan should assess Borrower's ability to meet
counterpart funding requirement under varying macroeconomic
conditions. The impact of macroeconomic instability needs to be better
anticipated, and actions and decisions to deal with the effects of such
instability need be taken in an expeditious manner.
(c)   Provision of adequate support infrastructure is not enough to promote
expansion of irrigation, change in crop patterns and an increase in crop
yields. There must also be good macroeconomic conditions and proper
support for on-farm investments, as well as technical assistance for new
irrigation farmers to adequately assimilate the change from non-irrigated
to irrigated farming.
(d)   Technical and limited financial assistance for institution building are not
enough to promote long-term institutional capacity growth. Long-term



political support must be secured up front, and financial support must be
tied to achievement of specific capacity targets. This should avoid waning
political endorsement as external financial support subsides, which would
allow weak or immature institutions to succumb before they attain
institutional stability and economic self-sufficiency. New institutional and
management concepts must be clearly accepted and enthusiastically
endorsed by the client leadership rather than just being a condition of the
loan.
(e)   Implementation responsibility must be clearly defined and sufficiently
funded. Staff stability at responsible levels is important in maintaining
institutional memory in the implementation process and in achieving
efficient implementation processes. Inter-sectoral projects must clearly
organize the interactions between responsible parties in order to maximize
coordination and minimize overlap and redundancy.
(f)    Bank support and supervision, including sufficient funding for
supervision, should continue until the end of the project and not dwindle
after the major disbursements are completed. The lower-cost institutional
components are generally implemented towards the end of this type of
project, and this is the time that Bank assistance and supervision should be
greatest if sustainability is to occur. Supervision budgets should be based
upon project complexity and institutional needs, not disbursement size. In
addition, adequate funding for final evaluation should be provided to
facilitate objective and detailed evaluation by a multi-disciplinary team.
(g)   In future irrigation sector projects, careful effort should be made to
measure and clearly define the initial ambient conditions so that effective
evaluation of project impacts can be made. Project preparation should
also concentrate on defining the institutional capacity of the implementing_
agency to manage the project at the initial stages and over the long run.
Consideration should be given to the impacts of macro-economic
conditions on the implementation progress and realistic time frames for
implementation should be made. Strong consideration should be given to
the use of programmatic loans such as the recently developed APL in
order to maintain clearer definition of each tranche and to provide
initiative for effective completion of each tranche as a measure of the
capacity to proceed to the next stage.



-10-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Ln. 2950-BR)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives            Substantial         Partial         Negligible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                             E3
Sector Policies                                          ri C                                   E
Financial Objectives                    n                E]
Institutional Development                                                                       LI
Physical Objectives                                                                            LI
Poverty Reduction                      []
Gender Issues                                            L                  LI
Other Social Objectives                L                 Cl                                    LI
Environmental Objectives               L                  a                E3          
Public Sector Management                                 L                  L a 
Private Sector Development             L                                   LI                  Li



(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(.1)                     (/)                        (/)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                      (/)                       (v')
Identification                      I                       III
Preparation Assistance                                                                 []
Appraisal                                                     E
Supervision                         E                        ia
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(110           (V)               )
Preparation                                   C                                l n
Implementation                               n               FEj
Covenant Compliance                           C0
Operation (if applicable)                    Cl                              Ea
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
E               E



- 12 -
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
Project Title/                  Purpose               Year       Status
Loan No.                                         Approved
Preceding Operations
1. Lower Sao Francisco Polders    To rehabilitate existing    1975       Closed
Project (Ln. 1153-BR)        irrigation projects that had               1983
deteriorated due to age and
lack of maintenance.
2. Sao Francisco II Irrigation  To raise agricultural          1979       Closed
Project (Ln. 1729-BR)        production and farm incomes                1987
of some 2,700 farm families
below the absolute poverty
level in the lower Sao
Francisco River valley
3. Itaparica Resettlement and  To resettle some 8,100          1987       Closed
Irrigation Project          families displaced by the                   1997
(Ln. 2883-BR)                flooding of the reservoir of the
Itaparica Hydropower Project
on the Sao Francisco River,
maintaining and improving the
displaced population's living
standards.
Following Operations
1. Jaiba Irrigation Project    To increase agricultural       1988       Ongoing
(Ln. 3013-BR)                production and rural
employment opportunities in
the Northeast, and to promote
institutional development for
further expansion of the
irrigation subsector.
2. Northeast Irrigation I Project    To increase agricultural  1990      Ongoing
(Ln. 3170-BR)                production in the drought-
prone area of the Northeast,
through the development of
irrigation, promoting increased
farmer involvement and
improving public policy
performance.



- 13 -
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned         Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      --           November 1986
Preparation                                      --          Nov. 1986 - Apr. 1987
Appraisal                                        --          October 1987
Negotiations                                     --          May 2-11, 1988
Board Presentation                               --          June 9, 1988
Loan Signing                                     --          September 21, 1988
Loan Effectiveness                          January 1989     May31, 1989
Loan Closing                             December31, 1993   December31, 1997
Project Completion                       December 31, 1993   December31, 1997
TABLE 4. LoAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year        Appraisal Estimate           Actual i        Actual as % of
Estimate
1989                   30.00                  15.12                50%
1990                  123.00                 24.93                 20%
1991                  161.00                 35.86                 22%
1992                  181.00                 62.60                 35%
1993                  193.00                  86.83                45%
1994                  195.00                108.28                 56%
1995                    --                   119.01                61%
1996                    --                   154.73                79%
1997                    --                   168.30                86%
1998                    --                  168.64 2               86%
Final Disbursement:   March 24, 1998
1 US$26.0 million canceled, December 21, 1994.
2 Loan balance of US$0.36 million will be canceled.



- 14 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Component                          Irrigated Area (ha)           Producers Benefited
Estimate        Actual         Estimate         Actual
Electrification                      --          194,355            --             5,705
Hydraulic Works                      --          104,419            --           10,743
Total                            500,000         298,774         55,065          16,448
TABLE 6. STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Contract No.   Study                                                             State
1  001/88          Preparation of Environmental Assessment of the Piunduva River    PR
2  068/91          Feasibility study for Projeto Ouro Verde (technical, economic and  BA
environmental aspects) in the municipalities of Formoso do Rio Preto
and Riachao das Neves
3  069/91          Feasibility study for Projeto Brasil Central (technical, economic and  BA
environmental aspects) in the municipality of Formoso do Rio Preto
4  094/88          Study on the availability of water resources for Projeto Cariru  DF
5  120/87          Evaluation of water resources and soil studies in State of Mato Grosso    MT
6  132/87          Implementation of meteorological studies                         MT
7  221/87          Preparation of State Irrigation Plan                             MT
8  178/87          Preparation of Executive Project in the Projeto Distrito Verde de  MS
Dourados
9  143/89          Identification of irrigation areas - survey, allocation and selection of  MS
potential areas based on natural resources data
10  188/86          Surface water study in State of Minas Gerais                     MG
11  249/87          Feasibility study - identification of focal areas for irrigation  MG
development
12  134/89          Survey of underground water levels for irrigation in Sao Francisco  MG
basin
13  139/89          Study of demand on water resources in Rio Verde Grande basin     MG
14  309/88          Preparation of macro-drainage projects in river stream basins in the  PR
municipalities of Mandirituba, Campo Largo and Araucaria
15  040/89          Survey and study of natural resources - updating information of the  PR
Atlas Agroclimatol6gico do Estado; processing of existing data in the 4
stations of the Agrarian Institute of Parana
16  198/86          Technical assistance and studies for the preparation of the State  RJ
Irrigation Plan
17  185/87          Assessment of concentration areas in the North and Northwest     RJ
18  190/87          Cartographic mapping and rainfall pattem studies                 RJ
19  122/89          Environmental assessment in the Lagoa Feia basin and             RJ
aerophotogrametic survey of the Sao Joao, Una and Macae river basins
20  129/89          Improvement and implementation of institutional development studies    RJ
specified in 1989 POA
21  159/89          Monitoring of activities under tie State Irrigation Program      RJ
22  026/87          7 feasibility studies in the Santa Maria river and 6 hydrological surveys   RS
in the Santa Rosa, Camandai, Piratini, Toinhas, Rolante Guapore and
Arroio Grande river basins
23  187/87          Feasibility studies for Arroio Taquaremb6, hydrological survey of  RS
Guapore river and 5 hydrological surveys of Camaqua, Amandau, Santo
Cristo rivers and Sutil, Velhaco and Botucarai streams
24  78/88           5 hydrological studies in the Camaqua/Butui, Jaguari/Taquara,    RS
Ibirapuita, Jacui, Sao Bento, Butia and Jacuizinho river basins



- 15 -
Contract No.   Study                                                         State
25  47/89          2 hydrological studies and Irrigation Plan in the Quarai, Ibirocai and  RS
Touro Passo river basins
26  48/89          Preparation of Terms of Reference and bidding documents for river  RS
dams, bridges and dredges
27  065/89         Environmental assessment studies for VAC 06, VAC 07 and VAC 04    RS
river dams and preparation of engineering project for the Gravatai river
dam
28  023/91         Feasibility studies on the integration of irrigation and drainage system    RS
with the generation of electric energy for Projeto Sao Sepe
29  026/91         Feasibility studies for the construction of river dam and distribution  RS
canal. The study declared the Arroio Lajeado project to be unfeasible.
30  012/92         Feasibility studies for the construction of river dam in Butui  RS
31  016/92         Feasibility studies on the use of 59,000 ha in the Santa Maria river  RS
basin
32  207/87         Socio-economic studies                                         SC
33  025/87         Agrometeorological studies                                     SC
34  071/88         Hydroagricultural studies                                      SC
35  045/89         Infrastructure studies                                         SC
36  028/90         Technical studies and terms of reference for the construction of river  SC
dam in ArarangA river
37  118/89         Assessment of irrigation equipment industry in Brazil          SP
38  176/87         Agrometeorological studies in irrigated areas in the State of Sao Paulo   SP
and semi-detailed soil survey



-16-
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs'
(US$ million)
Expenditure               Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Category        1BRD      State   Federal   Total    IBRD       State   Federal   Total
Govts.    Govt.                       Govts.    Govt.
1. Electrification    138.0    169.0      31.1    338.1    104.1    167.4        16.2    287.6
2. Hydraulic           40.3      33.2       0.5     74.0      19.7      10.9      9.1      39.7
Infrastructure
3. Institutional        16.5      2.3       4.0     22.9      45.2       1.2      4.5      50.9
Development
Total           194.8    204.5      35.6    435.0    169.0    179.5       29.8    378.3
US$26.0 million canceled, December 21, 1994.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source               Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
Local    Foreign      Total       Local    Foreign       Total
Costs      Costs                  Costs      Costs
IBRD                     66.0       129.0     195.0        n/a        n/a        169.0
Federal Government       36.0        --        36.0        n/a        n/a        29.8
State Government        204.0        --       204.0        n/a        n/a        179.5
Total                   306.0       129.0    435.0         n/a        n/a        378.3



- 17-
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR I PROJECT
(Loan 2950-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original       Revised                  Description
Covenant    Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment                        of
Agreement    Section              Type         Status        Date           Date                    Covenant                               Comments
Loan          3.01                  5            C                                      MOA to carry out project with due    Complied with.
diligence and efficiency.
3.02                 5            C                                      Procurement according to Schedule 4   Complied with.
of LA.
3.04 (a) (i)         5            C                                      Establish and maintain consultative  Need to maintain Consultative Council
council.                             was deleted in the July 1992 amendment
3.04 (a) (ii)        5            C                                      Establish and maintain in PRONI a    Unit established in January 1991
project unit.
3.04 (b) (i)         9            C                                      PRONI to obtain annually a draft     Complied with.
POA from each state.
3.04 (b) (ii)        9            C                                      PRONI to consolidate POAs.           Complied with.
3.04 (b) (iii)       9            C                                      PRONI to submit draft consolidated    No longer required
POA to Consultative Council for
review.
Loan          3.04 (b) (iv)         9            C                                      PRONI to submit draft consolidated    Complied with.
(Continued)                                                                             POA to Bank for review by
September 30 each year.
Covenant Type: I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the
Project or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; 11
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; t2 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C         = covenant complied with                             NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                          NYD      = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                            SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 18 -
Original       Revised                 Description
Covenant    Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment                        of
Agreement   Section               Type         Status        Date           Date                    Covenant                               Comments
3.04 (c)             9           CD                                      Borrower to approve consolidated     Complied with delays.
POA by 12/15 of each year for next
year.
3.04 (d)             5            C                                      Borrower to ensure that project is   Complied with.
implemented in accordance with
approved POA.
3.04 (e)           6, 7, 8        C                                      PU to furnish Bank for its review
proposed expenditures for parts A
and B which may adversely affect
indigenous population or wildlands
or involve involuntary resettlement or
clearing of forests and vegetation
until environmental guidelines and
measures are in effect.
3.05 (a)             5            C                                      Borrower to enter into coordinating  Complied with; but DNOS ceased to
arrangements with ELETROBRAS         exist. DNOS was substituted by state
and DNOS.                            agencies acceptable to the Bank
3.05 (b)             5            C                                      Borrower not to change or fail to    Complied with.
enforce such arrangements.
3.06                 10           C                                      Borrower to ensure provision and     Complied with.
coordination of research, extension
and training services to support
project.
Loan          3.07 (a) (i)         10            C                                     Cause ELETROBRAS to review            Complied with.
(Continued)                                                                             plans for works under Part A to
ensure compliance with
environmental and technical
guidelines, on an annual basis.
Covenant Type: I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the
Project or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; II
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C         = covenant complied with                             NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                          NYD    = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                            SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 19 -
Original       Revised                   Description
Covenant      Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment                        of
Agreement    Section               Type         Status         Date           Date                     Covenant                                Comments
3.07 (a) (ii)        5, 9          C                                       Cause ELETROBRAS, in                   Complied with.
conjunction with PRONI, to
supervise implementation of Part A
of the Project.
3.07 (b)            5, 10          C                                       Borrower to enter into operating       Complied with.
agreements with each SEC for
grouping procurement of goods under
Part A.
3.08 (a)              6            C                                       Borrower to carry out study to         Preparation of guidelines completed
prepare environmental guidelines for
irrigation development and to prepare
effective management, monitoring
and enforcement measures (Part C.3).
3.08 (b) (i)          9            C                                       Borrower to furnish by 9/30/88, draft   Complied with.
TOR to design a system for
evaluation of socio-economic impact
of irrigation activities.
3.08 (b) (ii)         9            C                                       Borrower to furnish final TOR by       Complied with.
12/31/88.
Loan           3.08 (b) (iii)        9             C                                      Borrower to hire consultants to        Complied with.
(Continued)                                                                               design such system by April 30,
1989.
3.08 (b) (iv)         9            C                                       Borrower to furnish final design,      Complied with.
acceptable to Bank, by October 31,
1989.
3.08 (b) (v)        9, 10          C                                       Borrower to implement such system.   In compliance.
Covenant Type: I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the
Project or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; 11
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C          = covenant complied with                              NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                            NYD      = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                              SOON    = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 20 -
Original       Revised                   Description
Covenant    Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment                          of
Agreement    Section               Type         Status         Date           Date                     Covenant                                Comments
3.09                  5            C                                       Borrower to enter into state           Complied with.
"convenio" with each participating
state and any other executing agency
in accordance with Schedule 6.
3.10 (i)             5, 9          C                                       Borrower to cause ECEs to submit to   Complied with.
PRONI quarterly progress reports.
3.10 (ii)            5, 9          C                                       Borrower to cause each executing       Complied with.
agency to submit to PRONI quarterly
progress reports.
3.10 (iii)           5, 9          C                                       Borrower to submit through PRONI    Complied with.
every six months a consolidated
progress report.
Loan           3.11                  10            C                                       Borrower to cause all works to be     Complied with.
(Continued)                                                                                made, operated and maintained in
accordance with appropriate
agricultural, irrigation, engineering,
public utility and environmental
practices.
4.01 (a)              3            C                                       Borrower to maintain separate          Complied with.
records and accounts to reflect
operations, resources and
expenditures for project.
4.01 (b) (i)          I             C                                      Borrower to cause records and          Complied with.
accounts to be audited each year by
independent auditors.
Covenant Type: I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial perfornance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the
Project or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; II
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C          = covenant complied with                              NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                            NYD      = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                              SOON    = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 21 -
Original       Revised                   Description
Covenant    Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment                          of
Agreement    Section               Type         Status         Date           Date                     Covenant                                Comments
4.01 (b) (ii)         I            C                                       Borrower to furnish to the Bank no     Complied with.
later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year a certified copy of
audit reports.
4.01 (b) (iii)        I            C                                       Borrower to furnish to the Bank other  Complied with.
information concerning records and
accounts as requested by Bank.
4.01 (c) (i)          I            C                                       Borrower to cause to maintain          Complied with.
records and accounts reflecting
expenditures covered under SOE.
Loan           4.01 (c) (ii)         I             C                                       Retain and cause to be retained all   Complied with.
(Continued)                                                                                records evidencing such expenditures
for one year after Bank has received
last audit report.
4.01 (c) (iii)        I            C                                       Borrower to enable Bank's              Complied with.
representative to examine such
records.
4.01 (c) (iv)         I             C                                      Borrower to ensure that records on     Complied with.
SOEs are included under annual audit
and that audit reports include
separate opinion on reliability of
SOE.
Covenant Type:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the
Project or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; 11
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C          = covenant complied with                               NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                            NYD      = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                              SOON    = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 22 -
TABLE 9. ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Table 9A: Adjustment of Appraisal Production Systems
Incremental project benefits were calculated based on the difference between benefits from an
inputted "without project" (WO) situation, and benefits projected at full development for
production models in the "with project" (WP) situation.
|  Crop/Rotation  || WO land use               WP Irrigation System
Crop/Rotation                           South      Southeast        West
___________________________________                 Central   J
Rice               Idle                     Fl                         Fl
Rice/Beans         Idle                                 S / P         S / P
Non-irrigated                       P / G           P
Irrigated                            p              p
Corn/Beans         Idle                    S / G
Non-Irrigated                        Fu            Fu
Fruits/Vegetables    Idle                   G
l______________    Irrigated                 S          S / Fu           S
Fl: flooding ; Fu: furrow; G: other gravity; S: conventional sprinkler; P: center pivot
Table 9B: Incremental Gross Margin per Hectare
Crop            Region       Land Use      Irrigation      IGM / ha
or Rotation                       WO           System           (US$)
Rice                  S            Idle              Fl                 327
Rice                  WC           Idle              Fl                 285
Rice/Beans            SE           Idle              S                  499
Rice/Beans            SE           Idle              P                  499
Rice/Beans            SE           Irrigated         P                   72
Rice/Beans            WC           Idle              S                  103
Rice/Beans            WC           Idle              P                  103
Rice/Beans            WC           Irrigated         P                  162
Com/Beans             S            Idle              G                  652
Com/Beans             SE           Non-lrr.          P                  652
Com/Beans             SE           Non-irr.          G                  459
Corn/Beans            WC           Non-Irr.          P                  191
Corn/Beans             S           Irrigated         S                   39
Veg./Fruits           S            Irrigated        G                10,974
Veg./Fruits            SE          Idle.            Fu               11,005
Veg./Fruits            SE          Irrigated        S                 7,210
Veg./Fruits           WC           Irrigated         S                  585
Veg./Fruits            S           Irrigated         Fu               8,377
Veg./Fruits            SE          Irrigated         Fu                 420
Veg./Fruits           WC           Irrigated         Fu                 585
S: South; SE: Southeast; WC: West Central
Fl: flooding; Fu: furrow; G: other gravity; S: conventional sprinkler; P: center pivot



- 23 -
Table 9C: Total Net Incremental Benefits
Year       Gross Inc.    Off-farm      On-farm        Total        Total
I  Benefits    Investment   Investment   Inc. Costs   Net Inc. Ben.
1986                       15,742.4                   16,057.2    -16,057.2
1987          4,609.0     21,033.9       8,578.4      30,593.8    -25,984.8
1988         20,697.8     30,826.7      29,217.0     62,479.5     -41,781.7
1989         42,514.4     35,724.6      53,452.9     93,860.3     -51,345.9
1990         84,142.0     25,929.8      74,660.9     107,932.8    -23,790.8
1991        105,443.6     10,623.4      23,217.6     42.091.7      63,351.9
1992        126,304.5     11,470.5      25,320.7     46,030.4      80,274.1
1993        136,890.6     22,134.5       9,538.1     41,640.5      95,250.1
1994        145,587.5     63,910.7      10,010.3     85,467.1      60,120.4
1995        154,112.0     40,183.2       8,450.7     61,257.6      92,854.3
1996        162,331.3     22,860.1       8,869.0     45,097.6     117,233.7
1997        170,957.4     25,229.3       9,308.1      57,290.4    113,667.0
1998        180,010.5     47.321.4       9,768.8     101,744.9     78,265.6
1999        189,511.8                   10,252.4      79,475.2    110,036.6
2000        199,483.4                   10,759.9     101,539.4     97,944.0
2001        208,284.2                   11,292.5      50,994.7    157,289.5



- 24 -
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
FISCAL                                    Negotiations                                  TOTAL
YEAR                                    through Board
Preparation     Appraisal       Approval       Supervision   Completion
STAFF WEEKS
1987         28.0            16.0                                                        44.0
1988                        30.1            15.0              1.5                        46.6
1989                                                         15.2                         15.2
1990                                                         24.1                        24.1
1991                                                         23.1                        23.1
1992                                                         16.8                         16.8
1993                                                          8.6                         8.6
1994                                                         10.7                        10.7
1995                                                         23.1                        23.1
1996                                                         13.0                        13.0
1997                                                          6.9           0.3           7.2
1998                                                          1.6           7.2           8.8
Total         28.0           46.1           15.0            144.6            7.5         241.2
USs'000
1987         57.7           33.2                                                         90.9
1988                        63.6           32.0               3.1                        98.7
1989                                                         32.9                        32.9
1990                                                         58.0                        58.0
1991                                                         58.5                        58.5
1992                                                         45.1                        45.1
1993                                                         23.8                        23.8
1994                                                         23.3                        23.3
1995                                                         12.6                        12.6
1996                                                          7.7                         7.7
1997                                                         18.4           1.0          19.4
1998                                                          6.6           1.0          23.0
Total         57.7           96.8           32.0            290.0           17.4         493.9
Source: FACT



- 25 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Days   Specialized    Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/   No. of    in    staff skills     Impl.     Develop.       Types of
Project Cycle    Year   persons  field   represented      Status    Objectives    problems
Through           9/86       1       8      InstDev        n/a         n/a           n/a
Appraisal        11/86      8       25     Ag; AgEc;       n/a         n/a           n/a
Ec; Eng;
lnstDev;
IrrEng
2/87      2       10    Ec; PowEng       n/a         n/a           n/a
Appraisal        4/87       9       26    Ag; Ec; Eng;     n/a         n/a           n/a
through Board                               InstDev;
Approval                                  IrrEng; Legal
9/87      4       18    Ec; InstDev;     n/a         n/a           n/a
IrrEng
5/88      1        8      InstDev        n/a         n/a           n/a
Board Approval   10/88      2       15       Ag; Ec         2           2           Man
through           5/89       1       5       IrrEng         2           2          Fin; Man
Effectiveness
Supervision       9/89      2       11     Ec; IrrEng       2           1       Fin; Inst; Proc
6/90      3       20    Ec; IrrEng;       3           2       Fin; Inst; Man
Man
10/90      2       8     Ec; IrrEng       3           2          Fin; Man
2/91      1       11       IrrEng         3           2         Fin; Man
6/91      2       11   IrrEng; Man        3           2       Fin; Inst; Man
9/91       1      11       IrrEng         2           2            Inst
2/92      1       16       IrrEng         2           2         Inst; Man
6/92      2       14   AgEc; IrrEng       2           2            Inst
10/92     2        18      IrrEng;        2           2       - Fin; Inst
WatRes
3/93      1       17       IrrEng         2           2          Fin; Inst
11/93     2        2       IrrEng         2           2         Man; Tech
8/94      4       11       IrrEng;        S           S       -    --
WatRes
10/95      1       7       WatRes         S           S            Inst
4/96       1       5      WatRes          S           S            Fin
1/97      1       4       WatRes          S          S             --
10/97      1       5       WatRes         S           S             --



- 26 -                 Appendix I
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR I PROJECT
(Loan 2950-BR)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO ICR



-27 -                         Appendix I
(Translation)
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT,
WATER RESOURCES AND THE LEGAL AMAZON
Secretariat of Water Resources
LETTER/SRH/N 184/98                        Brasilia, July 24, 1998
To:
Mr. Luiz Gabriel Azevedo
Team Leader, Water Resources Consultant
World Bank
SCN Q. 02 Lote A
Ed. Corporate Financial Center, Cj. 303/304
70.712-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Dear Sir:
Ref.: Northeast I Irrigation Project (Loan 3170-BR): Comments on Implementation
Completion Report - Loan Agreement 2950-BR
Per your request of June 17, I herewith send our comments on the above-mentioned
Report.
Following a review of the ICR for Loan 2950-BR, subniitted by the World Bank, we
present the following comments:
1.   In general terms, the Bank's report reflects the status of implementation of Loan 2950-
BR.
2.    However, several points merit mention and/or comments, as described below:
2.1    Item n 5 of the EVALUATION SUMMARY refers to benefits generated
by electrical support to the Barreiras and Formoso H projects in the state of Bahia
and to Baixo Acaraui and Tabuleiros de Russas in the state of Ceara. As we
understand it, there was an error on the part of the consultants, because these
projects, although financed by the Bank, are not part of Loan 2950-BR but rather of
Loan 3170-BR.
2.2    In item n 22 - Part I of the ICR, we think there may have been a
misunderstanding regarding data reliability. During the meeting with the
consultants who prepared the ICR, it was explained to them that, due to the lack of
project monitoring in the first two years of implementation, this information was
very difficult to recover and, at the Bank's recommendation, two consortia were
hired to carry out this work. These consortia asked the states to provide information
which, after careful checking, was corrected in cases of inconsistencies or errors.
After the data was collected, a system was established to monitor and supervise
project actions, on a quarterly, semi-annual and annual basis, for the three



- 28 -                        Appendix I
components (electrical, hydraulic and institutional), which allowed SRH to keep
project execution under control and take the necessary measures to solve any
problems that might arise.
2.3    In comments on problems concerning institutional and political instability
which occurred during the execution period of Loan 2950-BR, it was not taken into
consideration that, despite the structural changes that took place, SRH kept the
technical staff who were responsible for project monitoring, thereby preserving
institutional memory and achieving the positive results indicated in the evaluations.
2.4    The Report presents an economic reassessment whose rates are very close
to those obtained in the 1993 mid-term evaluation. Besides the adoption of the
same basic premises that determined the methodology of this work, the Report
confirmed the project's sustainability and SRH's correctness in the planning,
implementation and execution of activities under Loan 2950-BR.
Please feel free to contact me if you require any further clarification on this matter.
Sincerely,
Jos6 Raimundo Machado dos Santos
Director
Hydro-Agricultural Development Department



- 29 -
Appendix I
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR I PROJECT
(Loan 2950-BR)
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
1.    The economic rate of return was re-estimated based on the original types of
production models used for appraisal. The re-estimated rate of return is 30.0%, compared
with the appraisal estimate of 20.6%. Although development of private irrigation spurred
by the project was less than expected (as measured by area expansion), and overall
economic impact lower than projected (as measured by the net present value (NPV)), the
economic rate of return was greater due to a large degree to lower on-farm investment
costs.
2.    Incremental project benefits were calculated based on the difference between
benefits from an imputed "without project" (WO) situation, and benefits projected at full
development for production models in the "with project" (WP) situation.
3.    The WP production models are based on the following assumptions:
(a)   in the case of new irrigation, farm models assume that land was idle
before;
(b)   in the case of already irrigated land, farm models assume two different
basic WO situations:
(i)   prior irrigation was based on fuel powered equipment; and
(ii)  (prior irrigation was limited due to infrastructure constraints
(critical water availability or drainage during certain periods of the
year).
4.    The economic re-evaluation followed the same methodological approach as the
ex-ante evaluation, with due consideration of the actual development of irrigated areas,
and distribution of crops and cropping patterns. Given the discrepancy in irrigated area
covered by the project (both new and existing) reported by the Mid Term Review and the
Annual Operating Reports, projections for the re-evaluation were based on data from the
Mid Term Review. The analytical approach considered the country as the unit of
analysis, and organized production data according to "regional" production systems
models. Cropping patterns in the WP models assume basically the same crop rotations
considered during appraisal, distributed according to what could really be seen in the
field.



- 30 -
Appendix I
5.     Original production models were adjusted to reflect the most frequent irrigation
systems used in different regions of the country. Production models identified during
appraisal with the letters "a", "b", and "c", were considered to be the systems prevailing
respectively in the South, Southeast and West Central. They correspond to systems with
no irrigation and idle land in the WO situation. Irrigation for systems 3-5 of appraisal
was considered to be driven by fuel power.
6.     Main adaptations to the original production systems include:
(a)    rice cultivated with flooding methods ("paddy rice") was considered the
predominant crop in the south;
(b)    production systems # 3 and # 4 were applied to the Southeast and West
Central regions;
(c)    production system # 5 was applied to the South, Southeast and West
Central regions;
(d)    soybeans and wheat were disregarded, due to their small participation in
the Project;
(e) - the soybeans/corn/wheat crop rotation was replaced by a corn/beans
rotation; and
(f)    the rice/beans crop rotation in the South was replaced by a corn/beans
rotation.
Table C.1 - Adjustment of Appraisal Production Systems
Crop/Rotation      WO                WP    irrigation    System
land use      South       Southeast   West Central
Rice            Idle              Fl                         Fl
Rice/Beans      Idle                           S / p        S / P
Non-irrigated                 P / G          P
Irrigated                       P            P
Corn/Beans      Idle             S / G
Non-Irrigated                  Fu            Fu
Fruits/Vegetables  Idle           G
Irrigated         S           S / Fu         S
Fl: flooding; Fu: furrow; G: other gravity; S: conventional sprinkler; P: center pivot
7.     The occurrence and distribution of the different production systems were reduced
to the most conspicuous ones. This was based on the information provided by the
National Cadastre of Irrigants and the Project Mid Term Review of 1993, which show
that four irrigation systems account for approximately 97% of the irrigated area covered
by the project. These systems are: center pivots, conventional sprinklers, flooding and
furrow irrigation. The states of Bahia, MaranhAo, Piaui and Tocantins (which were



- 31 -
Appendix I
included in the project at a later stage) were disregarded for the purpose of assessing the
distribution of the different systems for the economic re-evaluation.
8.     Data from the Mid Term Review was tabulated in order to assess the importance
of the different production systems across the regions initially covered by the project. It
was assessed that the systems portrayed during appraisal (modified as shown above),
covered 89% of the area under irrigation . The different combinations of crop rotation,
prior land use, and irrigation systems were then redistributed by region so that the overall
distribution would be comparable to that envisioned during appraisal.
9.     As in the original appraisal, no externalities were considered. However there is
good evidence that benefits derived from project interventions in rural areas were also
accrued by non-rural areas, but they were not taken into consideration for this re-
evaluation (e.g., access to power lines that would not have been built otherwise, benefits
from reduced flooding conditions in urban areas thanks to dredging and improvement of
river embankments in rural areas).
Table C.2 - Incremental Gross Margin per Hectare
Crop       Region    Land use   Irrigation    IGM / ha
or Rotation               WO          System       (US$)
Rice         S          Idle        Fl                 327
Rice         WC         Idle        Fl                 285
Rice/Beans    SE        Idle        S                  499
Rice/Beans    SE        Idle        p                  499
Rice/Beans    SE        Irrigated   p                   72
Rice/Beans    WC        Idle        S                  103
Rice/Beans    WC        Idle        p                  103
Rice/Beans    WC        Irrigated   p                  162
Corn/Beans   S          Idle        G                  652
Corn/Beans   SE         Non-Irr.    p                  652
Corn/Beans   SE         Non-Irr.    G                  459
Corn/Beans   WC         Non-Irr.    p                  191
Corn/Beans   S          Irrigated   S                   39
Veg./Fruits    S        Irrigated   G                10,974
Veg./Fruits   SE        Idle.       Fu               11,005
Veg./Fruits   SE        Irrigated   S                7,210
Veg./Fruits    WC       Irrigated   S                  585
Veg./Fruits    S        Irrigated   Fu               8,377
Veg./Fruits   SE        Irrigated    Fu                420
Veg./Fruits    WC       Irrigated    Fu                585
S: South; SE: Southeast; WC: West Central
Fl: flooding; Fu: furrow; G: other gravity; S: conventional sprinkler; P: center pivot
10.    On-farm investments were calculated based on prices collected across the
different states, and adjusted to reflect the decline (up to 30% to 40%) in real prices of
equipment (and works ) recorded between 1986 and 1996. Annual O&M costs for on-
farm investments were estimated at 2% and 4% of investment costs for equipment and



- 32 -
Appendix I,
hydraulic works respectively. Equipment replacement was considered at full cost after a
ten-year period. All monetary amounts are expressed in 1996 US dollars.
11.   Off-farm investments were taken from the Annual Project Implementation
Reports. Since there was no monitoring system in place until 1990, financial outlays
reported for the period 1986/90, were distributed according to the following profile
(starting in 1986): 10%, 15%, 25%, 30%, and 20%. A one-year lag was considered
between financial outlays and incorporation of lands under irrigation, and an extra lag
was considered between on-farn investment and full development of production systems.
This extra lag covered a four-year time period for production systems developed over idle
land under the WO project situation, and a one-year time period for production systems
that had previous irrigation, but incorporated new crops. Annual O&M costs for off-farm
investments were estimated at 2% of investment costs.
12.   Crop budgets were taken from public and private agencies working in the
different States covered by the project, and prices were taken from CEA/FGV (Funda,co
Getfilio Vargas) whose primary sources are state technical assistance and extension
agencies. Product prices reflect average marketing conditions for an average year and,
when appropriate, they include premiums derived from better quality and larger
availability during off season, due to the use of irrigation. In other respects, financial
values are used as a proxy for economic values. This is because: (a) there is substantial
inter-regional labor mobility in Brazil and low levels of unemployment; thus market
wage rates are assumed to reflect the opportunity cost of labor; and (b) the trade regime is
very liberal, meaning that market prices of inputs and outputs are distorted to only a very
small degree by taxes and subsidies.
13.   The following table shows the amounts of Gross Incremental Benefits involved
along with Total Incremental Costs and Net Incremental Benefits. The Net Present Value
of Total Net Incremental Benefits amounts to US$221.5 million, or 53% lower than
projected. A sensitivity analysis was carried out to compare how stable project results
turned out to be in comparison to appraisal estimates. It was calculated that estimated
project results are more stable than appraisal estimates, with switching values of - 34%
for gross incremental benefits, and 51% for total incremental costs, compare to appraisal
values of - 28% and 40% respectively.
14.  In summary, project's impact was half that expected, which is pretty much in line
with its physical outcome (in terms of hectares benefited at closing). Net Present Value
is the worth of the project and it is the main indicator used to choose among different
projects or alternatives. The ERR is a more misleading indicator, and in this case it was
influenced by better farm level returns (supported by lower investment costs and better
gross benefits per hectare), and a more "benign" project expenditure profile (i.e., because
the project took longer to implement, costs were spread over a longer period of time).
15.   Rough calculations indicate that had on-farm investments not fallen by 30%-40%,
the ERR would be between 23.5% and 21.5% (and, NPV would have been a low
US$ 130-150 million). This just emphasizes both the importance of the decrease in those



- 33 -
Appendix I
costs on estimated economic outcome, and the much heavier weight that on-farmn returns
have on overall economic performance. It also raises the question of why irrigation did
not expand at a faster rate if it was good business. With the same set of numbers used in
the ICR, had irrigation evolved in synch with laying of the power lines, the project would
have ended with a NPV close to that of the SAR, but the ERR would have been low.
The projections of number of potential beneficiaries included in the SAR was too
optimistic. Power lines might be installed, but engaging people with the necessary
capital, interest and skills in high value irrigation is a different matter. The counter
argument is that farm level economic data used is off and does not represent reality.
16.    The economic evaluation included in this ICR is a technical refinement of the one
included in the borrower's report, which had some deficiencies. The analysis is a
technically sound analysis, but it is based on available information about the development
outcome of the project; hence, it is as good as the data it is based upon
Table C.3 - Total Net Incremental Benefits
Year       Gross Inc.    Off-farm       On-farm        Total         Total
Benefits    Investment   Investment   Inc. Costs  I Net Inc. Ben.
1986                         15,742.4                    16,057.2     -16,057.2
1987            4,609.0      21,033.9       8,578.4      30,593.8     -25,984.8
1988           20,697.8      30,826.7      29,217.0      62,479.5     -41,781.7
1989           42,514.4      35,724.6      53,452.9      93,860.3     -51,345.9
1990           84,142.0      25,929.8      74,660.9     107,932.8     -23,790.8
1991          105,443.6      10,623.4      23,217.6      42,091.7      63,351.9
1992          126,304.5      11,470.5      25,320.7      46,030.4      80,274.1
1993          136,890.6      22,134.5       9,538.1      41,640.5      95,250.1
1994          145,587.5      63,910.7      10,010.3      85,467.1      60,120.4
1995          154,112.0      40,183.2       8,450.7      61,257.6      92,854.3
1996          162,331.3      22,860.1       8,869.0      45,097.6     117,233.7
1997          170,957.4      25,229.3       9,308.1      57,290.4     113,667.0
1998          180,010.5      47,321.4       9,768.8     101,744.9      78,265.6
1999          189,511.8                    10,252.4      79,475.2     110,036.6
2000          199,483.4                    10,759.9     101,539.4      97,944.0
2001          208,284.2                    11,292.5      50,994.7     157,289.5
Net Present Value at OCC 11%     US$ 221.5 million
Internal Rate of Return                :30.0 %



___________________   ___________________________________                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD   20841
(VENEZUELA                       60-                                                                                     40(REC  BA
' jV E N E Z ~~~~~~UIELA                                                                   )                        sRNM(ui: S 00 B R A  Z I L_IBD28
;. 'SUR INAME\GUIANA,                                       IRRIGATION SUB-SECTOR LOAN
A     LA  VTr    s  EA         R   G A        D   NARTR
AM E R I CAK              |        1           Dore o A eg 3<  f  't;00000 00 0 0 0    0  0                   Regicn DounRd)obo Pesso
<,>/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SO  L -V    R  a  OjiDETEs0j;iR                                                                                                  2003rauioSceBndis
i  f ;E f i ig r Oe ,^ f a e r; S . 92  Ue  Un   o r r   I   ~~\\ C/ j~                                                    Proeu ar4 ;JilE    O  0C 30 -   n eano  Boundaries
64 ro  oOI
BRAZIL  A  R  G  E  N   T  I~~~~~~~~~~~~'N   A  U'T                                            I I  CEBRADOS~~G                   DO   ORT
*    State Capitalsata
A                  op"t.    ~     ~     ~ ~       \ ~ o        g                                                            eia  ondna
V      VIb
: :;X00:0 i;  t : iL ^..> t ;  0 0. .<;>v.r< URUGUAY                                         t                                ft;0 EX0Rivers 1
_   *} >   000 0   70                              5N\                     >   ; ' t~~~~~~00    t$0'                       40b                                  3   NVMERIi
r0eOtE  10



