Document of
T|he World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 7161-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
May 16, 1988
Brazil Agriculture Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
C-.rrency Unit     -    Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00            a   CzS 51.7 1/
Cz$1.00            -    US$0.02
Cz$l million       -    US$19,325
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
FISCAL YEAR
Govermnent of Brazil        -       January 1 to December 31
1/ Average exchange rate at time of appraisal (September/October 1987).



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CODEVASF              Companhia do Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao
Francisco
(SAo Francisco Development Company)
CONAMA                Conselho Nacional de Meio Ambiente
(National Environment Council)
DNOCS                 Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra Secas
(National Department for Anti-Drought Works)
DNOS                  Departamento Nacional de Obras de Saneamento
(National Department of Sanitation)
ECE                   Entidades de Coordenagao Estadual
(State Coordinating Entities)
ELETROBRAS            Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A.
(Brazilian Power Plants, S.A.)
EMATER                Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extenslo Rural
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA               Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER              Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e
Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company)
ICB                  Licita,ao Internacional
International Competitive Bidding
LCB                   Licita,Ao Local
(Local Competitive Bidding)
MINTER                Ministerio do Interior
(Ministry of the Interior)
MHU                   Ministerio de Habita,cao, Urbanismo e Meio Ambiente
(Ministry of Hous'ng, Urban Development and
Environment)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Glossary of Acronyms (cont.)
PMU                 Unidade de Coordenagao do Project
(Project Management Unit)
POA                 Plano Operativo Anual
(Annual Operating Plan)
PROFIR              Programa de Financiamento para Equipamento de
Irrigacao
(Program for Financing Irrigation Equipment
PROINE              Programa de IrrigagAo do Nordeste
(Irrigation Program for the Northeast)
PRONI               Programa Nacional de Irrigag&o
(National Irrigation Program)
PROVARZEAS          Programa Nacional para o Aproveitamento Racional de
Varzeas IrrigAveis
(Program for the Development of Valley Bottoms)
RGS                 Rio Grande do Sul
(the State of Rio Grande do Sul)
SEC                 State Electric Company
SEMA                Secretaria de Meio-ambiente
(Environmental Secretariat)



BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................                  1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ......................................... 3
Agriculture in the Economy ...................................... 3
Agricultural Development Policy ................................. 3
The Irrigation Subsector ........................................ 4
Irrigation Institutions ......................................... 5
Extension Research and Training ................................. 6
Production of Irrigation Equipment .............................. 7
Bank Role in Agricultural Lending ............................... 7
III.  THE PROJECT ..................................................... 8
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin ....................... 8
B:ief Description ............................................... 9
Detailed Features .                                                    9
Complementary Activities .12
Project Costs and Financing .13
Procurement .14
Disbursements .15
Special Account .16
Accounts and Audit .16
Project Implementation .17
Project Benefits and Justification ............................. 19
IV.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............. 21
ANNEX I    PRONI: IMPLEMENTATION AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ......................................... 25
ANNEX II   ECONOMIC L?ATE OF RETURN ............................. 27
ANNEX III PROJECT COSTS                        ..                     29
Table 1.1  -  Project Components by Year ............ 29
Table 1.2  -  Summary Accounts by Year .............. 30
Table 1.3  -  Detailed Cost Table-Electrification ... 31
Table 1.4  -  Detailed Cost Table-Hydraulic
Infrastructure ........................ 32
Table 1.5  -  Detailed Cost Table - Institutional
Development ........................... 33
Table 1.6  -  Financing Plan by Summary Accounts .... 34



Table of Contents (cont.)
ANNEX IV   ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF BANK DISBURSEMENTS ............ 35
ANNEX V    DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE ................. 36
MAP:       IBRD 20841 Irrigation Subsector Loan



BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Federative Republic of Brazil.
Executing         The Minister of Irrigation Affairs
AMencyt           in the Office of the President.
Amount:           US$195 million equivalent.
Terms:           Repayment in 15 years. including five years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:   Around 50,000 farms in 10 states of the Center-West,
Southeast and Southern Regions of the country and in the
Federal District. Direct employment would be generated
for about 20,000 farm workers and indirect employment for
40,000 workers.
Proiect
Descriptions      The project would finance a five-year time slice of the
National Irrigation Program (PRONI). The main objectives
of this Program are: (a) to develop private irrigation ia
the highlands, including the cerrados, and the flood
plains (varzeas); (b) to decentralize planning rnd
execution of irrigation investments to the state and local
levels; and (c) to prepare policies and an organizational
framework for the continued expansion of private
irrigation and improved management of water resources.
The project would comprise three main components:
(a) construction of electric power distribution lines for
pumping, mainly along water courses; (b) construction of
public drainage, small dams and other water control
structures; and (c) institutional development. On-farm
development would be financed through existing official
and commercial lines of credit. The institutional
development component would support private irrigation
initiatives, strengthen management capabilities of PRONI
and state irrigation organizations, and promote research
on irrigated agricultural production, the social and
economic impacts of expanded irrigation and the rational
management of water resources. Environmental aspects and
safeguards would receive specific attention.
Risks:            The main project risk concerns the ability of PRONI and
other federal, state and private entities to plan and
manage the project. The project has been designed to
minimize this risk by including a substantial component
for management support and institutional development.



-2-
Estimated Proiect Costs
_ _ _ _ US$ Millions - - - -
Local     Forgign     Total
1.  Electrification                  193.0       94.0        287.0
2.  Hydraulic Infrastructure          49.0       13.0         62.0
3.  Institutional DeveloPmer.         17.0        3.0         20.0
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS           259.0      110.0        369.0
Physical Contingencies          26.0       11.0         37.0
Price Contingencies             21.0        8.0         29.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            306.0      129.0        435.0 a/
Financing Plan
PRONI (federal fiscal budget)    36.0         -           36.0
States (state fiscal budgets)   204.0         -          204.0
IBRD                              66.0      129.0        195.0
TOTAL                            306.0      129.0        435.0
Estimated Disbursements (USS Millions)
Bank Fiscal Years     1989    1990    1991    1992    1993       1994
Annual                 30.0    93.0    38.0    20.0    12.0       2.0
Cumulative            30.0   123.0   161.0   181.0   193.0    195.0
Rate of Return   21Z
Mai IBRD 20841
a/ Includes taxes and duties of about US$46 million equivalent.



-3-
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
2.01      Agriculture in Brazil accounts for about 12Z of GDP, 30Z of
employment and 352 of exports. In the 19709, sectoral GDF grew at an
annual average rate of 62. This high growth rate was based primarily on
the development of export crops (soybeans, citrus, tobacco, coffee and
cocoa) and, in the latter part of the decade, on sugar cane for the alcohol
program. In the early 1980s, the sector entered a period of relative
stagnation and, apart from a modest recovery in 1984 and 1985, the output
of many basic commodities (maize, cassava, soybeans, potatoes, beans, meat
and milk) has remained virtually constant. The slowdown in the growth of
agricultural output since 1980 has resulted in a levelling off of exports
(at around US$8 billion), a decline in per capita food production, and an
increase in food imports (from arsund US$1 billion per year in 1931 and
1982 to US$2 billion in 1986).
2.02      These trends are illustrated as follows.  The total area planted
to crops in Brazil rose by 3.32 per year from 1970 to 1980 and by 1.72 per
year from 1980 to 1986. Agricultural exports rose from US$4 billion in
1975 to US$8 billion in 1980 and stayed at about that level through 1986.
In 1970, the output of the six major food crops (wheat, maize, potatoes,
rice. cassava and beans) was 57 million tons; in 1985 it was 63 million
tons, an increase of only 11Z in 15 years. During this same period, the
population increased by 45Z. Average yields of major crops (though showing
some improvement since 1980) remain low by international standards.
Agricultural Development Policy
2.03      Concerned about the decline in per capita food production, the
Government is placing greater emphasis on increasing food production for
internal consumption. This focus is reflected in the Government's targets
for agriculture, which include the production of an additional 15 million
tons of grain by 1990 and almost 50 million tons by the year 2000. These
figures are estimates of the quantities necessary to attain, and maintain,
self-sufficiency in grains. Policy measures in support of this objective
have included: (a) raising the percentage of production costs of food
crops financed with official rural credit; and (b) increasing their minimum
prices in relation to those for export crops.
2.04      At the same time, falling commodity prices and increasing
production costs have forced farmers and the Government to seek more cost-
effective technologies to intensify the use of existing farmed lands and
rural infrastructure. This intensification is evident in a growing
interest in irrigation, soil conservation, environmental protection,
livestock disease control, more efficient marketing and storage, and more
widespread application of the results of agricultural research.
2.05      In the foreseeable future, agricultural growth will depend
substantially on increased productivity, reasonable output prices that will
encourage investment, and the availability of long-term credit. Improved
technologies are already available because of impressive research results
in plant breeding, soil-water management and farming systems. For pricing



-4-
and credit policies, however, further adjustments are needed to encourage
more rapid adoption of these technologies. Historically, agricultural
pricing has been subject to frequent intervention by the Government. The
approach, for the most part, has been to keep output prices below border
parity, both to contain consumer price levels and to generate fiscal
revenues ;.a federal and state taxes on the gross value of farm output.
Current reforms being pursued by the Government and the Bank include the
introduction of more freely functioning commodity markets. Progress is
being made towards these reforms under the Credit and Marketing Reform Loan
(Ln 2727-BR), which was approved by the Board in June 1986.
2.06      With respect to rural credit policies, between US$9 and US$14
billion of official credit have been directed annually to agriculture over
L.he past ten years, particularly by the Bank of Brazil and state banks, at
subsidized rates of interest. The sources of this credit have included
compulsory applications of commercial banks' deposits, funds budgeted by
the Federal Government, and loans or grants frov. multi and bilateral
banks/agencies. In periods of high inflation, the banks have incurred
substantial losses in the value of their rural credit portfolios. The
banks have preferred also tc direct their compulsory applications to
seasonal rather than longer-term investment credit. In July 1987,
positive, real interest rates were reintroduced for most official rural
credit, including correction for inflation of outstanding balances.
Further rationalization of rural credit policies is being pursued in the
context of proposed new Bank-supported agricultural credit operations.
These operations are aimed at facilitating an expansion of commercial
(unsubsidized) credit while simultaneously contracting the supply of
official credit, and ultimately limiting the provision of official credit
to those cases that can be well justified and targeted.
The Irrigation Subsector
2.07      Brazil's irrigation subsector can be differentiated broadly into:
(a) the Northeast, with about 70,000 ha of public and 300,000 ha of private
irrigation in 1986; and (b) the Center West, Southeast and Southern states,
with about two million ha of private irrigation in 1986. Public irrigation
in the Northeast consists of medium-and large-scale, area-specific projects
with substantial investments in water storage or riverine diversions,
benefitting mostly low-income farmers. These investments have reflected a
mix of production, poverty alleviation and drought control objectives.
Private irrigatien, the bulk of which is in the South, Southeast and Center
West, consists of a broazq range of projects, some financed cooperatively on
a fairly large scale, but most being individual farm investments. Public
sector contributions to privaLt. irrigation are normally limited to the
provision of infrastructure, such as electric power distribution and
drainage of flood plains, and some credit and technical assistance.
2.08      Private irrigation includes atmost one million ha of gravity or
Low-lift systems in the states of Rio Grande do 9ul (RGS) and Santa
Catarina, and 600,000 ha of overhead pressure systems 'n the Center West
and Southern states. In RGS, flood irrigation of paddy rice is the
principal activity. The main geographic focus of new irrigation
development over the next few years is expected to be in the cerrados
(savannah lands) of the Center West states and in Minas Gerais and Sao
Paulo States. The cerrados, which are characterized by long dry winters,



-S-
have around 100 million ha that are suitable for intensive crop production.
Already, 10 million ha are under rainfed cultivation and a high proportion
of this area has access to perennial riverine water. There also will be a
strong focus on irrigated production of vegetables and fruits in the
greenbelts" near urban centers.
2.09      The attractiveness of irrigation in the cerrados is both
technical and economic. Recent technologiial advances in overhead
irrigation systems and in managing the regicn's acidic/phosphate deficient/
aluminum toxic soils have meant that vast areas now offer a good
combination of soil, climate and year-round water for cost-effective
irrigation development. Development of these lands for rainfed agriculture
costs about US$3,500 per ha, including land clearing, soil reclamation,
roads and social infrastructure. By contrast, the incremental cost of
introducing overhead irrigation on already developed areas, including
public investment in electric power distribution, is around US$1,600 per
ha. This investment enables not only increased and more reliable yields on
the main (rainfed) summer crop, but also a winter crop (usually wheat,
beans or peas) where previously the land was left fallow. In addition,
cropping patterns become more flexible. Under rainfed conditions in the
cerrados, farmers are heavily dependent on soybeans, because this crop is
best able to withstand the periodic dry spells that occur during the rainy
summer season. With irrigation, farmers have the choice also of planting
maize or upland rice in summer.
2.10         Areas under pressure irrigation tripled to 150,000 ha between
1970 and 1980, and increased to over 500,000 ha by the end of 1986, most of
it in the cerrados. In this period, large investments in hydropower
generation and in expansion of the transmission grid began to make electric
energy available to farmers at relatively low cost. The main immediate
constraint to further irrigation expansior is the l.imited distribution
network for supplying farmers with triple-phase electric power. Over the
longer term, as irrigation investments intensify, expansion will depend on
sound water management and its equitable distribution.
Irrigation Institutions
2.11      Until February 1986, the Ministry of the Interior (MINTER) was
the principal legal authority for all irrigation activities. Within
MINTER, responsibility for executing public irrigation in the Northeast lay
with two semi-autonomous federal entities, the Sao Francisco Development
Company (CODEVASF) and the National Department for Anti-Drought Works
(DNOCS). Also within MINTER was the National Department of Sanitation
Works (DNOS), which carried out major public drainage, flood control, dams
and irrigation works throughout the country. CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS
undertake the planning, engineering and suporvision of their respective
public works, while most of the construction nd maintenance is executed by
the private sector through competitive contraczing arrangements. DNOS also
leases specialized heavy equipment, such as draglines, to successful
bidders.
2.12      Government support of private on-farm irrigation, until February
1986, focused on two programs directed by the Ministry of Agriculture:
PROVARZEAS (Program for the Development of Flood Plains) created in 1981
and PROFIR (Program for Financing Irrigation Equipment) created ir, 1982.



-6-
PROVARZEAS, in cooperation with state technical assistance and rural
extension companies (EMATERs), provides technical assistance to farmers for
the design and implementation of drainage and/or surface irrigation works,
and assists in securing investment credit from banks. Though the focus of
PROVARZEAS is on farm-level development, some larger projects entail
watershed development, carried out under contract by federal, state or
private construction entities. This development includes flood protection,
river dredging, channel stabilization and other supply and drainage works.
PROFIR is a line of official rural credit to support farmer investment in
overhead irrigation systems, particularly in the cerrados.
2.13      From 1981 to 1986, PROVARZEAS coordinated private irrigation and
drainage investments on 570,000 ha, benefitting over 40,000 farmers, mostly
smallholders. Much of this development (652 of the area) was in the three
Southern states. From 1982 to 1986, PROFIR financed over 2,000 projects on
135,000 ha. Around 85Z of this area was in four states -- Sao Paulo, Minas
Gerais, Goias and Parana. With the declining availability of official
investment credit from 1984. farmers increasingly have used their own funds
for investment irn overhead irrigation, particularly in the State of Sao
Paulo.
2.14      In February 1986, the Government consolidated most federal
irrigation functions in a new "National Irrigation Program" office within
the Presidency, and placed it under the direction of a new Minister of
Irrigation Affairs (without portfolio). This step reflected the priority
attached by the Government to the rapid expansion of irrigation and the
difficulty of establishing a new ministry during a transitional political
period. The Minister is charged with crafting the policy and
organizational framework for accelerating private sector investment,
rationalizing and expanding public sector agency activities, particularly
in the Northeast, and securing support for an integrated national
irrigation development effort. The PROVARZEAS and PROFIR programs are the
only major federal irrigation programs that were not placed under the
Minister of Irrigation.
2.15      Also in February 1986, two regicnal coordinating programs were
created under the new Minister: the Northeast Irrigation Program (PROINE)
and the National Irrigation Program (PRONI). PROINE was established
initially for five years and PRONI for three. In May 1987, a Decree
extended the life of PRONI through December 1993. CODEVASF and DNOCS
activities are coordinated by PROINE. DNOS, which wc'rks closely with
PRONI, is in the unusual position of responding to two Ministers, because
some of its drainage and flood control programs are financed by the
Ministry of Housing, Urban Development and Environment.
Extension, Research and Training
2.16      Agricultural extension in Brazil is carried out by the state
EMATERs and by a large number of commercial farm management companies. The
EMATERs are linked to, and partially funded by, state secretariats of
agriculture and the Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company (EMBRATER), which In turn is linked to and partially funded by the
federal Ministry of Agriculture. Agricultural research at the federal
level is carried out by the Brazilian Agricultural Research Company
(EMBRAPA). EMBRAPA operates through sevetal regional, commodity-based and



-7-
state-level research centers. Several states have their own publicly-
funded research entities as well. T'ay are linked both to EMBRAPA and to
their Secretariats of Agriculture. In addition, a substantial amount of
agricultural research in Brazil is carried out by the private sector.
Agricultural training is carried out by the above federal and state
entities, by universities and by private institutions under contract. The
coverage and quality of services in the project areas are satisfactory.
They have been supported since the 19709 by three Bank-financed operations
(para. 2.18).
Production of Irris-tion Eauipment
2.17      There are over 20 manufacturers of overhead irrigation equipment
in Brazil. A full range of motors, pumps and pressure equipment is
produced, including central pivots, which are emerging as the dominant
technology for expanding irrigation in the highlands, especially the
cerrados. Overhead pressure irrigation systems, based on domestic
manufacture, evolved rapidly in the 1970s. By 1975, the first automatic
traveler equipment had been produced, and in 1978 the first center pivots
(capable of irrigating over 100 ha) were manufactured, based on a USA
model. In 1984, the industry sold 164 central pivots; in 1985, 224 units
were installed, and in 1986 the industry accepted orders for over 1000
units.  Not all these orders were filled however, because, with the
deteriorating economic climate, many farmers withdrew from their contracts.
In spite of this setback, the industry appears capable of responding
rapidly to an increase in orders. Therefore, provided the manufacturers
have confidence in farmers' willingness to invest, there should be little
delay in meeting substantial increases in farmer demand.
Bank Role in Agricultural Lending
2.18      To date, the Bank has made 47 loans totalling US$3,652 million
for agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These loans include: two
sector operations -- the Agricultural Credit and Export Loan for US$303
million, approved in October 1983, and the Credit and Marketing Reform Loan
for US$500 million, approved in June 1986; supplemental finaxicing of US$31
million under the Special Action Program; three loans for US$504 million
for agro-industries; three for US$112 million for livestock; one for US$18
million for grain storage; two for US$100 million for agricultural
research; two for US$255 for agricultural extension and training; one for
US$100 million for sand tenure improvement; one for US$49 million for
forestry development; and 32 totalling U$L,681 million for various
settlement, irrigation and rural development projects.
2.19      The above portfolio includes six loans in support of five
irrigation projects: the Sao Francisco I and II Projects (Loans 1153- and
1729-BR) for US$23 million and US$29 million, respectively, approved in
June 1975 and June 1979; a supplemental loan for the Sao Francisco II
Project (Ln 1729-1-BR) approved in November 1983; the Northeast Irrigation
Engineering Project (Loan 2680-BR) for US$48 million, approved in May 1986;
the Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Project (Loan 2719-BR) for US$57
million, approved in June 1986; and the Itaparica Resettlement and
Irrigation Project (Ln 2883-BR) for US$132 million, approved in November
1987. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Sao Francisco I Project



-8-
showed that despite implementation delays because of social tensions in the
project area and design changes, beneficiaries' net incomes increased
beyond appraisal estimates, and small farmers proved capable of moving from
subsistence to commercial agriculture.
III. THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin
3.01      The Bank's assistance strategy in Brazil is to support policies
and investments that will encourage economic growth and social development
in a context of macroeconomic stability. Our emphasis is on efficient
resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and the
appropriate targetting and delivery of support systems to the poor.
Because of the agricultural sector's impact on trade balances, rural
employment and incomes, and urban wage levels, a resumption of agricultural
growth is an integral component of this strategy. Bank lending is
encouraging agricultural growth through support for reforms in pricing,
trade and credit policies (Loans 2348-BR and 2727-BR), and for selected,
high priority subsectoral investments. By intensifying production on
existing lands, private irrigation, facilitated by the proposed loan, is
potentially one of the most cost-effective strategies for achieving
agricultural growth and increasing the production of food crops for
domestic consumption. Through the proposed project, the Bank would also
contribute to the development of policies, institutional arrangements and
environmental protection measures to support a more rational and sustained
expansion of irrigation.
3.02      The Bank began supporting irrigation planning and development
under PROINE (para 2.15) with the Northeast Irrigation Engineering Loan and
the Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project (para. 2.19). In
June 1986, the Government asked the Bank to assist in financing a time
slice of the PRONI Program. The main objectives of PRONI are twofold: (a)
to help increase the production of food grains, vegetables and fruits
through private irrigation development in the South, Southeast and Center-
West states of Brazil; and (b) to formulate policy and coordinate the
activities of federal, state and private agencies towards expanded private
irrigation, consistent with the sustained availability and equitable
distribution of riverine and ground water resources. A complementary
objective is to decentralize planning and support for private irrigation to
the state level. With a small professional staff, PRONI has almost no
operational responsibilities. It is managed by a Coordinator General,
responsible to the Minister. PRONI is expected to work closely with the
Ministry of Agriculture (PROVARZEAS and PROFIR), EMBRATER, the Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras (ELETROBRAS), DNOS, the Treasury and state
implementing agencies (EMATERs and state power companies).
3.03      The first Bank preparation mission visited Brazil in November
1986. The first phase of the appraisal took place in April 1987. PRONI
submitted a revised project proposal to the Bank in August 1987, and the
appraisal was completed in October. Negotiations took place in Washington
in May 1988. The Brazilian delegation was led by Mr. Daniel de Oliveira of
the Ministry of Finance, Secretariat for International Affairs.



-9-
Brief Description                 I
3.04      The project would finance a five-year time slice of the PRONI
program. The project area would include all 10 states in the Center West,
Southeast and Southern Regions of the country and the Federal District.
The project would comprise three components: (a) electrification --
construction of electricity distribution lines along waterways; (b)
hydraulic works -- public drainage, diversion and storage of water in flood
plains; and (c) institutional development, including the formulation of
policies for rational, long-term management of water resources for
irrigation, and environmental aspects of irrigation. Responsibility for
overall coordination of the project would rest with PRONI. At the state
level, the project would be implemented by state agencies, including state
electric companies and EMATERs, and by federal agencies, including DNOS.
On-farm development would be carried out by farmers (para. 3.16). The
criteria for the preliminary selection of areas for public infrastructure
investments are embodied in PRONI's "Areas of Concentration" planning
system. The criteria include suitable soils and climate for the production
of crops, the availability of adequate riverine water and energy at
reasonable cost, adequate roads, crop storage facilities and other
infrastructure, and the existence of a critical mass of skilled farmers,
whose productivity could be increased substantially through irrigation.
The criteria take account also of environmental 'exclusion zones', which
protect national forest reserves and Amerindian lands.
Detailed Features
3.05      Electrification.  The project would provide for construction by
state electricity companies (SECs) of mainly three-phase 138 and 69 kV
subtransmission and 34.5 and 13.8 kV distribution lines and substations
along rivers in priority irrigation locations (78Z of baseline project
costs). These locations are being identified by PRONI and the state
authorities through the 'Areas of Concentration" planning system (para.
3.04). It is expected that over the course of the project, some 22,000 km
of power lines would be constructed. In addition to serving needs for
irrigation, the lines would provide a primary feeder source for expanded
community electrification Distribution lines to be financed by the
project between 1988 and 1990 would constitute less than 42 of the cost of
all transmission and distribution investments planned for the power sector
for those years in the project area.  The project woulu have negligible
impact on generation and transmission capacity because most power allocated
to irrigation is consumed during 'off peak" hours.
3.06      The SECs and state coordinating entities (ECEs) would cooperate
in the planning of the distribution networks in the priority locations to
coordinate objectives and avoid duplication of expenditures. The plans,
which would be presented in each state's antual operating plan (para.
3.36), would then be reviewed by ELETROBRAS to ensure that they were
consistent with ELETROBRAS' technical and environmental guidelines.
Construction of the power lines would be executed by the SECs. Their staff
would carry out the necessary engineering and supervision. For the most
part, larger works would be constructed under local contracts, and smaller
works by the utilities' own staff, as is normal utility practice.
Equipment and materials would be furnished to the installation contractors
by the SECs. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:



-10-
(a) all plans for power installations to be financed under the project
would be reviewed by ELETROBRAS on at least an annual basis to ensure
compliance with ELETROBRAS' technical guidelines and with environmental
guidelines established for the power sector, including the Environmental
Protection Master Plan (previously agreed with the Bank under the First
Power Sector Loan -- Loan 2720-BR, approved in June 1986); (b) ELETROBRAS,
together with PRONI, would supervise the construction of the installations,
and would determine measures to facilitate the carrying out of the
component and the levels of investments to be made by each SEC under the
project; and (c) such installations would be operated and maintained by the
SECs in accordance with sound engineering, environmental and public utility
practices.
3.07      A Power Sector Rehabilitation Plan (PSRP), supported under Loan
2720-BR, addre3ses the financial rehabilitation of the power sector.
Consistent with the objectives of that loan, the Government provided
assurances at negotiations that proceeds from the loan transferred by PRONI
to the SECs would be transferred as loans from the Government under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.08      Hydraulic Infrastructure.  The project would provide also for
publicly-funded drainage of flood plains, construction and rehabilitation
of small dams, stream diversions and other complementary works to control
the supply and disposition of surface water (17Z of baseline costs). These
works, mostly in the South, would be planned and managed by DNOS or by
state authorities acceptable to the Bank to facilitate private irrigation
development. Their location would be selected by PRONI, the state
authorities and DNOS under the same "Areas of Concentration" system (para.
3.04) employed for the electrification component. At negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that these works would be constructed,
operated and maintained in accordance with sound engineering and
environmental practices.
3.09      Institutional Development.  This component (5Z of baseline costs)
would be coordinated by PRONI's Project Management Unit (para. 3.29). It
would be implemented mainly by other government agencies, universities and
research centers, and private consulting and other professional service
firms. It would finance three complementary sets of activities. The first
set would support project startup and management assistance, including
staff training, for the 11 State Coordinating Entities (ECEs) and other
cooperating state and federal agencies. The second would furnish longer-
term organizational development, planning systems design and operating
procedures to build the ECEs into effective state-level irrigation
organizations. The third set would finance programs to build public
support for irrigation, educate farmers about the production economics of
irrigation, and sponsor long-term planning and research on production,
resource conservation, and environmental, organizational and legal issues.
These mutually reinforcing activities would foster the creation of a sound
long-term policy and institutional framework for the continued expansion of
private irrigation.
3.10      In addition to providing startup and management support,
consultants engaged under the first set of activities would help refine
PRONI's Annual Operating Plan (POA) system, adapting it to the needs of t1e
different ECEs, and strengthening its monitoring capabilities. This



-11-
assistance would complement directly the longer-term organizational
development and training programs needed to build the ECEs into truly
decentralized planning and management agencies, which is a principal
project objective. Terms of reference for startup and management
assistance activities, including the development of a Manual of Operations
for the ECEs and cooperating agencies, have been approved by the Bank. The
contracting of consultants for this work would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. Draft terms of reference for consultants to help with
longer-term organizational development have also been approved. PRONI
expects to initiate this work by September 1988.
3.11      The third set of activities would set the stage for continued
investment in private irrigation by building public understanding of the
need for expanding irrigated agriculture (a crucial task in a now largely
urban country), increasing farmer knowledge about irrigation investment and
production planning, supporting research into irrigation-related topics and
strengthening PRONI's Area of Concentration planning system. In addition
to meeting production-related needs, research activities would include the
long-term organizational and legal requirements for expanding irrigation,
its social and distributional effects, cost recovery, the possible roles of
water user associations, modernization of water laws, water resource
management, environmental protection needs (paras. 3.12-3.15) and on-going
project impact evaluation studies (Annex I). At negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that PRONI would: (a) by September 30, 1988,
furnish to the Bank for its comments draft terms of reference for the
design of a system to evaluate the socio-economic impact of irrigation
activities; (b) by December 31, 1988, furnish to the Bank final terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; (c) by April 30, 1989, hire consultants
to design the system; (d) by October 31, 1989, furnish to the Bank a final
design, which would be acceptable to the Bank; and (e) implement the system
promptly thereafter.
3.12      The Environment.  The PRONI program will intensify soil and water
use in the project area. Increased demand for surface water could lead
eventually to competition for supplies and to aquifer management problems.
Drainage-related problems could arise in the flood plain areas. Greenbelt
irrigation could lead to competition with residential and industrial water
users. Increased cropping intensities could lead to fertilizer and
pesticide runoff or water table problems, and Amerindian areas and wildlife
habitats, including fish and bird migration patterns, could be affected,
particularly in the fLood plains. On the other hand, the PRONI program and
the project would help lessen pressures for continued expansion of
agriculture into frontier, virgin lands, because most of the irrigation
investments would be on areas already under rainfed production. Further,
the expansion of irrigation would be gradual and dispersed over the project
area, permitting water management and environmental protection regulations
to be developed and tested in response to practical needs.
3.13      The development of environmental protection policies and
regulations is the responsibility of the federal Environmental Secretariat
(SEMA), in the Ministry of Housing, Urban Development and Environment
(MHU). Decree No. 91,305 of June 3, 1985 requires the preparation of
environmental impact assessments and the issuance of licences for any
development likely to affect the environment. As far as the project is
concerned, licences, including environmental impact assessments, are



-12-
required by Brazilian law for hydraulic and electrification works in the
areas of concentration (para. 3.04). Responsibility for implementing these
regulations is vested in state environmental agencies. While this
framework is satisfactory, oversight and enforcement capabilities are often
weak. Some state agencies lack adequate personnel and experience to
evaluate and monitor the environmental effects of the PRONI program.
3.14      Durir.g the project, PRONI, in cooperation with SEMA and the state
agencies, would address longer-term, irrigation-related environmental
issues, including water resource management and conservation, training of
farmers and extension agents, development of procedures for monitoring and
evaluating the environmental effects of irrigation, modernization of water
laws, and strengthening of state environmental institutions, if necessary.
Recently, PRONI expanded its Natural Resources Department to an Environment
and Natural Resources Department. In addition, PRONI hired consultants
from the US Bureau of Reclamation, under terms of reference agreed upon
with the Bank, to: (a) review the adequacy of existing federal and state
environmental protection policies and regulatory mechanisms in the PRONI
area; (b) review PRONI's 1988 POA to identify possible environmental
consequences and, if necessary, to recommend actions for their mitigation;
and (c) prepare terms of reference for the development of environmental
guidelines, monitoring and effective enforcement measures for future
irrigation investment. The Bureau's preliminary report, made available to
the Bank in April 1988, confirms that no important environmental
consequences are expected with regard to the 1988 POA.
3.15      Receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory 1988 POA would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.34). At negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that: (a) PRONI, in cooperation with SEMA
(MHU), would prepare environmental guidelines and monitoring and effective
enforcement measures for future irrigation development (para. 3.14); (b) by
September 30, 1989, the recommended guidelines, monitoring and enforcement
measures would be submit_ed to the National Environmental Council (CONAMA)
for its consideration; and (c) prior to the guidelines going into effect,
PRONI would send to the Bank for its review and approval any
electrification, drainage or water control projects financed under the
loan, which may have adverse effects on indigenous populations or
wildlands, or which may involve involuntary resettlement of populations or
subst..atial clearing of primary forest or vegetation. Each state's
environmental protection agency would be represented on that state's
Irrigation Council (para. 3.30). Funds would be available under the
Institutional Development component of the loan to strengthen the
capabilities of PRONI, SEMA and the state environmental agencies with
respect to the environmental aspects of irrigation if such strengthening is
indicated by the environmental study.
Complementary Activities
3.16      Credit for On-Farm Development.  The infrastructure investments
to be financed under the project would support on-farm development by
around 50,000 farmers. Credit for on-farm investments would not be
financed under the project, but would be available to farmers through the
banking system. The First Agricultural Credit Project, which includes a
proposed Bank loan of US$300 million, would make available medium- and
long-term credit on comercial terms to help finance on-farm investments,



-13-
including irrigation (para. 2 06). In addition, there are existing
official credit lines, including the PROVARZEAS and PROFIR lines (para.
2.12). The main source of financing for the PROVARZEAS line is the Federal
Government, and the main source for the PROFIR line is a Japanese OECF loan
to the Government of Y12 billion (US$95 million). This latter line is
confined to four cerrado states (Minas Gerais, Goias, Mato Grosso and Mato
Grosso do Sul) and the Federal District.
3.17      Typical irrigation technologies, crop rotations and farm sizes
are indicated by nine representative farm models (para. 3.41). These
models embody gravity and low-lift irrigation for mainly rice production,
and overhead pressure irrigation, both in the cerrados for mainly soybean
and maize production, and in "greenbelt' areas near major cities for
vegetable and fruit production. Principal on-farm investments would
include drainage and land levelling in the flood plains, overhead
irrigation equipment and electricity connections in upland areas
(connections include transformers, switches, metering equipment and 100-200
hp three-phase motors), and complementary crop cultivation and harvesting
equipment.
3.18      Extension and Training Services.  These services would support
directly, but would not be financed by the project. Extension services for
smaller irrigati)n farmers would be provided mainly by the state EMATERs.
These services function reasonably well, supported by EMBRATER and the
PROVARZEAS progrsm. Larger farmers would receive advice mainly from
private extension companies and irrigation equipment suppliers. Training
of farmers and extension staff (including special programs for private
fi:ms) would be carried out by the EMATERs, as well as by the State
Secretariats of Agriculture and universities. These extension and training
activities would be supported, in part, by the Second Agricultural
Extension Project (Ln 2679-BR). Support would be given also by EMBRAPA,
through its technology transfer programs for extension staff and farmers.
At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would ensure
the provision and coordination of research, extension and training
activities to support the project.
Proiect Costs and Financing
3.19      Costs.  The total cost of the project is estimated at US$435
million equivalent, including physical and price contingencies and US$46
million in local taxes (see Loan and Project Summary). The direct and
indirect foreign exchange component is estimated at US$129 million, or 30Z
of total costs. Physical contingencies of lOZ were added to all baseline
costs.  Price contingencies were added based on estimates of US dollar
inflation: 3Z per year for 1988-90 and 4Z per year thereafter. It was
assumed that periodic currency adjustments, estimated on a purchasing power
parity basis, would compensate for differences between US dollar and local
rates of inflation.
3.20      Financing.  The proposed Bank loan of US$195 million would
finance 50Z of total project costs, net of taxes, or 45Z of total project
costs including taxes. It would finance 10O of the direct and indirect
foreign exchange costs and 22Z of local costs. The loan would be to the
Federative Republic of Brazil, which would carry the foreign exchange risk.
It would be repayable over 15 years, including five years of grace, and



-14-
would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. Eligible
expenditures incurred after October 31, 1987 to the date of loan signing
would be eligible for retroactive financing up to a maximum of US$10
million equivalent. To ensure that sufficient funds would be available to
support the project, the Government provided assurances at negotiations
that: (a) the Treasury would make available to PRONI all funds for
expenditures to be financed by the Government or from the loan, in
accordance with the timetable established in an annual plan (Plano de
Aplicacao) agreed between the Office of the Minister of Irrigation and the
Treasury; (b) such funds would be made available to PRONI no later than 15
days from the beginning of each of the time periods specified in the Plano
de Aplicacao; and (c) PRONI would make available to each project executing
entity, at least quarterly, all such funds in accordance with the amounts
and timetable in the relevant state POA (para 3.32). It would be a
condition of loan effectiveness that the Government has budgeted adequate
funds from its 1988 budget to implement the 1988 Consolidated POA (para.
3.33), and that these funds have been made available by PRONI to the
executing entities in accordance with such Consolidated POA.
Procurement
3.21      Equipment and materials for the electrification component,
including standardized poles, insulators, conductors, transformers and
switches, would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
according to Bank guidelines. To encourage more price competitive bids,
the participating SECs, unless specifically exempted by the Bank, would
enter into operating agreements with PRONI for the purpose of grouping
their procurement of equipment and materials. To attract international
bidders, each tender document under ICB would be for contracts expected to
cost not less than TtS$500,000. Bid packages for contracts expected to cost
less than US$500,000 would be financed with counterpart funds. Brazilian
manufacturers whose ICB bids include components manufactured in Brazil
equal to at least 502 of the value of their bids would be given a margin of
preference of 15Z or the applicable import duties, whichever is lower.
Past experience suggests that about 701 of the value of the contracts
placed through ICB would be awarded to Brazilian suppliers. To facilitate
an early start on the Electrification component, and recognizing that ICB
procurement is likely to take more than 12 months, the SECs would be
permitted through December 1989 to use their existing stocks of materials
and equipment and to replace such stocks under ICB procurement procedures.
3.22      Civil works for constructing the power subtransmission and
distribution lines, and substations, would be procured by each SEC and
financed by local counterpart funds. Civil works for constructing
publicly-funded hydraulic infrastructure (drainage and water control
projects) to be partially financed by the Bank loan, would be procured by
DNOS or participating state governments. This infrastructure work would be
carried out by private contractors using either their own equipment, or
equipment leased from DNOS. Because of their diverse geographic locations
and relatively small size (individual contracts are not expected to cost
more than US$ 1 million equivalent), it is doubtful that the construction
of hydraulic infrastructure would attract foreign bids. The construction
of those works expected to cost US$100,000 or more would be procured under
LCB procedures which have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.



-15-
Foreign firms would be eligible to bid for the LCB construction contracts.
Contracts expected to cost less than US$100,000 would be carried out by
local contractors after soliciting and evaluating at least three bids
(shopping) from contractors eligible under the Bank's procurement
guidelines. Equipment required to carry out the hydraulic infrastructure
component would not be financed by the project, but would be made available
by DNOS and the participating states. Consultant services for the
Institutional Development component, including research, would be procured
according to Bank guidelines.
3.23      The following bid packages would be sent to the Bank for prior
review and authorization: (a) all ICB; and (b) the first 10 LCB packages
for the construction of hydraulic works, irrespective of cost.  Following
the first 10 LCB packages, LCB contracts would be reviewed by the Bank ex
post on a sample basis during project supervision. The Government provided
assurances at negotiations that these procurement arrangements would be
followed. It is expected that the prior review requirements would cover
around 702 of the loan. Procurement arrangements are summarized in the
following table.
Procurement Method
(USS MIllIon)
Force                     Total
Project Componont          ICs   LCB    Acot.   Other   N.A.        Cost
-------- (US million) --------
Electrification
- Equip. and Materialo   18    41        41                       220
(188)  (-)     H-)                       (138)
- Civil Works                    84       20                       84
()       -)                       ()
- Admn.  Engineering                    84                        84
()                       ()
Hydraulle Infrastructure
- Clvil Works                    56               18                74
(80)            (10)              (40)
Institutional Development                                    28       28
(17)    (17)
TOTAL                 18    161      96       18      23       486
(188)   (80)    (-)    (10)    (17)     (196)
Note: Values In parentheses are the estimated respective amounts to be financed by the Bank.
Disbursements
3.24   The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against:
(a) for the Electrification component, 100Z of CIF costs of
imported items and 100? of ex-factory costs for locally
manufactured items (amounting to about 40? of total
expenditures on this component);



-16-
(b) for the Hydraulic Works component, 1002 of total
expenditures made through March 31, 1990 and thereafter 312
of total expenditures (amounting to about 552 of total
expenditures on this component); and
tc) for the Institutional Development component, 100Z of total
expenditures made through March 31, 1990 and thereafter
1OOZ of foreign expenditures and 45X of local expenditures
(amounting to about 752 of total expenditures on this
component).
3.25      Disbursements for contracts exceeding US$500,000 equivalent would
be made against standard documentation. Disbursements for other
expenditures would be made againstfStatements of Expenditure (SOEs)
prepared by the pertinent executing agencies and certified by PRONI.
Supporting documentation for SOEs would not be submitted to the Bank, but
would be retained by PRONI or the ECEs and made aailable to Bank staff
during supervision.
3.26      The proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed over a
period of up to five and a half years. While Bank disbursement profiles
show an average of seven and eight years, respectively, for agricultural
credit loans in Latin America and loans to Brazil for agriculture, this
shorter period is considered reasonable. It is based on the increased
priority being given by the Government to irrigation development through
PRONI, and on PRONI's plans to implement most project activities over the
next three to four years. In addition, most of the Bank's experience with
agricultural loans to Brazil has been with multi-sectoral projects in the
less developed Northeast Region. Because the present loan would support
private sector irrigation developmjnt in the Center, Southeast and Southern
Regions, expenditures and disbursements are expected to proceed more
quickly. Projected overall disbursements are shown in the Loan and Project
Summary, and in Annex IV. The Closing Date of the loan would be December
31, 1993.
Special Account
3.27      To facilitate Bank disbursements, a Special Account in US dollars
would be established in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of up to
US$15 million. This deposit is based on estimates of the project's
financing needs and projected Bank disbursements in 1988 and 1989.
Accounts and Audit
3.28      Each participating agency, at the federal and state levels, would
establish and maintain separate accounts for project expenditures.
Assurances were provided by the Government at negotiations that:
(a) these accounts, as well as the Special Account (para. 3.27), would be
established, maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (b) terms of reference for the auditors would
include a requirement that the auditors provide a separate opinion as to
whether the SOEs, and the procedures and internal controls involved in



-17-
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related requests for
withdrawals from the loan; and (c) copies of the audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Proiect Implementation
3.29      Organization and Management.  Project management guidance would
be provided by PRONI's Consultative Council, whose membership would include
representatives of the Office of the Minister of Irrigation, the Ministry
of Finance, the Ministry of Mines and Energy, the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Ministry of Housing, Urban Development and Environment, the Ministry of
Planning, and three representatives of the participating states. The
Council would provide a forum for members to review and comment on drafts
of the Consolidated POAs, and to discuss irrigation issues relating to the
PRONI program. Responsibility for planning, coordinating and monitoring
the implementation o)f project activities would rest with PRONI's Project
Management Unit (Ph;,). The PMU would work with participating federal
agencies and with the ECEs (para. 3.09), each of which would be headed by a
State Coordinator. Support for decentralized management and decision
making. through the ECEs, is a fundamental project objective. Neither
PRONI nor the ECEs would have responsibility for the actual implementation
of project investments. The SECs would manage electrification, and DNOS or
participating state governments would plan and supervise water control,
supply and drainage investments. The Institutional Development component
would be carried out by PRONI and the ECEs, mainly through other government
agencies, universities and research centers, and private consultants. Each
State Coordinator, on behalf of the respective ECE, would confirm to PRONI
that project activities and expenditures at the state level, including
expenditures incurred by DNOS and the SECs, were consistent with the
relevant state POA, and that the activities were being properly executed.
At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would establish
and maintain: (a) the PRONI Constultative Council with the membership
defined above; and (b) the PMU with a Project Manager, key staff,
operational structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank.
Establishment of the Consultative Council with the membership defined above
would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.30      ECEs have been created by each of the 10 states and the Federal
District. Most of the ECEs are functioning within state Secretariats of
Agriculture. Each state also would establish an Irrigation Council, whose
core membership would normally include responsible state government
secretaries, regional representatives of involved federal agencies, a
representative of state banking executives, a representative of a state
farmers' organization concerned with irrigation, the state environmental
protection agency, and the State Coordinator (as Executive Secretary).
Provisions would exist to expand Council membership if necessary.
Responsibilities of the councils would include approval of the state POAs
(para. 3.32) and oversight of the ECEs. The establishment of the ECEs and
the State Irrigation Councils, and their respective functions and
responsibilities, would be defined in the convenios to be signed between
the Minister of Irrigation and each participating state (para. .35).
3.31      The ECEs would replicate, at the local level, many of PRONI's
coordination and planning functions. Initially, PRONI, assisted by
consultants, would help the ECEs with project startup activities, including



-18-
preparation of the 1989 POA. As the ECEs improved their operating
capabilities, PRONI would turn its attention more to longer-term planning
assistance and to policy formulation, including issues of irrigation
expansion and water resources management. Achieving the right balance
amongst these evolving priorities would be addressed in part by the
Institutional Development component. Close Government and Bank supervision
would also be needed.
3.32      Annual Operating Plans (POAs).  The POAs would serve as the
principal vehicle for project planning and implementation, and for
supervision by the Bank. Each state would prepare its POAs under the
direction of its ECE. Each POA would define clearly, For each project
component and participating agency, as appropriate, the proposed physical
and expenditure targets for the coming year. These targets would be
presented by quarter in order to facilitate the monitoring of
implementation. The specific locations proposed for electrification and
other infrastructure investments would be defined, together with written
justifications for the proposals in terms of PRONI's "Areas of
Concentration" criteria (pars. 3.04). The proposals also would include
environmental impact statements whenever required under Decree No. 91,305
of June 3, 1985 (para. 3.13). For on-farm development, the number of ha
expected to be served with the different types of irrigation and drainage
would be specified, as would the expected total costs of the investments.
Proposals for extension, training and research needs would be presented.
Each POA would specify the proposed sources of fu,"Q foi the respective
expenditures.
3.33      Follow.ag an iterative process between PRONI and the various
federal and state agencies involved, the draft state POAs would be agreed
upon between PRONI and the ECEs. PRONI would then consolidate the state
POAs into an overall Consolidated POA, consistent with available resources
and the implementation capabilities of the cooperating agencies. PRONI has
begun preparation of guidelines for the standardized preparation of state
POAs. The guidelines would be refined in the first year of project
implementation, with the help of consultants (para. 3.10).
3.34      At negotiations, the Government provided assurances th;it: (a)
drafts of each state POA would be submitted by each ECE to PRONI; (b) PRONI
would consolidate the state POAs into a draft Consolidated POA; (c) the
draft Consolidated POA would be submitted by PRONI te the members of the
Consultative Council for their review; (d) by September 30, the draft
Consolidated POA would be submitted to the Bank for its review and comment;
(e) by November 30, the revised state POAs would be submitted to the
respective participating states for their endorsement; and (f) by December
15, the Consolidated POA would be approved by the Office of the Minister of
Irrigation. As noted in para. 3.15, receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory
Consolidated POA for 1988 would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.35      Legal Agreements.  To ensure effective cooperation among the
various entities involved in project implementation, two different types of
agreements would be entered into. These include: (a) federal coordinating
arraugements between the Office of the Minister of Irrigation and: (i)
ELETROBRAS for the Electrification component; and (ii) DNOS for the
Hydraulic Works component; and (b) convenios between the Office of the
Minister of Irrigation and each respective state gover.ament, including
state entities participating in the project.



-19-
3.36      Each of these coordinating agreements and convenios would specify
each party's respective project responsibilities including those related to
provision of funds, procurement, loan accounting and reporting. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would enter into
the coordinating arrangements and convenios specified in para. 3.35, all of
which would be satisfactory to the Bank. Receipt by the Bank of the
federal coordinating agreements and of at least seven state convenios would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. A condition of loan disbursement for
each state would be that the Bank had received a copy of the respective
state convenio.
3.37      Monitoring and Reporting.  Physical and financial monitoring of
project progress would be, in the first instance, the responsibility of the
ECEs. These entities would regularly collect and analyze data on key
project indicators to assess progress, exercise control and identify
possible problems. The State Coordinators would prepare and submit
quarterly progress reports to PRONI, including up-to-date physical and
expenditure data for each project component, and for on-farm development,
extension and training, comparing these data with the quarterly targets in
the state POA, and drawing to PRONI's attention the successes and problems
of implementation during the reporting period. Executing entities
contracted directly by PRONI, such as EMBRAPA, would also submit quarterly
progress reports to PRONI.
3.38      Based on the above reports, PRONI would prepare every six months,
throughout the project implementation period, a consolidated progress
report, which would be copied to the Bank. PRONI's reports would quantify
progress according to key indicators and compare this information with
targets in the consolidated POA. They also would be descriptive, assessing
the reasons for progress, or lack of progress, of each component, and
describing PRONI's plans to resolve any implementation problems. PRONI
would hire consultants under the Institutional Development component to
help define the objectives and prepare the design, performance indicators
and operating procedures for the monitoring and impact evaluation functions
(paras. 3.10, 3.11 and 3.15). At negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that: (a) the ECEs and the executing entities contracted
directly by PRONI would submit every quarter a progress report to PRONI,
and (b) PRONI would submit every six months a consolidated project progress
report to tue Bank.
Project Benefits and Justification
3.39      Production and Marketing.   At full development, the annual
production of main commodities to be supported by the project, and their
increments compared to 1984-1986 national production, would be as follows:
Increment
Incrent        as X of 1984-88
Crop         (1000 tons)    National Production
Soybeans       - 170               -1
Wheat           610                18
Maize           240                 1
Rice            1880               18
Beans           890                28
Vegetables      428               n.a.



-20-
3.40     The incremental output is expected to be marketed internally.
Brazil has imported substantial quantities of rice, maize and wheat in the
past few years (para. 2.01). Soybean production should decrease marginally
on farms benefitting from the project, as farmers in the highlands replace
rainfed soybeans with maize under irrigation. The supply of beans, a
dietary staple, would be reinforced, especially in the winter months when
supplies and prices have tended to be erratic. The supply of inputs in the
project area is carried out by the private sector. Sales outlets are
numerous, accessible and competitive. Farmer cooperatives are well
represented, especially in the Southern Region. There is a broad network
of infrastructure, including roads, private and public grain purchasing
centers, and grair. storage and drying facilities. Therefore, the
availability of appropriate infrastructure is not expected to be a
constraint over the implementation period of the project.
3.41     Financial Benefits.  Benefits expected to accrue to farmers from
the project were analyzed on the basis of nine representative farm models.
The analysis relates only to the irrigated areas of the farms, comparing
the 'with' and 'without' project situations.   The following table
summarizes for each model; farm size, area of new irrigation, principal
crops to be grown under irrigation, and estimates of beneiits accruing to
the on-farm investments, including financial rates of return (FRR) over 12
years.
Subborrowera' Benefits
Not Income at Full Development p/
Not
No.     Farm    Irrigated                     Income    Not Incom    Financial
of      al*s      Are          Maln           Before      at Full     Rat. of
Mod l    Farms     he       he           Crops        Development  Development   Return X
________________-usl------------
la     22,S0W    15-20       2    Rice/Beans               0         1190         47
lb      6,250     16-20      2         *                   0         1115         44
lc      15,00    l5-20       2         a                   0          610         23
2a      2,240   100-400     20    RIcO/Beans               0       10,910         82
2b      1,880   100-400     2J         *                   0        9,W00         29
2e       S60   100-400      20         *                            5,790         19
8         560      400    159    R:ce/Besna              6120      76,550         24
4                   800    2a0    Soybeans/Maliz/Wheat  26,850    119,0 W          25
S                   10       5    Vegetables/Fruit        s0       23,890         44
TOTAL   55,065
pJ Not Income Is total revenue from irrigated land les operating costs (exclusive of the value of
family labor and debt servicirg). Full development Is Years 8-6 of a farm development plan.
These results indicate that under current or improved agricultural pricing
policies, farmers should have adequate incentives to undertake the proposed
types of investments, with financing from banks and/or their own resources.
3.42     Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact.  Cost recovery for project
expenditures would be effected: (a) directly in the case of power
distribution lines through electricity tariffs; and (b) indirectly for



-21-
hydrological works and institutional development through taxation of around
16% of the value of gross incremental production resulting from the
project. This taxation is expected to be about US$115 million equivalent
per year at full development. It compares to an investment cost of about
US$390 million to be borne by the federal and state governments over the
five-year project execution period.
3.43     Economic Benefits.  Estimated benefits from the project are based
on the farm models (para. 3.41), which represent development plans expected
to be adopted by over 50,000 farmers. The value of annual incremental
production at full development should be around US$650 million equivalent
for grains and US$250 million for vegetables and fruit. Direct employment
for some 20,000 workers would be generated and indirect employment in
agricultural processing and service industries for about twice that number.
A recent International Labor Organization study, contracted by PRONI,
indicates that there should be no shortages of labor in the project areas.
The economic rate of return to the project is estimated at 21Z. Where
appropriate, financial prices were converted to economic prices, and
adjustments were made to eliminate the effects -f taxes and duties. A
switching value analysis shows that benefits coulc fall by 29% or costs
could rise by 40X before the economic rate of rete n declined to the
opportunity cost of capital, 11Z (Annex 2).
3.44     Project Risks.  The main risk for project implementation concerns
institutional coordination. An important objective of the project would be
to help decentralize planning and execution of private irrigation
development to the state and local levels. It is PRONI's responsibility to
develop the procedures and coordination necessary for this task. The risk
lies in whether PRONI, a new federal program, would be able to coordinate
effectively the several federal, state and private agencies expected to be
involved.  This constr.int has been addressed explicitly in the design of
the project. The Institutional Development component includes substantial
management assistance to help PRONI and the ECEs define their planning and
operating procedures and to help PRONI develop a longer-term policy focus
towards water resource management and environmental protection measures.
IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      Assurances were provided by the Government at negotiations that:
(a)  All plans for power installations financed under the project
would be reviewed by ELETROBRAS on at least an annual basis
to ensure compliance with ELETROBRAS' technical and
environmental guidelines, including the Environmental
Protection Master Plan; ELETROBRAS, together with PRONI,
would supervise the construction of the installations, and
would determine measures to facilitate the carrying out of
the component and levels of investments to be made by each
SEC under the project; and such installations would be
operated and maintained in accordance with sound
engineering, environmental and public utility practices
(para. 3.06);



-22-
(b)  Proceeds of the loan transferred by PRONI to the SECs would
be transferred as loans from the Government under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.07).
(c) Hydraulic works financed under the project would be
constructed, operated and maintained in accordance with
sound engineering ana environmental practices (para. 3.08);
(d) PRONI would, by September 30, 1988, furnish to the Bank for
its comments draft terms of reference for the design of a
system to evaluate the socio-economic impact of irrigation
activities; by December 31, 1988, furnish to the Bank final
terms of reference satis.actory to the Bank; by April 30,
1989, hire consultants to design the system; by October 31,
1989, furnish to the Bank a final design, which would be
acceptable to the Bank; and implement the system promptly
thereafter (para. 3.11);
(g) PRONI, in cooperation with SEMA (MHU), would prepare
environmental guidelines and monitoring and effective
enforcement measures for future irrigation development; by
September 30, 1989, the recommended guidelines, monitoring
and enforcement measures would be submitted to CONAMA for
its consideration; and prior to the guidelines going into
effect, PRONI would send to the Bank for its review and
approval any electrification, drainage or water control
projects financed under the loan, which may have adverse
effects on indigenous populations or wildlands, or which may
involve involuntary resettlement of populations or
substantial clearing of primary forest or vegetation (para.
3.15);
(f) It would ensure the provision and coordination of research,
extension and training activities to support the project
(para. 3.18);
(g) The Treasury would make available to PRONI all funds for
expenditures to be financed by the Government or from the
loan, in accordance with the Plano de Aplicacao; and such
funds would be made available to PRONI no later than 15 days
from the beginning of each time period specified in the
Plano de Aplicacao (para. 3.20);
(h) At least quarterly, PRONI would make available to each
project executing entity all federal funds in accordance
with the amounts and timetable in the relevant state POA
(para. 3.20);
(i) The procurement arrangements in paras. 3.21 to 3.23 would be
followed;
(j)  Project accounts and the Special Account  would be
established, maintained and audited annually in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors exceptable to the Bank; terms of
reference for the auditors would include a requirement that



-23-
the auditors provide a separate opinion as to whether the
SOEs, and the procedure and internal controls involved =n
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
requests for withdrawals under the loan; and copies of the
audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.28);
(k) A PRONI Consultative Council would be established and
maintained, with the membership defined in para. 3.29;
(1) A Project Management Unit, with Project Manager, key staff
and operational structure and functions satisfactory to the
Bank, would be established and maintained within PRONI
(para. 3.29);
(m) Drafts of each state PCA would be submitted by each ECE to
PRONI; PRONI would consolidate the state POAs into a draft
Consolidated POA; the draft Consolidated POA would be
submitted by PRONI to the members of the Consultative
Council for their review; by September 30, the draft
Consolidated POA would be submitted to the Bank for its
review and comment; by November 30, the revised state POAs
would be submitted to the respective participating states
for their endorsement; and by December 15, the Consolidated
POA would be approved by the Office of the Minister of
Irrigation (para. 3.34);
(n) It would enter into federal coordinating arrangements and
state convenios, all of which would be satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.36); and
so) Each ECE and the executing entities contracted directly by
PRONI would submit every quarter a progress report to PRONI;
and PRONI would submit every six months a consolidated
project progress report to the Bank (para. 3.38).
4.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a) The contracting by PRONI of consultants for project startup
and management activities (para. 3.10);
(b) Receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory Consolidated POA for
1988 (para. 3.15);
(c) That the Government has budgeted adequate funds from its
1988 budget to implement the 1988 Consolidated POA, and that
these funds have been made available by PRONI to the
executing entities in accordance with such Consolidated POA
(para. 3.20);
(d) Establishment of PRONI's Consultative Council, with the
membership defined in para. 3.29; and



-24-
(e) Receipt by the Bank of the federal coordinating arrangements
specified in para. 3.35, and at least seven state convenios
(para. 3.36).
4.03      A condition of loan disbursement would be that for expenditures
for electrification, hydraulic infrastructure and institutional development
in each state, the Bank has received a state convenio (para. 3.36).



-25-
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
PRONI: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT1
1.       The PRONI program has two objectives:  (a) the immediate expansion
of irrigation outside the Northeast and (b) building an institutional and
policy framework for the longer-term development of irrigated agriculture.
The Government has opted to pursue these objectives by emphasizing private
investment and without establishing a large new bureaucracy. Because the
proposed project would affect the setting for future irrigation
development, there are strong and deliberate linkages between project
execution plans and PRONI's longer-term Institutional Development goals.
2.       The project is designed to reinforce Government policy.  First, it
emphasizes decentralized planning and operations. All private and public
investment would be executed by agencies other than PRONI, Including state
electric companies, and DNOS. Many have prior experience with
internationally-funded projects.  Similarly, PRONI woulu -work from the
beginning to build State Coordinating Entities (ECEs) able to assume
responsibility for planning and management at the local level. As the
project goes forward, these ECEs increasingly should take the lead in the
planning and supervision of PRONI-sponsored irrigation development.
3.       A Project Management Unit (PHU) has been established in PRONI to
help plan and coordinate the implementation of project activities. It
would assist the ECEs to use PRONI's Annual Operating Plan (POA) process to
identify and evaluate investment opportunities, ensure state participation
in project financing, and coordinate the work of government agencies and
banks. This POA process would assist the gradual decentralization of
decision making to the states. To that end, the PMU would use its own
staff and about $5.0 million for technical support to define the operting
norms of the POA process, assist with project startup training and
assistance, and strengthen the organization and management capabilities of
each of the ECEs and other cooperating federal and state agencies.
4.       PRONI would use an additional $15.0 million under the
Institutional Development (ID) component to pursue a second set of longer-
term, policy-oriented activities. The ID programs, to be coordinated by
the PMU, would: (a) strengthen public backing for the expansion of
irrigation; (b) generate farm-r interest in and provide guidance for on-
farm investment planning; (c) support new research and training approaches
to strengthen extension; (d) sponsor research on both production and socio-
economic implications of the continued expansion of irrigation; and
(e) gather data and outline policy alternatives for long-term water
resource management. A separate ID effort would oversee the design and
implementation of an independent, ongoing evaluation of the socio-economic
1/ A detailed presentation of this component is in the Project File.



-26-
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
impact of irrigation activities, including those under the proposed
project. For the most part, the ID work would be executed through PRONI
contracts with private consulting firms, researcn foundations and
universities.
5.       If planned properly, the execution of the project's investment
components (electrification and small hydraulic works) should be a fairly
straightforward matter; the management capabilities of the PMU, ECEs and
cooperating agencies should be adequate to project needs. The demand by
farmers for credit, which would not be financed from the loan, would depend
on both the economic climate and the availability of complementary
electrification and other infrastructure. Full disbursement for the
electrification and hydraulic works contracts would be likely to take the
full five years expected for project implementation. This extended
disbursement period should permit the gradual, iterative institutional
processes needed to develop state and local capabilities.
6.       PRONI management has a good sense of the substance of what needs
to be done with respect to Institutional Development activities related to
organization and management, and this work should go forward in parallel
with the project's investment components. Adequate lead time would be
needed, however, to incorporate ECE inputs and to manage these activities
in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. Strong Bank supervision
would be needed over the first years of the loan to ensure that these
procedures do not cause undue delays.
7.       Other ID work may prove more difficult.  The success of production
research and training activities would depend on the weoking relationships
between PRONI and entities belonging to the Ministry of Agriculture
(EMBRAPA, EMBRATER, PROVARZEAS and PROFIR). Strengthening these
relationships would in itself be an important project objective. Research
results on the economics of private irrigation (including cost recovery for
public infrastructure and maintenance expenses) and on the need for farmer
involvement in water management should lead to new organizational
arrangements and policy decisions. Similarly, long-term needs for water
management policy research would require time to define. Finally, PRONI
should be strengthened tu deal with the management of research programs on
socio-economic and environmental issues, including, for example, water law,
the tenurial and environmental implications of expanded irrigation, and
employment and income generation questions. All of these needs would be
addressed under the project.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project has been
estimated on the' basis of costs and benefits identifiable with the project
over 15 years. Benefits derive from incremental farm production, as
represented by nine farm models and 50,000 farmers expected to adopt the
types of on-farm investments proposed. The cost streams include the
investment and operating costs of farm production, periodic replacement of
farm machinery, public infrastructure investments (electrification and
hydraulic infrastructure), operation and maintenance of these investments,
and the costs of the Institutional Development component.
Where appropriate, financial prices were converted to economic
prices. For example, farmgate prices of tradable commodities (rice, maize,
soybeans and some fertilizers) were changed to reflect import or export
parity prices, based on international commodity price projections prepared
by the Bank. For non-tradable commodities, e.g. beans, vegetables, most
farm machinery and inputs, the economic prices were assumed to be their
domestic (farm gate) prices. Similarly, the economic cost of farm labor
was assumed to be the domestic wage rate, since there is little evidence of
unemployment in the project areas. Where necessary, adjustments were made
to eliminate the effects of taxes and duties.
It is expected that tertiary benefits would accrue to both the
public infrastructure components and the Institutional Development
component. In some areas, the electrification investments are likely to
contribute to rural (village) electrification, including rural industries.
Similarly, investments in drainage and water control structures are likely
in some areas to contribute to flood control and the availability of water
for small rural/urban centers. The Institutional Development component is
likely to generate benefits well beyond the project period, because of its
focus on production research and on shaping policies, institutional
strengthening and environmental protection measures for long-term
irrigation development.
Based on these assumptions, the ERR is estimated at 21Z.
Sensitivity of this estimate to changes in benefits and costs, at a
discount rate of 112 (the opportunity cost of capital), is indicated by the
following switching values.
Net Flows            Percentage Changes
Benefits                     - 29Z
Investment costs             + 40Z
These results indicate that the economic viability of the project would be
satisfactory.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
WAIt
IRRIGATION SECTOR PROJECT
Inctgmtal kwtts ad Costs
(Rilios of Apri1 1907 Dollara)
198I   199    19       19      1M      1       194    IM       16    17    10    19t    2000    2001    2002
iEINTMAL BIEFITS
Ol-FARK muiTs                      26    134    294    471    660         791     822    931    832    839    839    839    839    841            847
WAFANP WRATIN, COSTS               23      96     187    289      396    460      466    467    467    467    467    467    467    467            467
SUBTOTAL INREML DEEFITS             3      38    108      182    264    331       356    364      365    372    3172    372    372        374     380
IEWIENTAL COSTS
ON-FARR IIESTENT                   151    202    203    250       222      22      20      29      37      11      85     106    129      136     112
ATERIE WLPNT                        8       10     13      12       7       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
ELECTRIFICATION                     32     94      60      45      17       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
INSIITUWIOUt KWUENt T               3       6       6       2       1       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
SUBTOTA  INCRENITtAL CTS           194    312    281    308       247      22      28      29      37      I       85.   106      129     136     112
IEUIEIITNAL EET  WIITS
WERALL ET tWFITS                 -191   -274   -173    -126        17    309    320    335        329     361     288    266    243    238    268
NW 13 19M8  15154
SitOUll VALUES AT 112
W AISAL   SNITCHIN6   FERnTAE
STEMW                 VALIE        VKIE         OIGKE
BTOT             1.6166E$09  1.18462E009       -28.482
CTlT             1.18462E+09  1.65626Et09       39.812
Rbt Present  alue at MC MI t 471t639u741.6
Internal Rate ot Rhturr, 5 20.62
Coupen Eauivalant Rate ot Return 17.52



-29-
ANNEX III
Table 1I.1
BERAIL
IRRIGATION SECTOR LOAP
ProJect Components by Year
(US DOLLARS Hillion)
Total
Base Costs
(US$
1988 1989 1990  1991 1992 U1S DOLLARS Mlillion)
A. ELECTRIFICATION             37.3 108.4 69.5 52.0 20.S       287.4   287.4
B. H.YDRAULIC INFRASTRUCTURE    9.5  12.7  15.8 15.3  8.8       62.2    62.2
C. INSTITUTIOINAL DEVELOPMENT  ~,2   6,8  6.5 2.2 0.9           19.6    19.6
Total BASELINE COSTS             50.0 127.9 91.9 69.5 29.9       369.2   369.2
Physical Continseneies         5.0  12.8  9,2 b.9 3.0          36.9    36.9
Price Contingncies             0.8  6.4  7t8  8.8 5.2          29.0    29.0
Total PROECT COSTS               55.3 147.1 108.8 85.2 38.1      435.1   435.1
Taxes                          6.1  15.8  10.8  9.1  3.8       45.6    45.6
Foreign Exchange              17.8  50.5  29.7 23.  ?.2       129,8   128 .
_- -   ------------------ ----------_                     _  ._-_---..-.___-_



-30-
ANNEX III
Table 1.2
SumAcrv AcealJnt L bY Year
Base Costs               F)ei:
(US D3LLARS Hilliost;        F
1988 1989  1?70  11991 1992 . Th41      Av.r..
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. MATERIALS AND EQUIPHENT
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT                     26.9  80.4  41.5 31.5  7.3 187.6   C       '.0 Ti,S
Sub-Total MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT              26.9  80.4  41.5 31.5  7.3 187.6  50.0   93,8
D. CIVIL WORKS
ELECTRIFICATION                              7.4  19.4  19.4 15,1  9.7  71.0   0.0    0.0
DAMS AND DIVERSIONS                          5.0   6.6   8.2  7.9  4.5  32.1  21.0    6.7
DRAINAGE                                     4.5   6.1   7.7  7.4  4.3  30.1  21.0    6.3
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                          IS.9  32.1  35.3 30.4 18.5 133.2   9.8   13.i
C. ADMINISTRATION AND ENGINEERING
ADMINISTRATION AND ENGINEERIN6               3.0   8.6   8.6  5.4  3.2  28.8   0.0    0.0
Sub-Total ADMINISTRATION AND ENGINEERING        3.0   8.6   8.6  5.4  3,2  28,8   0.0    0.0
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMOET                    i.2   6.8   6.5  2.2  0.9  19.6  15.0    2.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                            50.0 127.9  91-9 69.5 29.9 36?.2  2.97  109.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                               50.0 127.9  91.9 69.5 29.9 36Q.' 29.7  109.8
Physical Continsencies                           5.0  12.8   9.2  6,9  3.0  36.P  29.7   tt.i
Price Contingencies                              0.8   6.4   7.8  8.8  5,2  29.0  !'7.6    i.Ol
Total PROJECT COSTS                                55.8 147.t 108.8 85.2 38.1 435.1  29.6  128.8
____  __=_5=_= = _=== =:==   =____ ==_= = =_= ===_ _
Taxes                                            6.1  15.8  10.8  9.1  3.8  45.6   0.0    0,0
Foreign Exchanse                                17.8  50.5  29.7 23.7  7.2 128.8   0.0    O.0



BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SECTOR LOAN
Table 1. ELECTRIFICATION
Dtailed Cost table
Eweitumn bw Finwtiers
(toS Nillion)
Base Costs            Total2 Ineuding rontwlerN;:-   --------------------------
(US DOLLARS Million)               iA "fiI,Of                      MPRLAW                      STATE 60WERNBENTS             FEIERAl4 6WWIEII T
1999 1999 1990 199 I92 total  198 1989  1990 1991  92 Total 1989 1999 1990 191 19   Totat   198 Im  1990 1991 1992 Totl 1988 1999 1990 1991 1992 Totl
1. INUEST1iET COSTS
A. ELECTRIFICATION
NATERIALS AND EDUIPiENT    26.9 00.4 41.5 31.5  7.3 IB7.6  30.1  92.4 49.2 38.7  9.3 219.6    - 92.*4 23.1 18.2  4.4 138.0   25.1    - 26.1 20.5 4.9  76.6  5.0  D.0   -   -   -  5.0
CIVIL VWS                  7.4 19.4 19.4 15.1 9.7 71.0  8.2  22.3 23.0 18.5 12.4 84.4                       - -    -    -    -  - 19.3 19.9 16.0 10.7 65.8  8.2  3.0  3.1 2.5  1.7  18.6
4DIII N   E116DIEERI       3.0  0.6  9.6 5.4  3.2  28.9  3.3  9.9 10.2 6.6  4.1  34.2    -            -   -   -    -        - 8.6  8.8 5.7  3.6  26.7  3.3  1.3  1.4  0.9  0.6  7.5
Sub-Total ELECTRIFICATION    37.3 109.4 69.5 52.0 20.2 287.4  41.6 124.6 82.4 63.8 25.8 338.2    - 92.4 23.1 18.2 4.4 138.0   25.1 27.9 54.7 42.2 19.2 169.0  16.5  4.4  4.5  3.4 2.2  31.1
Total INIESTEIT COStS           37.3 108.4 69.5 52.0 20.2 297.4  41.6 124.6 82.4 63.8 25.8 338.2    - 92.4 23.1 19.2  4.4 139.0   25.1 27.8 54.7 42.2 19.2 169.0  164.  4*.4  .5  7.4  ^.2  31.1
=          t   2=== == =c =2               == :                 2     =      -                      == ===  ==== === =2=  == =c-- ==  == == =22
Total                            37.3 10.4 69.5 52.0 20.2 297.4 41.6 124.6 8224 63.8 25.8 338.2    - 92.4 23.1 18.2  4.4 138.0   25.1 27.9 54.7 42.2 19.2 169.0  16.5  4.4  4.5  3.4  2.2  31.1
--==222 2--==                                                      ==== === ,        =--=  z-                __-- =-c                 -    --
xr z
o- x
- _,
.- r-



WRAZIL
R    TWI SECTOR LOU
Table 2. NHlLtC ]IFRASTRICTUE
Deailed Cost Table
E,egditumaf by Fi ersi
(tRo  mllian)
bse Costs           Totals I(cludiug Clntir iff- -es
(S DMLS Hillic)                 (M  Nlizon)                   h16LD B&l                    STATE  I    _MENTS           FEDI  IIUEIIT
1988 198 199 1991 1992 TOtal 198 18 199 191 1992 Total 1998 1m  199  9  19"   Total   1998I 1989 190 1m   1992 Tol 1988I199 19Y0 19  1992 Toal
1. INJESTNE T CIISTS
A. MATER 1EELET
WAIWmE                       4.5 6.1  7.7 7.4 4.3  30.1  5.1 7.1  9.1 9.1  5.5 3.8   5.1 7.1 2.8 2.9  1.7 19.4                 - 6.2 6.2 3.7 16.1    -   - 0.1 0.1  0.1  0.2
BS  MM DIJESJON              5.0 6.6 8.2  7.9 4.5 32.1  5.5 7.6 9.7 9.6 5.8 38.2  5.5 7.6 3.0 3.0  1.8 209                  -    6.6 6.6 3.9 17.1    -   - 0.1 0.1  0.1  0.3
Sub-Tota; MATER OEMLOPIENT      9.5 12.7 15.8 15.3 8.9 62.2  l0.6 14.6 19.8 18.8 11.3 74.0 10.6 14.6 5.9  5.6 3.5 40.3       -   -112.8 1.  7.7 33.2           - 0.2 0.2 0.1  0.5
Total IIIJEST CISTS                9.5 12.7 15.5 15.3 8.9 62.2  10.6 14.6 19.9 18.9 11.3 74.0 10.6 14.4 t.8 5.a 3.5 40.3            - 12.8 12.8 7.7 33.2    -   - 0.2 0.2 0.1  0.5
=   =   =   cs=       -      _s ==*ss == s==    s_s= s=   = 4g   .~ .-  =c= s-c.  s=               =:  = c       m     =   =              =
Total                              9.5 12.7 15.9 15.3 8.9 62.2  10.6 14.6 19.8 19.8 11.3  74.0  10.6 .14,..  3.8 5.8 3.5 40.3    -   -12.8 12,9  7.7 33.2    -   - 0.2 0.2 0.1  0.5
- - - -   - - - -   - - - -- - - - -   ---
> 
-j m



BRAZIL.
IRRIGATION SECTOR LOAN
Table 3. INSTITUTIONAL DEELOPENT
Detailed Cost Table
Expenditu!ws b- Fin-iers
(US$ Mlxlioun,
Base Costs            1:ts1h  Ircludinq Eo~*n   c-c    -         -       -
(US DOLLARS lillion)               rIISt r. .' O                       Lt' PANt                     STATE SOGE%RENTS               FEDERA! GWO    ET
19  1989 1990 1991 1992 Total  1918 1M   1990IM  1     992 Tot8a  1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 Total    1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 Total  1988 1989 1990 1991 199' Total
1. IN'JESTNENT COSTS
A. INST. _ _OPE           3.2  6.8  6.5  2.2  0.9  19.6   3.8  7.8  7.7  2.6  1.1  22.9   3.6  7.8  3.4  1.2  0.5  16.5         -       1.6  0.5  0.2   2.3     -       2.7  0.9  0.4   4.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS       3.2  6.9  6.5  2.2  0.9  19.6   3.6  7.8  7.7 2.6  1.1  22.9   3.6  7.9  3.4  1.2  0.5  16.5         -    -  1.6  0.5  0.2   2.3      -    - 2.?  0.9  C.4   4.0
Total                         3.2  6.9  6.5  2.2  0.9  19.6   3.6  7.S  7.7  2.6  1.1  22.9   3.6  7.8  3.4  1.2  0.5  16.5             -  1.6  0.5  0.2   2.3      -    - 2.7  C.9  0.4   4.C
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
fD X
U. _r



BRAZIL
IRRIGATION F.CTOR LOAN
Financing Plan by Sumary Accounts
(USS Million)
STATE       FEDERAL
onRLD BANKi  GOVERNHEN TIS' GWERNMENT      Total             Local
-- -- ---  For.  (Exci. Duties 3
Amount  I    Aiount  X    Amour-t.      A Amoont   7    E::ch. Texes'  T7?es
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. MATERIALS AND E0UIPMENT
MACHINERY AND EOUIPMENT                      138.0 62.9    76.6 34.9     5.0  2.3   219.6  50.5  10?.8    91.3       32.s
Sub-Total MATERIALS AND EUJIPMENT               138.0 62.9    76.6 34.9     5.0  2.3   219.6  50.5  109.8    81.3        28.5
B. CIVIL WORKS
ELECTRIFICATION                                  -    -    65.8 78.0    18.6 22.0    94.4  19.4       -    78.5        5.9
DANS AD DIVUERSIONS                           20.9 54.6   17,1 44.8      0.3  0.7    38.2   S.9    8.0    24.5         5.7
DRAINAGE                                      19.4 54.3    16.1 45.0     0.2  C.?    35.8   8.2   7.5    22.9          5.4
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                            40.3 25.4    99.1 62.5    19.1 12.0   158.4  36.4   15.5  125.         *,.f
C. ADININSTRATION AND ENGINEERING
ADINISTRAT1DN AND ENGINEERING                    -    -    26.7 78.1     7.5 21.9    34.2   7.9       -    34.2          -
Sub-Total ADMINISTRATION AND ENGINEERING            -    -    26.7 78.1      7.5 21.9    34.2   7.9      -    34.2          -
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                     16.5 72.3     2.3 10.1     4.0 17,6    22.9   5.3    3.4    19.4           -
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                             194.9 44.8   204.6 47.0    35.6  8.2   435.1 100.0  128,8   2A0.7        '5.6
Total Disbursement                                  194.9 44.8   204.6 47.0    35.6  8.2   435.1 100.0  12S.8  260.7         45.6
- - - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~ -------= ---    ---       -5 ------ -w -= - S~ ------- - =  _=== --------- -= - ss==--    r.- =s=  s.=--__=



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank         Quarter        Disbursed During          Cumulative        Balance
Fiscal Year      Ending              Quarter            Disbursement       of Loan
Amount   X of Total
1989    Sept. 30, 1988             12.0           12.0        6         183.0
Dec. 31, 1988              6.0           18.0         -        177.0
March 31, 1989             6.0           24.0        12         171.0
June 30, 1989              6.0           30.0         -        165.0
1990    Sept. 30, 1989              6.0           36.0       19         159.0
Dec. 31, 1989             67.0          103.0         -         92.0
March 31, 1990            10.0          113.0        58         82.0
June 30, 1990             10.0          123.0         -         72.0
1991    Sept. 30, 1990             10.0          133.0-      68          62.0
Dec. 31, 1990             18.0          151.0         -         44.0
March 31. 1991             5.0          156.0        80         39.0
June 30, 1991              5.0          161.0         -         34.0
1992    Sept.30, 1991               5.0          166.0       85          29.0
Dec. 31, 1991              7.0          1'3.0         -         22.0
March 31, 1992             4.0          X 7.0        91          18.0
June 30, 1992              4.0          181.0         -         14.0
1993    Sept. 30, 1992              4.0          185.0       95          10.0
Dec. 31, 1992              4.0          189.0         -          6.0
March 31, 1993             2.0          191.0        98           4.0
June 30, 1993              2.0          193.0         -          2.0
1994    Sept. 30, 1993              1.0          194.0        -           1.0
Dec. 31, 1993              1.0          195.0       100           -



- 36 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 1
BRAZIL
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Documents Available in Proiect Files
1. PRONIt Project Proposal, July 1987 (in 26 volumes).
2. PRONIs Operating Plan - 1987, Preliminary Version, April 1987.
3. PRONI: Annual Operating Plan 1988, Preliminary Version, January 1988.
4.  PRONI: Basic Proposal 1986/90 (Vol. 14 of a PRONI series).
5. Brazil, Farming Systems and Farm Models, June 1987, J. Landers.
6. Working Papers on Electrification, Water Development and Institutional
Development components - implementation volume.
7. PRONI: Project Implementation and Institutional Development, December
1987.
8. Legal Instruments for PRONI/IBRD Program, April 1988.
9. Technical-Economic Report on Electrification Component, October 1987.



NOTES



I
MAP SECTION



18RD 20841
tO   VENEZUELA               'Ct               (RW&           b                                                     BO Ol
-'25 %5. !SURINAMEGUIANA                                              BR A Z I L
COLOMBIAeiBost.                                               / //                         IRIRGATION SUB-SECTOR LOAN
07 OR                              AMIk JAPA
-0.'
0*       <  l1\r-,- 7 I 
J~~~~~~~~~T SOTH                                                                                                                     O          T1               1   '       ER
Fortolezo
.11   N~ID  DONORTE
lot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa
_~ ~ ~       ~I, 'A             r\ &/                             ^        o 2030          -      neNrin  Brnrie
I,                                                                                           S ERGIPE
P E RU                                                       T
R       G C      i                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ivodor
BOLIVIA   ~~~~~~~~~~~~              GionoBfASLI 
B 0,..,,. L... -I/- V- I URGAY                     Gi n asRie 1.
-20-
I Q. ., .                                                               a                 ....................... _._. ..........rabo  Project area Bod.,aries
sr i                 ',ROIN9
~~,Bra,iIo~~  )  I   A R G  E N  T iP    A   ~5our{~CRAO
:AME~~~~~~ICA  (              10 GRAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E DO 51111                 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~State Capita.1
/    1         -'N      PortoAleg?e                                -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Region Boundaries
o      N             ~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERtS 0 10O 20t0 35D 400 500 .--. Stote Boundaries
I.'                                            >N.A1/         tAi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Les O   I&  26036  International Boundaries
URUGUAY                                                  ivem.                      10
NOVEMBER 19R7



