Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2950 BR
(Irrigation Subsector Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 21, 1988
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 1988, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in financing the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out on the federal level by the Borrower 
through its Office of the Minister of Irrigation, and on the state level by 
Participating States and Executing Entities (as those terms are hereinafter defined). 
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower will make available the proceeds of the Loan 
as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions), with the last 
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Office of the Minister of Irrigation" means the Borrower's Office of the 
National Irrigation Program headed by the Extraordinary Minister for Irrigation 
Affairs, established pursuant to Decree No. 92.395 (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
"PRONI" means the National Irrigation Program, for the South, Southeast, 
Central-west and North Regions, Programa Nacional de Irrigacao para as Regioes Sul, 
Sudeste, Centro-oeste e Norte, established under the direction of the Office of the 
Minister of Irrigation;
(c)
"Decree No. 92.395" means Decreto No. 92.395 of February 12, 1986 of the 
Borrower, as amended by Decreto No. 94.314 of May 7, 1987, establishing the Office of 
the Minister of Irrigation within the Office of the Presidency, and establishing PRONI 
under the direction of such Minister;
(d)
"DNOS" means the National Sanitation Works Department, Departamento 
Nacional de Obras de Saneamento, established under the direction of the Office of the 
Minister of Irrigation;
(e)
"MINIFAZ" means the Ministry of Finance, Ministerio da Fazenda, of the 
Borrower;
(f)
"MINAGRI" means the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministerio da Agricultura, 
of the Borrower;
(g)
"Treasury" means the National Treasury, Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional, 
of MINIFAZ;
(h)
"MHU" means the Ministry of Housing, Urban Affairs and Environment, 
Ministerio da Habitacao, Urbanismo e Meio Ambiente, of the Borrower;
(i)
"SEPLAN" means the Secretariat of Planning and Coordination within the 
Office of the Presidency of the Borrower, Secretaria de Planejamento e Coordenacao 
Geral da Presidencia da Republica;
(j)
"MME" means the Ministry of Mines and Energy, Ministerio de Minas e 
Energia, of the Borrower;
(k)
"CONAMA" means the National Environmental Council, Conselho Nacional do 
Meio Ambiente, established by Lei No. 6.938 of August 31, 1981 of the Borrower;
(l)
"ELETROBRAS" means Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A., a public utility 
company wholly-owned by the Borrower, established by Lei No. 3.890-A of April 25, 196l 
of the Borrower;
(m)
"Environmental Protection Master Plan" means the plan of measures to 
protect the environment related to the power sector, provided to the Bank under the 
Electric Power Sector Loan, Loan No. 2720 BR, entered into between the Borrower and 
the Bank, dated July 15, 1986, and specifically pursuant to Section 2.04 of the 
Project Agreement, entered into between the Bank and ELETROBRAS, also dated July 15, 
1986, as such plan may be updated from time to
time;
Page  3
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil;
 
(p)
"Consultative Council" means the council of government representatives, 
Conselho Consultivo do Programa PRONI/BIRD, to be established pursuant to Section 3.04 
(a) (i) of this Agreement;
(q)
"Project Unit" means the management unit established by the Borrower as 
part of PRONI pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) (ii) of this Agreement; and "Project 
Manager" means the Manager of the Project Unit, Gerente do Projeto;
(r)
"Coordinating Arrangements" means the procedures and other arrangements 
to be established among certain federal entities pursuant to Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement, for purposes of coordinating and facilitating the carrying out of the 
Project;
(s)
"Participating States" means collectively, the Distrito Federal and the 
States of Espirito Santo, Goias, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas Gerais, 
Parana, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, and Sao Paulo, all in the 
territory of the Borrower; "Participating State" means any one of such Participating 
States;
(t)
"Project Area" means and encompasses the territory of the Participating 
States;
(u)
"ECE" means the coordinating entity for each Participating State, 
Entidades de Coordenacao Estadual, established as follows:
(a)
Distrito Federal - Secretaria de Agricultura e Producao;
 
(b)
Espirito Santo - Secretaria de Agricultura;
 
(c)
Goias - Grupo Executivo de Irrigacao e Drenagem;
 
(d)
Mato Grosso - Secretaria da Agricultura;
 
(e)
Mato Grosso do Sul - Secretaria de Planejamento e Coordenacao 
Geral;
(f)
Minas Gerais - Secretaria de Agricultura e Pecuaria;
 
(g)
Parana - Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura e Abastecimento;
 
(h)
Rio Grande do Sul - Secretaria do Interior, Desenvolvimento 
Regional e Urbano 
e Obras Publicas;
 
(i)
Rio de Janeiro - Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura e 
Abastecimento;
(j)
Santa Catarina - Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura;
 
(k)
Sao Paulo - Secretaria de Estado dos Negocios da Agricultura; and
 
(v)
"ECEs" means, collectively, any or all of such coordinating entities;
 
(w)
"Operating Agreement or Agreements" means the agreement or agreements to 
be entered pursuant to Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement;
(x)
"SEC" means an electricity company that participates, or will 
participate, in the carrying out of Part A of the Project as set forth below, and such 
other electricity companies as shall be acceptable to the Bank: (1) Companhia de 
Eletricidade de Brasilia (CEB); (2) Espirito Santo Centrais Eletricas S.A. (ESCELSA); 
(3) Centrais Eletricas de Goias S.A. (CELG); (4) Centrais Eletricas Matogrossense S.A. 
(CEMAT); (5) Empresa de Energia Eletrica de Mato Grosso do Sul S.A. (ENERSUL); (6) 
Companhia Energetica de Minas  Gerais (CEMIG); (7) Companhia Paranaense de Energia 
Page  4
Eletrica (COPEL); (8) Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (CERJ); 
(9) Light Servicos de Eletricidade S.A. (LIGHT); (10) Centrais Eletricas de Santa 
Catarina S.A. (CELESC); (11) Eletricidade de Sao Paulo, S.A. (ELETROPAULO); (12) 
Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo S.A. (CESP) and (13) Companhia Paulista de Forca e 
Luz (CPFL); "SECs" means, collectively, any or all of such electricity companies;
(y)
"Executing Entities" means, collectively, the ECEs, SECs and any other 
entity, acceptable to the Bank which participates, or will participate, in the 
carrying out of the Project; 
(z)
"POA" means the annual operating plan, Plano Operativo Anual, for 
carrying out the Project prepared by each Participating State through its respective 
ECE; "Approved POA" means a POA for a Participating State which has been endorsed by 
such Participating State; "POAs" means, collectively, any or all of such state plans, 
and "Approved POAs" means, collectively, any or all of such approved POAs;
(aa)
"Consolidated POA" means the consolidated annual operating plan referred 
to in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement, and which includes a plan specifying 
sources, recipients, and timing for release of funds required to carry out the 
Project;
(bb)
"Plano de Aplicacao" means the annual plan, agreed to at the beginning of 
each fiscal year between the Office of the Minister of Irrigation and the Treasury, 
for release of funds for expenditures required to carry out the relevant consolidated 
POA to be financed by the Borrower or from the proceeds of the Loan, as updated and 
published in the Diario Oficial of the Borrower;
(cc)
"Irrigation Council" means the council, Conselho Consultivo Estadual, 
established, or to be established, by each Participating State to oversee irrigation 
development and referred to in Section I, paragraph 3 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(dd)
"State Convenio" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and each Participating State, the relevant SEC or SECs, and any other 
Executing Entities that participate, or will participate, in the carrying out of the 
Project, pursuant to Section 3.09 of this Agreement, and includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to such State Convenio; "State Convenios" refers collectively, 
to any or all of such agreements;
(ee)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovacao da Marinha 
Mercante-AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant 
Marine, established by Decree Law No. 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to 
December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of 
the Bank, may substitute for it, in whole or part, after
January 1, 1988; 
(ff)
"cruzado" means the currency of the Borrower; and
 
(gg)
"fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, Participating State, 
or Executing Entity, when applicable.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred ninety-five million dollars ($195,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special account in dollars in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  5
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Irrigation, or such other Minister as shall be 
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank, is designated as the representative of the 
Borrower for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out 
the Project, through the Office of the Minister of Irrigation, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, irrigation, environmental 
and public utility practices and shall provide, and cause to be provided by the 
Participating States through the State Convenios, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project;
(b)
Without limitation to or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) 
above, the Borrower shall:
(i)
cause its Treasury to make available to the Office of the Minister 
of 
Irrigation all funds for expenditures, to be financed by the 
Borrower or from 
the proceeds of the Loan, required to carry out the 
Project in accordance 
with, and within the time periods set 
forth in, the relevant Plano de 
Aplicacao, provided, however, 
that such funds shall be made available prior to 
the fifteenth day 
after the beginning of each such time period; and
(ii)
through the Office of the Minister of Irrigation and pursuant to 
the State 
Convenios, make all such funds available to each 
Page  6
Executing Entity that has 
complied with its obligations under the 
relevant State Convenio, in accordance 
with the relevant Consolidated 
POA, provided, however, that such funds shall 
be made available on at 
least a quarterly basis.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause 
the procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out, and cause the Participating States 
and Executing Entities to carry out through the State Convenios, the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, and maintenance) with respect to the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to facilitate and coordinate the carrying out of the 
Project, the Borrower shall: (i) establish and maintain a consultative council, 
including representatives of the Office of the Minister of Irrigation, MINIFAZ, MME, 
MINAGRI, MHU, SEPLAN and three representatives of the Participating States; and (ii) 
establish and maintain within PRONI, a project unit which shall be composed of a 
Project Manager, assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, with key staff, 
operational structure and functions, acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit, each year, to: (i) obtain a 
draft POA from each Participating State; (ii) consolidate such POAs; (iii) submit the 
draft consolidated POA to the Consultative Council for its review; (iv) by September 
30, submit the draft Consolidated POA to the Bank for its review and comment; and (v) 
by November 30, submit the portion of the revised Consolidated POA relating to a 
Participating State to such Statefor its endorsement.
(c)
The Borrower shall approve, by December 15 of each year, a Consolidated 
POA for the next year.
(d)
Without limitation to or restriction upon its other obligations under 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall take all measures, necessary or appropriate, to 
ensure that the Project is implemented each year in accordance with the Consolidated 
POA. 
(e)
The Borrower shall cause the  Project Unit, prior to the adoption and 
issuance of the environmental guidelines and measures referred to in Section 3.08  
(a)(ii) of this Agreement, to furnish to the Bank for its  review and approval any 
proposed expenditures under Parts A and B of  the Project which may have adverse 
effects on indigenous  populations  or  wildlands,  or  which  may involve involuntary 
resettlement of populations or substantial clearing of primary forests or vegetation.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, shall enter into coordinating arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, in order to carry out, or obtain assistance in the carrying 
out of, the Project as follows:
(i)
Part A of the Project, with ELETROBRAS; and
 
(ii)
Part B of the Project, with DNOS.
 
(b)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or 
fail to enforce any provision of each such Coordinating Arrangement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all measures, necessary or appropriate, to 
ensure the provision and coordination of research, extension and training services to 
support the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, pursuant to the Coordinating Arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.05 (a)(i), cause ELETROBRAS:
(i)
to review, on at least an annual basis, plans for construction of 
power 
distribution lines and other works under Part A of the 
Project provided as 
part of each Participating State's 
Page  7
Approved POA, in order to ensure compliance 
with environmental and 
technical guidelines issued by ELETROBRAS and the 
Environmental 
Master Plan; and
(ii)
in conjunction with PRONI, to supervise the carrying out of Part A 
of the 
Project, and to determine: (A) measures to be adopted 
to facilitate the 
carrying out of the Project; and (B) adequate 
levels of investments to be made 
by each SEC under the Project.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an operating agreement or agreements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with each SEC, except those SECs exempted by the Bank, for 
purposes of grouping procurement of goods under Part A of the Project. Except as 
otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce any 
provision of such Operating Agreement or Agreements.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall, with the assistance of MHU: (i) carry out 
the study referred to in Part C.3 of the Project; and (ii) by September 30, 1989, 
submit guidelines for carrying out irrigation development, as well as measures for 
monitoring and enforcing such guidelines, to CONAMA for its consideration.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) by September 30, 1988, furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment, draft terms of reference to design the system referred to in 
Part C.4 of the Project; (ii) by December 31, 1988, furnish to the Bank final terms of 
reference, satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) by April 30, 1989, hire consultants for 
purposes of designing such system; (iv) by October 31, 1989, furnish to the Bank a 
final design, acceptable to the Bank, for such system; and (v) implement such system 
promptly thereafter.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying out the Project, 
enter into a State Convenio, satisfactory to the Bank, with each Participating State 
and any other Executing Entity that participates in carrying out the Project in such 
Participating State, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
change or fail to enforce any provision of each such State Convenio.
Section 3.10. Without limitation to or restriction upon its other reporting 
obligations set forth in the General Conditions and in this Agreement, the Borrower:
(i)
shall, through State Convenios, cause the ECE for each 
Participating State to 
submit to the Project Unit quarterly reports 
of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project in such Participating 
State;
(ii)
shall cause each Executing Entity participating in carrying out 
Part C.2 of 
the Project, to submit to the Project Unit quarterly reports 
of the progress 
made in carrying out such Part of the Project; and
 
(iii)
shall, through the Project Unit, submit to the Bank, every six 
months, a 
consolidated report of such scope and detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, of the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause all works financed under the Project to 
be made, and at all times operated and maintained, in accordance with appropriate 
agricultural, irrigation, engineering, public utility and environmental practices, 
including the Environmental Protection Master Plan, environmental and technical 
guidelines issued by ELETROBRAS, and when issued by CONAMA pursuant to Section 3.08 
(a) (ii) of this Agreement, the final environmental guidelines for irrigation 
development.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause to be maintained, 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of: (i) 
Page  8
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof; (ii) the Participating States through State Convenios; and (iii) 
the Executing Entities.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause:
 
(i)
the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year to be audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
the Bank to be furnished as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy 
of the report of 
such audits by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
the Bank to be furnished such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain and cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, and cause to be retained, until at least one year after 
the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such 
audits contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a change shall have been made in Decree No. 92.395 which shall materially 
and adversely affect the ability of the Office of the Minister of Irrigation or PRONI 
to carry out or
supervise the carrying out of the Project; and
(b)
Decree No. 92.395 shall have expired without the Borrower having made 
arrangements for carrying out and supervisingthe Project in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of 60 days.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  9
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
 
(b)
that a 1988 Consolidated POA, acceptable to the Bank, has been provided 
to the Bank;
(c)
that the Borrower shall have provided evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, 
that: (i) it has allocated adequate funds from its fiscal year 1988 budget to 
implement the 1988 Consolidated POA; and (ii) the funds for expenditures, to be 
financed by the Borrower or from the proceeds of the Loan, required to carry out such 
1988 Consolidated POA through the Effective Date, have been made available to the 
Executing Entities;
(d)
that the Consultative Council shall have been established;
 
(e)
that the Borrower has entered into the Coordinating Arrangements referred 
to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(f)
that at least seven State Convenios shall have been entered into between 
the Borrower and Participating States; and
(g)
that the Borrower has hired consultants for assisting in carrying out 
Part C.1 of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
 
(b)
that the Coordinating Arrangements furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement have been executed, duly authorized or ratified, 
and are legally binding upon the
respective parties thereto in accordance with their respective terms and that no 
additional acts, consents, approvals are required in order to make such arrangements 
legally binding; and
(c)
with respect to the State Convenios furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (f) of this Agreement, that the Bank has received an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the Bank, stating on behalf of the 
Borrower, the relevant Participating States and the Executing Entities signing such 
State Convenios, that each such State Convenio has been executed, duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower, the Participating States and each such Executing Entity, and 
is legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with the terms of
such State Convenio, that the parties thereto have full power and authority to carry 
out and operate their respective Part or Parts of the Project, and that all necessary 
acts, consents, approvals by the Borrower, the Participating State, and each such 
Executing Entity required to perform their respective obligations under such State 
Convenio have occurred and that no other acts, consents, or approvals are required.
Section 6.03. The date December 21, 1988 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  10
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Bloco 5-5o andar
70048 Brasilia D.F.
Brazil
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ 
0611506 MFAZ BR
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
Office of the Minister of Irrigation
SGAN Quadra 601 - Bloco I
Edificio Sede da CODEVASF
70830 Brasilia - D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
0611191
0614404
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Helio Gil Gracindo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Euerardo Wessels
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  11
By /s/ Vicente Cavalcante Fialho
Witness
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods under                                100% of foreign
     Part A of                                  expenditures;
     the Project               119,000,000      100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)
(2)  Civil works under          33,000,000      100% through
     Part B of the                              March 31, 1990;
     Project                                    and thereafter
                                                31%, or such
                                                other percentage
as shall be
                                                determined by the
                                                Bank effective
                                                upon notice to
                                                the Borrower
(3)  Consultants'               13,000,000       100% through
     services, studies                           March 31, 1990;
     and research                                and thereafter
     under Parts                                 100% of foreign
     C.1, C.2 and                                expenditures
     C.4 of the                                  and 45% of local
     Project                                     expenditures, or
                                                 such other per-
                                                 centages as shall
                                                 be determined
                                                 by the Bank,
                                                 effective upon
                                                 notice to the
                                                 Borrower
(4)  Unallocated                30,000,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                195,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in  the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
when determining the percentage of eligible expenditures to be financed 
under Categories (2) and (3), the date of an expenditure shall be the date on which 
payment for such expenditure was made.
Page  12
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$10,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after October 31, 1987; and
(b)
expenditures made in a Participating State unless the Bank has received: 
(i) a true and correct copy of the State Convenio entered into between the Borrower 
and such Participating
State; and (ii) an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable 
to the Bank, stating on behalf of the Borrower, the Participating State, and any 
Executing Entities signing
such State Convenio, that such State Convenio has been duly executed, authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower, the Participating State, and each such Executing Entity and 
is legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with the terms of such State 
Convenio, that the parties to such State Convenio have full power and authority to 
carry out and operate their respective Part or Parts of the Project, and that all 
necessary acts, consents, approvals by the Borrower, the Participating State, and each 
such Executing Entity required to perform their respective obligations under such 
State Convenio have occurred and that no other acts, consents or approvals are 
required.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(a)
developing private irrigation in the highlands and the flood plains 
included in the Project Area;
(b)
sharing planning with, and decentralizing the execution of irrigation 
investments to, the state and local levels; and
(c)
developing the policy and organizational framework to expand private 
irrigation and improve water resource management.
The Project is, except as noted in Parts A and B below, to be carried out in the 
Project Area and consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Electrification Related to Irrigation
 
Construction of electric power subtransmission and distribution lines and 
substations in areas selected by PRONI in the Project Area.
Part B:
Hydraulic Works
 
Drainage of flood plains and construction of small dams, stream diversions and 
other complementary works to control supply and disposition of surface waters in areas 
selected by PRONI in the Project Area.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
The provision of assistance in Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, and training for the staff of PRONI and ECEs.
2.
Development of a long-term irrigation strategy.
 
3.
The carrying out of a study to prepare: (i) environmental guidelines for 
irrigation development; and (ii) effective management, monitoring and enforcement 
measures.
Page  13
4.
The development and implementation of a system to evaluate the socio-economic 
impact of irrigation activities.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning November 15, 1993
     through   May 15, 2003                          9,750,000
________________________
*
The  figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective  
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
Page  14
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of Goods, Works
and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods financed under Part A of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank and to the extent practicable, goods 
purchased under Part A of the Project shall be grouped together in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent
of $500,000 or more; SECs shall consolidate purchase of such goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan with similar purchases by other SECs pursuant to an Operating 
Agreement or Agreements.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will befollowed in the 
evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such goods contain 
components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the complete 
goods.
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied (including FSRMM) in connection with the 
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or 
delivery of the goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be 
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A 
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group
A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of goods to be imported in each group B 
Page  15
bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of customs duties and other 
import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such 
group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods, and (ii) to the 
ex-factory bid price of goods supplied domestically offered in each group B bid an 
amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of customs duties and other import 
taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in such group B if they originated 
from the same foreign country as the bid included in group B which enjoys the lowest 
customs duties and other import taxes, or (B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such 
goods. If, as a result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it 
shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as 
determined under paragraph 3 above,
shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works under Part B of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Works under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$100,000 per contract, may be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
from at least three suppliers or contractors eligible under the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Part A of this Schedule, and 
the first 10 bid packages procured under Part C, paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such 
contract are to be made out of the Special Account such procedures shall be modified 
to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ, or cause to be employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  16
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account, such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and other evidence 
as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for Eligible 
Expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first
arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph(a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, 
minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
Page  17
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate 
cancellation.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms of State Convenios
SECTION I.
General Terms
 
1.
The Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds of the Loan required by each 
Participating State and each Executing Entity that participates in carrying out the 
Project available to such Participating State and such Executing Entities, but only on 
the condition that the parties to the State Convenio agree to be bound by the terms 
and conditions of this Agreement, including, without limitation, Sections 3.01 and 
3.02 (provision of funds), Section 3.03 (obligations under the General Conditions), 
Section 3.10 (reporting), Section 3.11 (standards) and Section 4.01 (maintenance of 
records and accounts) of this Agreement, and Schedule 4 (Procurement) to this 
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Bank and the Borrower.
2.
Each Participating State shall make available to each Executing Entity that has 
complied with its obligations under the State Convenio, the funds required by such 
Executing Entity to carry out its responsibilities under the Project, in accordance 
with, and within the time periods set forth in, the relevant Consolidated POA.
3.
Each Participating State shall establish an Irrigation Council to oversee 
irrigation development in the Participating State, which shall have membership and 
operating procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
For purposes of coordinating the carrying out of the Project at the State level, 
each Participating State shall maintain an ECE with an operating structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
Each Participating State shall cause its ECE to: (i) on an annual basis, prepare 
a draft POA for the relevant Participating State for purposes of carrying out Parts A 
and B of the Project and assisting in the carrying out of Part C of the Project; and 
(ii) submit such draft POA to the Project Unit by July 31 of each year during Project 
implementation. After agreement between the Project Unit and the relevant ECE on the 
contents of the POA, each Participating State shall cause its Irrigation Council to 
review such POA, and such Participating State shall endorse such POA, by November 30 
of each year. The Participating State shall ensure that all electrification, hydraulic 
works and other activities under the Project and financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan are carried out in accordance with each Approved POA. The Participating State 
shall cause its ECE to review and give ex post approval to project expenditures made 
in the Participating State as being consistent with each Approved POA.
SECTION II.
Terms for Carrying out Part A of the Project
 
1.
Each Participating State shall cause the relevant SEC or SECs to carry out Part 
Page  18
A of the Project, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the State Convenio relating to Part A of the Project, including, 
inter alia, that all power subtransmission and distribution lines and related power 
installations shall be constructed, operated and maintained in accordance with the 
relevant Approved POA and the standards, practices and guidelines set forth in Section 
3.11 of this Agreement.
2.
The proceeds of the Loan transferred by the Borrower to the relevant SEC or SECs 
shall be transferred as a loan from the Borrower under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.
SECTION III.
Terms for Assisting in Carrying Out Part B of the Project
 
Each Participating State shall, through its ECE, assist DNOS and Executing 
Entities in carrying out Part B of the Project by, among other things, providing to 
DNOS and such Executing Entities during each year of Project implementation, copies of 
the Approved POA.
SECTON IV.
Terms for Carrying out Part C of the Project
 
Each Participating State shall, through its ECE, carry out, and assist the 
Borrower in carrying out Part C of the Project.
