Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4225-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$375 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
February 3, 1986
tI   documuent h  a oLctd dllsbrlosn anid miay be ued by reripiets only in the perfeome of
their eical duties. Ift esumtni mey not otherwise be discloseed without World Bbli 'ntenmb- 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 24, 1986)
US$1.00      =  Rs. 12.44
Rs 1.00      =  US$  0.08
Rs 1 million = US$ 80,376
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 12.0,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
COI                  April 1   -  March 31
NABARD               July 1    -  June 30
Commercial Banks    January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDC           -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
GOI            -    Government of India
CB             -    Commercial Banks
DCCB           -    District Central Cooperative Banks
ERR            -    Economic Rate of Return
HYV            -    High Yielding Variety
ERDP           -    Integrated Rural Development Program
LDB            -    Land Development Bank
PACS           -    Primary Agricultural Credit Society
PLDB           -    Primary Land Development Bank
NABARD         -    National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NREP           -    National Rural Employment Program
PCR            -    Project Completion Report
Credit Review  -    Agricultural Credit Review to be financed
under proposed project
RBI            -    Reserve Bank of India
RRB            -    Regional Rural Bank
SCB            -    State Cooperative Bank
SEC            -    Senior Experts Croup



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
PALARD CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:       NABARD, for onlending to farmers for on-farm investments
through participating banks.
Amownt:              US$375 million (equivalent)
Terms:               Repayment over 20 years, including 5 years' grace at the
standard, variable rate.
Onlending Terms:       (i) COI to NABARD: Interest would be 6.51 (after a
reduction of 0.25Z for prompt repayment) per annum
in respect of NABARD refinancing of term loans of up
to nine years' duration and 7.0X (after a reduction of
0.25Z for prompt repayment) in respect of NABARD
refinancing of term loans of up to 15 years' duration.
Repayment of principal in lump sums at the end of 9 or 15
-years, respectively.
(ii) NABARD to Participating Banks:
(a) For small farmers, 1/ IRDP loans,
and all loans for minor irrigation
and land development, not less tJ'an 6.5Z.
(b) All others, not less than 8.0S.
Repayments to coincide approzimately with collections
from ultimate borrowers but not to exceed two years
beyond initial amortization schedules specified in
loans to ultimate borrowers refinanced by NABARD.
(iii) Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers:
(a) For small farmers, IRDP loans,
and all loans for minor irrigation
and land development, not less than 10.OZ.
(b) All others, not less than 12.51.
Repayments are based on borrowers' repayment capacity
and types of investments financed.
11 "Small farmers" are defined, in GOI terminology, as those cultivating
land that provides a yearly pre- development net return to the farmer
and his family of not more than Rs 2,000 based on 1972 prices.
This document has asriced ditibjtion and may be used by recimsonso  in Xt perfonnne of
thi offdci duties. Its coens my not orwime be diodned wihout Wodd Bnk authiutoiL



-ii-
Project
Descripeion:        The purpose of the project is to help increase
agricultural production through participation in NABARD's
ongoing loan refinancing program for investments on
agriculture, and to strengthen the agricultural credit
system. The project includes a component for extending
the existing pilot scheme for branch-level training and
farm-level credit delivery systems, along with the an
extensive training program component for the management
and operational staff of NABARD, the Land Development
Banks (LDBs), commercial banks (CBs), and Regional Rural
Banks (RRBs). A thorough review of the workings of the
credit system would also be financed under the project.
There is a risk that the more strict criteria governing
branch access to NABARD refinance may not necessarily
induce such branches to take the measures required to
improve credit discipline. A series of covenants are
designed to have NABARD take a more active_role in the
rehabilitation of branches to minimize this risk.
Secondly, there is a risk of continued general deteriora-
tion of loan recoveries in the agriculture credit system.
However, the project is designed to progressively reduce
NABARD refinancing of poor-performing branches and, under
either of the above risk scenarios, IBRD funds would not
be at risk, as repayments by participating banks to
NABARD are generally made on time and NABARD's own finan-
cial position remains very sound.



Estimated Cost: 1/
(US$ millions)
Item                             Local        Foreign         Total
I. NABARD Refinancing
(a) Schematic Loans:
- Minor irrigation/
land development                 1,413.3          157.0       1,570.4
- Farm mechanization                 667.4          117.8          785.2
- IRDP and other schemes           1,522.3           97.2        1,619.4
- Other (including dairy
livestock, plantations,
fisheries, forestry)               885.8           46.6          932.4
Subtotal                        4,488.8          418.6        4,907.4
(b) Nonschematic Loans 2/                330.6           82.6          413.2
(c) Pilot Scheme                          22.5            2.5           25.0
(d) Agricultural Credit Review             1.6            1.9            3.5
(e) NABARD's Training Programs             5.2            1.3            6.5
Total Project Cost                 4,848.7          506.9        5,355.6
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                        _            375.0           375.0
Dutch Government                            -              5.5             5.5
KFW                                         -             21.2            21.2
Ultimate Borrowers' equity                426.8          105.2 3/        532.0
NABARD and COI resources                3,464.2            -           3,464.2
Participating Banks' contributions        957.7            -             957.7
Total                               4,848.7          506.9         5,355.6
1/ Excluding taxes and duties (which are estimated to be small).
2/ Comprising loans for crop storage, input stocks, and rural
electrification.
31 Estimated indirect foreign exchange cost of purchased goods, of which
India is a net importer.



-iv-
Estimated Disbursements:
(USS millions)
FY87       FY88      FY89       FY90
(a) Refinancing
First Tranche               100.0        -          -         -
Second Tranche                -         80.0        -         -
Third Tranche                            -         80.0       -
Fourth Tranche                -          -          -        80.0
(b) Other Disbursements           9.0       15.0        9.5       1.5
Cumulative Total          109.0      204.0     293.5      375.0
Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
Appraisal Report: No. 5594-IN, dated January 24, 1986.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA FOR THE NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
1.      I submit the 'ollowing report and recommendation on a proposed Loan to
India in an amount of US$375 million equivalent to support NABARD in its activities
of providing credit to borrowers for agricultural investments. The Bank loan would
be 20 years, including 5 years' grace at the standard, variable interest rate. The
Government of India (GOI) would: (i) onlend US$340 million equivalent through
NABARD to cooperative and commercial banks to be made available as loaLis to
farmers; (ii) provide NABARD with US$25.0 million equivalent for the pilot scheme
for strengthening credit delivery and US$6.5 million equivalent for training
programs as a grant; and (iii) use the remaining US$3.5 million equivalent to cover
the costs of the proposed Agricultural Credit Review. The interest and exchange
risks would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.      An economic report, "India:  Structural Change and Development
Perspectives" (5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the Executive
DIrectors on May 1, 1985. Country data sheets are actached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 760 million
(in mid-1985) and an average per capita income of about US$260. Agriculture con-
tinues to dominate the economy, accounting for 36% of GDP, 23% of exports and about
two-thirds of employment. The steady increase in population, which continues at a
rate of 2.2% a year, has put increasing pressure on natural resources, in par-
ticular cultivable land. By the mid-1960s, nearly all productive land had been
brought under cultivation. While irrigation continues to increase total cultivable
area, an increasing share of the labor force will have to be absorbed in non-
agricultural activities. Industrial developrmnt has not progressed rapidly enough
to provide employment opportunities for the growing labor force, or to bring about
a rapid economic transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income
levels. As a result the long-term growth of per capita income has only averaged
about 1.4Z p.a. and close to one-half of India's population continues to live below
the poverty line. The pervasiveness and intensity of poverty is such that its
alleviation has been and remains at the core of India's development strategy.
4.      During the 1950s and 1960s, India's economic performance was generally
characterized by slow economic growth, moderate inflation and a sustainable exter-
nal position. GDP rose at about 3.5%, with agriculture and industry growing at
1.82 and 4.8% respectively; imports increased by 4.6% and exports by 5.8% a year.
India was able to reduce its dependence on foodgrain imports from a peak of 14% of
total foodgrain consumption in 1966/67 to 4.5% by 1969/70 through improvements in
agricultural production, but progress in poverty alleviation was slow mainly
because of continued high population growth.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the President's
Report for the Gujarat Urban Development Project (No.P-4187-IN), dated November
20, 1985.



-2-
5.      In the early to mid-1970s, in response to a sharp deterioration in India's
terms of Lrade, the Government introduced various policy measures designed to
stimulate exports. This resulted in a large increase in export growth to about
7.3% per annum in the 1970s compared with only 2.2% per annum between 1950/51 and
1969/70. While expanding world markets, particularly in the Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective
export incentives played a major role. The success in the export expansion effort
coupled with continued import substitution, particularly of foodgrains resulted in
a surplus on current account between 1976/77 and 1978/79, which was further
enhanced by increased concessional aid flows. India was thus in a relatively
favorable position to deal with the increases in international oil prices, the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade and a series of poor harvests. The
comfortable foreign exchange position also played a major role in the Government's
decision to initiate import liberalization.
6.      Towards the end of the 1970s, India again faced considerable domestic
difficulties. In 1979/80 it experienced one of the country's worst droughts which
caused a large reduction in agricultural production. In addition, industrial
production, plagued by labor unrest and a vicious circle of supply shortages (coal,
power and transportation), failed to expand. These events coincided with a second
round of incernational oil price increases. As a result, the curfent account
reverted to a deficit position and the remarkable price stability that the Indian
economy enjoyed after 1975 came to an abrupt end. The Government responded by
mounting an adjustment program, which was embodied in the Sixth Five Year Plan
(1980/81 - 1984/85). The program aimed at raising the GDP growth rate from its
historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% per annum while adjusting the country's external
balance to the adverse price developments in world markets. The major elements of
the program -were alleviation of infrastructure and supply constraints, increased
energy independence, improved efficiency in resource use, promotion of exports and
efficient import substitution.
Economic Performance Under the Sixth Plan
7.      Overall the Government's adjustment program has been effective despite the
severe drought in 1982/83 and a worsening of the external environment in the earLy
1980s. During the Sixth Plan period, GDP grew by 5.1Z per annum, 1/ well above
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. However, overall growth during the first
half of the 1980s has not been steady, mainly because of the effect of uneven
rainfall on agricultural production. In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substan-
tially recovered from the 1979 drought, with real GDP growing by 7.6Z and 5.3%,
respectively. The recovery was particularly robust in agriculture where normaL
weather helped output to rise by more than 15% in 1980/81 and 5.5% in 1981/82. A
severe drought in mid-1982 brought the economic recovery to a halt. Agricultural
output declined by 42, which in turn reduced GDP growth to only 1.8%, and put
further strains on the balance of payments and domestic resource situation. The
timely implementation of various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports,
procurement and distribution, and the increased allocation of power to irrigation
pumps mitigated the adverse effects of the poor monsoon. An excellent monsoon
combined with satisfactory performance of the infrastructure sectors, in particular
1/ Actual CDP growth rate during the 1979/80-1984/85 period was 5.1% per annum.
However, this figure overstates the trend in recent years because of the rela-
tively low base year (1979/80). The 4.5% GDP growth per annum and 3.3Z annual
agricultural growth between 1980/81-1983/84 (two "normal" years) are more
repr2sentative of the growth rates during the period.



-3-
coal and transport, led to a recovery of the economy in 1983/84. Agricultural
output rose by 92, industrial output by 4.5% and overall CDP by 7.42. The power
sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher growth, especially in
industry. In 1984/85, despite a mediocre monsoon and difficult political
circumstances, the aggregate growth of the economy is likely to range between 4 and
4.52.
8.      During the Sixth Plan period, foodgrain production continued to grow at an
average annual rate of 2.6% a year-sufficient to maintain a broad balance between
supply and steadily increasing domestic demand. The progress achieved is an
indication of the effectiveness of programs to expand irrigation, strengthen exten-
sion and encourage efficient use of other agricultural inputs which are being
implemented. Bountiful harvests have led to record foodgrain stocks in recent
years. Over the past year, Government held stocks have increased by more than 40S.
Maintenance of ample, balanced operating stocks to ensure smooth operation and even
expansion of the public distribution system remains a top priority of Indian
agricultural policy. Yet, the financial cost of foodgrain storage and subsidies
represent a rapidly growing burden on the budget.
9.     Growth of the industrial sector during the Sixth Plan period was slow and
uneven. Industrial growth averaged about 3.42 a year-below the growth rates
achieved in the 1960s and 1970s. An inadequate policy environment, coupled with
depressed domestic demand, power and raw material shortages, as well as labor
unrest are the main causes for the slower than anticipated growth of the industrial
sector. After the severe drought in 1979/80, manufacturing output grew at 1.7Z in
1980/81 and 3.32 1981/82. The drought in 1982/83, which led to widespread short-
falls of agro-based raw materials and a sharp drop in the demand for consumer
durables, combined with a prolonged textile strike in Bombay, reduced the growth of
industrial output to 1.7% in that year. Following the excellent monsoon in
1983184, industrial output gained-momentum and grew by 5.02. Preliminary estimates
place the growth of the manufacturing sector at about 5.5Z in 1984/85.
10.     The performance of the infrastructure sectors was mixed under the Sixth
Plan. While electric power generation, coal production and railway traffic grew by
8.72, 6% and 2.52 a year respectively, oil and gas production increased by 22.6Z.
The rapid expansion of domestic oil production is largely the result of India's oil
development program. Backed by substantial financial commitment, performance under
the program has been excellent with real investment and oil production levels
running well ahead of Plan targets. In 1984/85 domestic oil productinn is
estimated to have reached 29.4 million tons. While the gap between domestic con-
sumption of petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence on oil
imports dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to 30% in 1984/85. About two-
thirds of current output comes from offshore fields around Bombay High. As most of
these fields have now reached their mature stage, further increases in domestic oil
production will have to come mainly from new discoveries.
11.     India's economy has reverted from a situation of a resource surplus in the
late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit during the Sixth Plan period. The gap
between gross investment and national savings increased from negligibLe levels to
an average of 2.1Z of CDP in 1980-85. Gross domestic capital formation increased
from an average of 22.62 of GDP in 1975-80 to 24.7% in 1980-85 while gross national
savings remained constant at an average of 22.6Z of CDP in both periods.  The
increase in capital formation mainly resulted from an increase in the public
investment rate, but it was largely a financial rather than a real phenomenon since
prices of investment goods increased considerably faster than the general price
level.



-4-
12.     The basic thrust of fiscal policy during the Sixth Plan was to provide
sufiicie-t resources for growth and planned investment while maintaining inflation
under control. However, the Sixth Plan period was characterized by significant
budgetary resource constraints. Despite massive additional resource mobilization
efforts, public sector deficits exceeded 7% of GDP as compared to only 4-5S of CDP
during the mid-1970s. The shortfall was met by additional market borrolLaigs, both
domestically and from abroad and by deficit financing. Major reasons behind the
large deficits were continued losses by most departmentally-run undertakings,
unsatisfactory performance of the two major non-departmental undertakings of the
States (the State Electricity Boards and the State Road Transport Corporations),
and the increasing importance of subsidies which are estimated to have reached 2.8Z
of CDP in 1984/85. Of these, fertilizer accounted for more than 0.8% of CDP, and
food subsidies nearly 0.5Z of CDP.
13.     Developments in the savings-investment balances were mirrored in the
balance of payments. Thus, India's current account balance, which had recorded
surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging
US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of CDP during 1980-85. Several developments contributed to
these relatively large deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated sharply in
1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued to move
against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second,-a more liberal
import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net invisibles
declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated (reflecting
slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of interest on higher
levels of foreign debt increased. Fourth, export growth was sluggish partly due to
growing domestic demand, and, perhaps most significantly, due to depressed foreign
markets and prices. Faced with a growing need for external capital inflows and
stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance, India drew
SDR 3.9 billion from che Extended-Fund Facility of the IMF and borrowed significant
amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market snd increased the use of
suppliers' and export credits.
14.     Price performance during the Sixth Plan period has been mixed.  The overall
improvement in economic performance in the early 1980s, combined with more restric-
tive monetary policies in 1981/82 and 1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the
rate of inflation. The growth rate of wholesale prices declined from 18Z in
1980/81 to only 2.62 in 1982/83. The lagged effects of shortages of foodgrains in
1982/83 and of other agricultural products and industrial goods in 1983/84 coupled
with a rise in the domestic cost of imports and rapid liquidity growth, gave a
boost to inflationary pressures towards the end of 1983/84. The annual average
growth of wholesale prices rose to over 9% in 1983/84, and the rate of growth of
consumer prices exceeded 12%. In September 1984, the Government took a number of
measures to dampen pressure on prices including increased imports of important
agricultural commodiEies (sugar, jute, coconut oil and others), releases of sugar
stocks for distribution through fair price shops, and a reduction in wheat prices
for flour mills. These measures, together with a decline in cereal prices as a
result of the bumper crop in 1983/84 and a generally restrictive budgetary policy,
led to a slowdown in the rate of increase of wholesale prices to about 7.1% in
1984/85.
15.     Developments in the Indian economy during the Sixth Plan underscore the
progress that has been made in recent years towards acceLerated CDP growth, exter-
nal adjustment, and increased investment. The experience of recent years
illustrates that India i.as the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace.
It is a tribute both to the fundamental soundness of key policies and programs,



-5-
particularly in agriculture, and to the strength and effectiveness of public
administration, that neither the serious political disturbances in Punjab, nor the
assassination of Prime Minister Indira Candhi, resulted in significant disruptions
to the performance of the economy in the last year of the Sixth Plan. But the
results during the Plan period also highlight the disappointing performance of
industry, the continuing shortfalls in electric power generation, the rising public
sector deficits, the importance of regaining and sustaining momentum in export
growth and the need for continued prudent economic management so as to avoid a
resurgence of inflation thile generating adequate resources for development. This
mixture of achievements and challenges provides the context for an assessment of
development prospects and policies.
Development Prospects and Policies
16.     To deal effectively with its dual challenges of alleviating pervasive
poverty and expanding employment opportunities for a growing labor force, the
Seventh Plan is expected to aim at sustaining an annual rate of growth of GDP of at
least 5. The Seventh Plan which will lay down the development strategy for
1985/86-1989/90 is also likely to continue the emphasis on agriculture, energy
development, export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically
justifiable and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks.
17.     Achieving a GDP growth of around 5  a year will place heavy demands on
policy adjustment and entail major challenges. India will need to: (a) maintain
the recent higher rate of expansion of agricultural prodiction; (b) accelerate
industrial production and export growth through policy changes which enhance com-
petition and efficiency; (c) expand supply capacities in the econcmy by improving
basic infrastructure services and the availability of energy; {d) improve the
efficiency with which resources are used, including particularly the elisting
capital stock in infrastructure and industry; and Ce) furtber improve the already
high resource mobilization effort.
18.     Agriculture.  Despite an impressive performance under the Sixth Plan,
Indian agriculture faces many challenges in the second half of the decade. As
possibilities for extending cultivated acreage shrink, agricultural growth will
depend on finding new ways of increasing the productivity of land through further
development of irrigation, better water management, more intensive use of new
technology, efficient delivery of inputs and services, and appropriate pricing
policies. High priority must be given to the expansion of the country's irrigable
area through coupletion of ongoing irrigation projects, as well as selective
investment in new undertakifigs. Besides creating new irrigation potential, the
efficiency of irrigated farming will have to be enhanced through the improvement of
water management practices in existing irrigation systems. Greater emphasis should
also be given to obtaining higher yields under rainfed and dryland farming
conditions. Finally, even greater efforts must be made to build and strengthen
institutions to ensure the efficient delivery of agricuLtural services, input
supplies, credit and technology.
19.     Industry and Trade.   Prospects for raising India's GDP growth rate wiLL,
to a large extent, depend on more rapid industrial production and export growth to
be attained through improved productivity and efficiency. A key requirement will
be greater competitive pressure on industry than has been the case in the past.
The size and domestic orientation of the Indian economy make it necessary that this
competitive pressure come mainly from within the domestic economy. An important
complement, however, will be greater exposure to foreign trade to stimulate domes-
tic competition as well as to induce technological innovation and modernization.



20.     To increase domestic competition, domestic policies will need to allow
freer entry and exit of firms in the industrial sector and greater reliance on
market price signals. While the Government has taken various initiatives in the
above directions during the past several years, the most significant were announced
in the context of the 1985/86 Budget. These include the broadening of licensing
categories for certain industries, delicensing for others, increases in the size
limits for MRTP 1/ and small-scale industries, reductions in the incentive for
small-scale industries to stay small and various initiatives to stimulate efficient
indigenization of 'sunrise' industries (energy exploration equipment, computers,
telecommunication equipment, motor vehicles and parts, general electronics). These
are significant advances that need to be sustained in future years.
21.     Changes in external trade policy will also be required to stimulate export
growth which is essential not only for current financing of imports, but to enhance
borrowing capacity, to service debt, to provide an impetus to the economy from the
demand side, and to expose entrepreneurs to the quality-consciousness of competi-
tive external markets. While some changes have been recently introduced, there
remains a need to: (a) provide greater access to imported inputs and capital goods
through continued import liberalization (b) review tariffs, eliminating anomalies
and lowering their overall level; and (c) modify trade policies in such a way that
the net impact of incentives is more neutral between exports and Import
substitution.
22.     Infrastructure Sectors.  Investments in these sectors currently constitute
about one-third of total investment in India, and the efficiency with which these
investments are managed has an important bearing on the efficiency of total invest-
ment and the growth rate of the entire economy. There is substantial evidence that
better planning and management of public investments in power, coal, railways and
irrigation could improve returns and lower the current capital-output ratios. For
example, more efficient use of investment could be achieved by better water manage-
ment in irrigation projects, improved load factors in thermal power generation,
better capacity utilization in the fertilizer industry and improved efficiency in
railway transport.
23.     Resource Mobilization.  India's gross national savings rate (22.6Z in
1980-85) is already high for a country at India's level of income. Nevertheless,
the investment required to sustain the relatively high CDP growth rates realized
during the Sixrh Plan period--while holding foreign savings as a share of CDP at
prudent levels--will require some further increase in the aggregate savings rate
especially in public savings. Because there will continue to be well-founded
demands for expansion of current and capital expenditures in the public sector, the
burden for a reduction in the savings investment gap has to be put on the revenue
side. Increasing tax rates beyond their current high levels would be counter
productive. Thus, economically efficient pricing policies in public enterprises,
supported by improvements in their operational efficiency, are to be preferred over
tax increases as vehicles for increased public resource mobilization. The sheer
size of past and present public enterprise investment indicates that if proper
returns were made even only a part of them, an increase in revenues of about 3% of
GDP would be attainable. In a number of sectors, e.g. thermal power, railways, and
fertilizer, concerted efforts are being made--with Bank assistance--to increase
I/ Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969.



-7-
efficiency and reduce costs. These efforts need to be improved and expanded into
new areas.
24.     Balance of Payments.  A policy of sustained CDP growth of 52 per annum will
need to be complemented by measures which assure a viable balance of payments
position. Acceleration of industrial growth vill lead to a substantial increase in
import requirements, even after allowing for continued import sub_titution of key
bulk commodity items. Bank staff estimates place the export volume growth neces-
sary to support these growing import requirements without excessive increases in
external borrowing at about 8Z a year over the Seventh Plan period. Prospects for
India to attain the needed higher export growth rates appear to be reasonably good
because India's share in total world exports in value terms is only about 0.4Z,
leaving ample room for growth. Furthermore, India's exports are relatively less
sensitive to fluctuations in demand in the OECD industrial countries because
exports are well diversified with respect to both products and markets.
Nevertheless, success in India's export drive will depend heavily on changes in
domestic policy to improve the supply and profitability of exports.
25.     Even assuming favorable export performance, India will continue to need
substantial external capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable
future. Even with 8Z export growth, the 52 CDP growth implies an increase in gross
capital inflows from US$17.5 billion to US$34.5 billion between the Sixth and
Seventh Plan periods. In the past, the bulk of this financing was provided in the
form of official development assistance. In more recent years the availability of
concessional assistance to India has declined. Total bilateral grants and conces-
sional loans declined from a level of about US$1.3 billion per annum over the years
1979180-1981/82 to US$1 billion in 1983184. Moreover, there was a large deteriora-
tion in the terms of aid from multilateral sources. For example, while total
lending from the Bank Croup continued to increase in nominal terms, the grant
element declined from 712 to 412 as new commitments of IDA declined from a peak of
$1,535 million in FYBO to $673 million in FY85.
26.     In the event that official development assistance does not increase sig-
nificantly from recent levels, nearly the full additional financing required would
have to be provided from additional non-concessional borrowing from official and
commercial sources. This will increase India's debt service ratio from the present
level of 15.5% to 21.6% by 1989/90. Provided India can in fact, expand export
earnings along the lines described earlier, and provided India's past record of
prudent borrowi-ng and debt management continues, the country should be able to
raise the projected amounts. While its foreign resource requirements would be
manageable, the increase in its external debt exposure would leave it with little
cushion to deal with unfavorable eventualities and with the risks of policy change.
27.     In the short term, a relatively large level of external borrowing, includ-
ing an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with
the balance of payments consequences of the growth strategy described earlier.
Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on commercial terms
frGm the very low levels of the past, there are, of course, limits beyond which
India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather than accept debt on
unfavorable or unmanageable terms. While therefore a greater volume of both offi-
cial concessional and non-concessional assistance is warranced, concessional
assistance, in particular, will be invaluable in moderating the build-up in India's
debt service burden. Apart from the quantitative arguments for concessional aid,
there remains the imperative to assist India in addressing the problems of per-
vasive poverty. While India is now better placed than other poor countries to
tackle its development problems, the mobilization of additional resources to



-8-
address poverty problems is heavily constrained. Concessional assistance can also
play a very important role in relieving this constraint.
28.     Summary.  India has demonstrated that it can sustain a rate of growth
closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6Z per annum. If the rate
of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0 growth rate
would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita income of 1.4% per
annum. Success in these efforts would make a significant difference to the
prospects of easing poverty in India. Development prospects over the next few
years will hinge on the extent to which the economy can be brought into both inter-
nal and external balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than
in the past. This will require the continuation of the current development
strategy which assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance
discipline, improvement of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure,
supported by adequate flows of external borrowing and aid.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
29.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 91 loans and 182 development credits to
India totalling US$8,487 million and US$13,753 million (both net of cancellation),
respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,544 million has been repaid, and
US$7,360 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1985. -Bank Group dis-
bursements to India in the current fiscal year through September 30, 1985 totalled
US$179 million, representing an increase of about 5 percent over the same period
last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of
September 30, 1985.
30.     Since 1959, IFC has made 35 commitments in India totalling US$301 million,
of which a total of US$168 million has been repaid, sold, terminated or cancelled.
Of the balance of US$133 million,-US$126 million represents loans and US$7 million
equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of September 30, 1985, is also
included in Annex II (page 5).
31.     The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with the
country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricuLtural productivity,
and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural inputs to farmers
through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed projects. Major elements
of the lending program have also been directed at helping to meet the energy needs
of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the infrastruc-
ture bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth in India, particularly through
power generation and distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects.
The Bank Group has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-
scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support
of development finance institutions. Recognizing che importance of improving the
ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank
Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project,
as well as water suppLy and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
32.     This pattern of assistance remains highly reLevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the the Se,enth Plan. First, high priority
will continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While India has made
significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sustained
to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute to poverty
alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to support



-9-
irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural extension and
credit. Second, alongside COI's efforts in promoting greater efficiency and faster
development of the industrial sector, increased assistance will be provided for
industrial development. Third, in line with the stress which the Seventh Plan
gives to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and
to the development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources, the Bank Group will
continue to provide substantial support to the development of the energy, transport
and telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Fourth, support of urban
development and other GOI basic social services programs for the poor will also
continue in light of the growth in population which, despite successes in lowering
birth and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each year.
33.     The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in support of
the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic
reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in part to the
response of the aid community, India successfully adjusted to the changed world
price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India continues to require a substan-
tial level of foreign assistance both to offset the overall deterioration in the
world trade environment, and to sustain the relatively higher investment and growth
rates achieved during the Sixth Plan period. As in the past, Bank Group assistance
for project- in India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures.
India imports relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitive-
ness of the domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange
component tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in
such high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
34.     India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external capital
requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly, the bulk of
the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from IDA. However, IDA
lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.5 billion in FY80, mostly due to
funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA funds available to India is
likely to remain small in relation to India's needs for external support. Thus,
this requirement for additional assistance will have to be met, in part, through
larger Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is judged
creditworthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A continuation of
efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity, trade expansion,
higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate
of population growth should result in continued economic growth and improvement
in the balance of payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2%
in 1954185. This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly due
to the hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this
level through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are
considerably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not adver-
sely affect India's creditworthiness.
35.     Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion contributed by
the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1970/71, the Bank Group accounted for
22Z of total commitments, 11% of gross disbursements, and 10% of net disbursements
as compared with 68Z, 38% and 47%, respectiveLy, in 1984/85. In 1984/85, about
26.3% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group. On March 31,
1985, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was estimated to be
about US$26.5 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$11.1 billion or 42Z
(IDL.'s US$8.9 billion and IBRD's US$2.2 billion). As of September 30, 1985 out-
standing loans and credits to India heLd by the Bank totalled US$20,696 million, of
which US$7,360 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$13,336 million.



-10-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
General Overview
36.     Agriculture remains the mainstay of the Indian economy.  Farming and
related activities currently account for 35Z of India's Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) and 29% of its exports, and the agricultural sector employs
about 70% of the total labor force. Sustained agricultural growth,
especially in the output of cereals, has made it possible for food supplies
to expand roughly in step with the rising domestic demand, and has enabled
India to eliminate grain imports in recent years. The volume of agricultural
output has risen by about 2.6X-2.8Z since the late 1960s, the rate of growth
being closer to 2.8% in the early 1980s.
37.     The principal objective of GOI's agricultural policies during the
past 15 years has been to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains and to
increase farm incomes in an equitable manner. Significant progress has been
made, as attested by the remarkable increase in foodgrain production that has
enabled India to attain self-sufficiency, although a shortage of edible oils
persists. Nevertheless, continuing efforts to improve agricultural
productivity are essential to meet the increasing demand for food by a
population that is growing by some 15 million, or 2.2Z, per annum. Moreover,
in recent years, the rate of yield increases has been falling, and parts of
the country have shown little growth in agricultural production. The
projected demand for foodgrain by 1990, the last year of the Seventh
Five-Year Plan, is about 168-179 million tons annually, compared with the
actual production of about 151 million tons in 1983/84. 'This means that
projected levels will not be reached unless production increases at an annual
rate of about 2.7Z-2.8Z; in shert, historical growth rates must continue,
suggesting that the recent slowing of yield increases will need to be
reversed.
38.     India's agricultural gains over the last 15 years are due, in large
part, to the widespread use of high-yielding hybrid cereal varieties (HYVs)
and to the more extensive application of fertilizers and other-inputs in
cultivation, all of which have been made possible by a large-scale investment
program in irrigation facilities and agricultural extension efforts. By
1983/84, fertilizer-responsive HYVs, which were initially introduced in India
in the iaid-1960s, were used in over half the area devoted to cereal
production. Fertilizer consumption, which totaled-1.8 million tons in
1968169, rose to 7.8 million tons by 1983/84.
39.     In addition to the increased expenditures on yield-enhancing inputs,
the agricultural sector has also benefitted from high levels of capital
investments by both public agencies and by private sources over the last 15
years. The irrigation potential created through publicly funded dams and
canals rose from 18 million hectares in 1968/69 to more than 30 million
hectares in 1983/84, and there has been a concomitant and substantial private
farm-level investment program in land leveling, soil conservation, and the
construction of field channels to make use of the irrigation capacity created
through these major public-funded schemes. Private investment has also



-1l-
supported "minor" irrigation schemes involving the installation of tubewells,
dugwells, and pumpsets that will make it possible to access India's
considerable groundwater potential. Private agricultural capital formation
in India also encompasses construction of farm-based storage and marketing
structures, the acquisition of tractors and other mechanical aids, and the
purchase of livestock. Overall, gross agricultural capital formation is
estimated to have risen, in real terms, from Rs 13 billion to Rs 21 billion
over the decade ending 1981/82, the last year for which data are available.
40.     As agricultural development in India has become more capital
intensive, Indian authorities have sought to enhance the magnitude and
quality of both public and private investment in agriculture. COI's efforts
in the public investment program have been concerned witb major irrigation
works and expanded agricultural extension and research, and its initiatives
within the private sector have centered on the evolution and expansion of
the agricultural credit system so that farmers at all income levels can have
ready access to investment capital. Attempts to widen the coverage of
India's rural banking system and to enlarge the volume of funds channeled
through institutional means date back to the early 1900s; these efforts
became increasingly effective in the last two decades with the creation of a
number of institutions designed to provide credit and with the-development of
a loan-refinancing capability, initially within the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI) and, later, within a separate organization, the Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation (ARDC), which in 1982, was renamed NABARD and
which took over most of the functions previously performed by RBI in
agricultural credit.
Agricultural Credit - An Overview
41.     Historically, the cash-needs of India's millions of rural households
were met entirely by the traditional system of family financing and village
money lending, normally at usurious interest rates and for short periods.
But these sources were not well suited to the investment needs of modern
agriculturalists nor to the growth objectives of the nation. Therefore, in
recent years, specialized agricultural institutions have come to play a
crucial role in facilitating and accelerating private agricultural
investments. These institutions have several important characteristics: they
are able to appraise projects and lend for them on the basis of their
anticipated productivity; they have access to funds outside the rural sector;
and they can fulfill farmers' needs for production credit at a reasonable
cost.
42.     Institutional agricultural credit was introduced in India under the
Cooperative Credit Societies Act of 1904. By the early 1950s, institutional
credit still financed less than 5% of the financial needs of the rural
population. Since then, however, the share of institutional finance has been
growing rapidly and now accounts for approximately 50Z of total credit. The
rec2nt growth in institutional financing can be attributed not only to social
pressures and to borrower protection legislation, but also to the lower cost
of financing and the growing access-bility of credit institution outlets.
By 1984, the agricultural banking system had more than 130,000 outlets, and
virtually all of India's 5,000 administrative blocks contained at least one
outlet of an institutional credit facility. Annual institutional



-12-
agricultural credit to farmers increased from Rs 6 billion in 1968/69 to
about Rs 58 billion in 1984/85, and estimates for COI's Seventh Five-Year
Plan (1985-1993) suggest a figure of Rs 125 billion per year by 1989/90 for
short, medium- and long-term loans.
43.     Agriculture credit operations are guided and regulated by rhe RBI.
NABARD (formerly ARDC) was created as an apex institution to provide
refinancing, tu develop lending policies that would guide the financial
intermediaries, and to act as the policy vehicle for RBI's regulatory
activities in the sector. At present, the main institutions to offer medium-
and long-term lending 1/ are the cooperative banks and the commercial banks,
with the latter providing more than half of the total financing. Since 1975,
the Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) have also entered into agricultural lending
and currently provide about 10% of the total funds. Under NABARD guidance,
all these banking windows offer similar terms and conditions to the farmers.
The Cooperative Banks are organized by individual States into two independent
groups of institutions: (a) Land Development Banks (LDBs) for long-term
credit, and (b) State Cooperative Banks (SCBs) for short- and medium-term
credit. There are 19 LDBs, each consisting of a State Land Development Bank
that lends either through its own branches or by refinancing affiliated
Primary Land Development Banks (PLDBs). LDBs do not take deposits, make
seasonal loans, or lend for non-agricultural purposes. The SCB structure
is much larger and more diversified. In 1984, 24 SCBs provided funds for 337
District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCBs), which, in turn, onlent funds to
about 94,000 Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS). These PACS, which
specialize in production and medium-term credit, also provide a variety of
other services to their members, including facilities for savings, input
supply, staple consumer goods supply, and crop marketing. The participation
of SCBs and their affiliated DCCBs and PACS in long-term lending has been
insignificant.
44.     The involvement of Commercial Banks (CBs) in agricultural lending is
relatively recent and accounts for only a modest proportion of their total
business. Even so, CB lending to the agricultural sector increased from 5%
of their total loan portfolio in 1968/69 to about 15% today. The CBs'
ability to provide both short-term (production) and medium- to long-term
(investment) loans and their correspondingly greater flexibility with regard
to taking collateral, have given them an advantage over the LDBs; the CB
share of rural lending has therefore increased at the expense of the LDBs.
Since 1975, the Regional Rural Banks have been increasing their activities
in agricultural lending,-and their share is now about 10% of India's
institutional rural credit. RRBs were created specifically to lend to the
weakest section of the population having minimal access to other
institutions. Each RRB is sponsored by a local commercial bank and by the
State Government.
1/ By convention, short-term credits are seasonal production loans to
farmers for a period of up to 18 months; medium- and long-term (over 3
years) credits are classified as investment or term loans.



-13-
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD)
45.     NABARD was established by an Act of Parliament in 1982.  NABARD's
primary objective is to promote increased availability of credit for
agricultural investments, and, as noted earlier, it is the vehicle for
formulating agricultural credit policy and monitoring the implementation of
thcse policies. NABARD makes funds available to the various banks
participating in the supply of rural credit by refinancing loans made on
agricultural schemes 1/ that are judged by NABARD to be economically and
technically sound. NABARD normally approves schemes submitted to it by
participating banks, but it also assists in formulating schemes in less
developed States. Although its legal mandate for enforcing agricultural
credit policy should enable NABARD to influence the lending policies and
procedures of the participating banks, political considerations often limit
enforcement. Nevertheless, NABARD has contributed to the development of
agricultural credit institutions throughout India. For the year ending
June 30, 1985, NABARD's refinancing activity was split as follows: to CBs,
Rs 5.7 billion (representing 54% of total refinancing); to LDBs,
Rs 3.1 billion (30Z); to RRBs, Rs 1.4 billion (13%); and to SCBs,
Rs 370 million (3%).
46.     NABARD has a staff of about 2,700 of which 1,600 are professionally
qualified. About half are located at the Head Office in Bombay and the rest
work in the 21 regional offices. NABARD is governed by a 14-member Board of
Directors. The Chairman is a Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI), and the Managing Director, who is the Chief Executive Officer, is also
appointed by RBI. NABARD's sharehold3rs include RBI, the state LDBs, SCBs,
the Life Insurance Corporation of India, CBs and investment companies. It
derives its operating funds through borrowings from GOI, annual allocation of
quasi-equity funds from RBI, augmented by issue of bonds in the market, as
well as retained profits. For the year ending June 30, 1985, NABARD's
sources of funds were as follows: share capital, quasi-equity funds from
RBI, and retained earnings, US$2.4 billion; COI and RBI borrowings, US$2.0
billion; other borrowings, US$458 million. NABARD's 2/ after-tax profit
increased frem US$4.8 million in 1975/76 to US$154 million in 1984/85.
The Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP)
47.     In 1978, the Government of India (GOI) established the IRDP as an
amalgamation of many ongoing rural poverty-alleviation programs. It, along
with the National Rural Employment Program (NREP), has consistently been
l/ "Schemes" are a series of individual on-farm investments grouped
together to simplify the administration of the loan application,
disbursement, and subsequent debt servicing.
2/ Throughout chis report, reference to NABARD, which was created by Act
of Parliament in 1982, includes reference to NABARD's organizational
predecessor--the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC), which itself was created as a separate entity from the RBI in
July 1963.



-14-
accorded high priority in GOI's national development plans. IRDP's objective
is to identify, each year, about 600 families with incomes of less than
Rs 3,500 per year (US$292) from all sources in each of India's more than
5,000 blocks (a block is a subdivision of a district), and to provide those
families with productive investments through a subsidized loan program. The
program uses staff from the commercial and cooperative banks, from NABARD,
and from State Covernment planning agencies to review farmers' needs in a
selected block, identify investment opportunities, and prepare block
development plans and associated requirements for financing by the
participating banks. NABARD can and does refinance the resultant loans made
by the banks to individuals within the context of the block development plan
and this component of NABARD's operations has been growing rapidly--from 1%
of total disbursements in FY79/80 to 33% in FY84/85.
Previous Bank Experience in Agricultural Credit
48.     The Bank Group involvement dates back to the formulation of ten
State-based agricultural credit projects approved between 1969 and 1973.
They were implemented through ARDC, and are fully disbursed. Subsequently,
ARDC was entrusted with four general lines of credit--ARDC I (Cr. 540-IN of
April 1975), ARDC II (Cr. 715-IN of June 1977), ARDC III (Cr. 947-IN of
August 1979), and ARDC IV (Cr. 1209-IN/Ln. 2095-IN of February-1982)--which
have all been fully disbursed. In addition, ARDC/NABARD has also been
indirectly involved in the implementation of another 25 projects financed by
the Bank Group in irrigation, tree crop development, marketing, horticultural
processing, inland and marine fisheries, seed production, and
sericulture--all of which relied, among other sources, on long-term financing
from ARDC/NABARD to supplement Bank Group funds. Bank Group disbursement7s to
GOI for onlending under the four completed ARDC general iines of credit
totalled US$875 million. -
49.     The State-based projects were designed mainly to support lending
programs to farmers by LDBs and, to a lesser extent the CBs, for investments
in minor irrigation (representing more than 80% of the total refinancing
program), land leveling and, in six States, farm mechanization. Most of the
projects also required the State Governments concerned to establish or
strengthen a groundwater agency responsible for monitoring the scale of
groundwater investments financed through institutional credit to protect
against over utilization of the groundwater potential. Each project required
participating banks to adopt specific loan appraisal procedures that were
based on incremental income calculations rather than on security-oriented
factors, to observe uniform lending terms and, in several cases,to implement
improvements in management and staffing methods. Physical targets for the
minor irrigation components were achieved or surpassed. Farm mechanization
targets were also reached in most cases, but land development loans were
somewhat delayed by organizational or legaL difficulties but they were
eventually completed. Groundwater resource evaluation techniques and
practices improved in all project States. However, the spacing and density
criteria used for siting minor irrigation investments were not applicable to
privately financed investments and were therefore only partly effective in
regulating groundwater abstraction.



-15-
50.     With the improving capability of ARDC to appraise and supervise
lending schemes independently of IDA and with the growing experience of
participating banks in development lending, IDA agreed in 1975 to change the
concept of its agricultural credit projects to a general line of credit to
support lending approved by ARDC throughout India. This move was expected to
bring better coverage of the nation and allow more flexibility in the type of
lending, since ARDC could appraise schemes that would be too small for IDA to
approve individually. All four of these general ARDC projects were completed
on or ahead of schedule.
51.     An ex-post review of the ten State-based and three general
line-of-credit projects completed through 1982 indicates that about US$2.4
billion investments were made in tubewells, dugwells, and pumpsets, which
placed an estimated 3 million hectares of incremental irrigated area under
production. According to evaluation studies by NABARD, this incremental
irrigation has enabled India to produce an additional 4.8 million tons of
foodgrain per year. Additional employment resulting from the projects was
estimated at about 2 million man-years. The projects also played a part in
diversifying the pattern of refinancing by ARDC, the result of which was the
development of 110,000 hectares of plantations or orchards, the financing of
about 4,600 motorized fishing boats, the construction of 5 million tons of
grain storage, and miscellaneous animal husbandry investments.
52.     Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have been prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department for all but the one most recent ARDC
projects. All PPARs concluded that the projects met objectives, but
consistently questioned the adequacy of lending margins and financial
viability of some of the smaller branches, and the limited availability of
groundwater in some areas. Increasing attention is paid to worsening loan
recoveries and, in the ARDC I and II reports, the inadequacy of
ARDC supervision and staff shortages were noted in a discussion on lending
quality-versus-growth options. In addition, in 1981 the Operations
Evaluation Department prepared a report ll on the results obtained in the
State-based projects and in the first ARDC credit project. The review
confirmed the important contribution of the credit projects to agricultural
development in India. The review found that, although project benefits may
have been somewhat overestimated (mainly because of methodological
shortcomings), "there is sufficient evidence to conclude that this set of
projects was very timely, generally received strong institutional support,
and achieved an impressive measure of success." The review concluded that
the change from State-based projects to ARDC line-of-credit projects was
timely and justified, despite the loss of influence by the Bank Group on
State-based institutions. In the ARDC III project, which disbursed over the
two-year period 1980/81, although virtually all physical targets were
achieved as planned, serious problems emerged prior to and during the project
1/ Report No. 3415-IN, "Agricultural Credit Projects: A Review of Recent
Experience in India," April 8, 1981.



-16-
period, especially on the increasing level of loan overdues 1/ and the
inability of the various institutions, including ARDC, to control the rapid
growth of agricultural credit. A Project Completion Report is under
preparation for ARDC IV project.
53.     The continuing problem of poor loan recoveries from farmers was
addressed more directly in successive ARDC projects--largely by restraining
ARDC from refinancing those bank branches with already high levels of
overdues. This was done by introducing branch overdues limits or
"eligibility criteria" that, at some predetermined point, restricted or cut
off refinancing. During ARDC III and IV, these criteria were augmented with
specific rehabilitation measures designed to improve the institutional
performance of weak LDB branches. Eligibility criteria developed in these
projects, however, typically allowed even the weakest primary lending
institutions to obtain almost unlimited refinancing from ARDC with the
exception, during the 1978-81 interval, of LDB branches with recoveries of
less than 35Z, which were denied access to further refinancing during that
period. Various rehabilitation programs comprising financial, and procedural
measures, were introduced, but all fell short of expectations because they
did not seek out and address the basic financial and institutional weaknesses
of the participating banks and of NABARD itself. Branch staff performance
incentives during this period were based almost solely on voluiie criteria,
rather than on the quality of loans and/or recoveries. The effectiveness of
the rehabilitation efforts was further reduced by ARDC/NABARD's poor control
and guidance of the system.
54.     The most recent analysis of the performance of the credit system over
the past three years (1982-85) suggests that continued rapid growth in the
volume of loans outstanding has not been accompanied by a commensurate growth
in the management and operational capabilities of the many institutions
providing such credit. In a review of the system discussed with GOI during
preparation of the proposed project, it was agreed that a number of
fundamental problems must be resolved if the credit intermediation function
is to operate efficiently. Specifically:
(i) the expected role of credit in the agricultural sector must be
examined and measures developed to make the overall credit delivery
system more efficient and responsive to farmers' needs;
(ii)  the respective roles and modus operandi of hABARD, the SCBs and their
associated cooperative banks, LDBs, CBs, and RRBs must be clarified,
along with staffing and training requirements;
(iii)  lending units should be allowed sufficient margins to enable
efficient and profitable credit intermediation function to be
performed by all components of the system; and
1/ ARDC did not bear the financial burden of these unrecovered loans: the
burden was absorbed either by the parent commercial banks or, in the case
of LDBs, by the State Government budget.



-17-
(iv) appropriate monitoring and control mechanisms and staff training
programs must be designed and implemented to ensure that the growing
system is efficiently managed.
GOI is fully committed to a high leveL of agricultural development since,
without it, neither its macro-economic nor its poverty alleviation objectives
can be achieved. The challenge facing the Government is how this continued
growth is to be matched by concomitant improvements in the many institutions
charged with the responsibility for implementing the Government's credit
policies and managing the accompanying growth in agricultural credit.
PART IV - The Project
55.     In late 1983, GOI asked the Bank to provide a fifth general line of
credit to fund NABARD's refinancing activities. The project was prepared by
the Bank with the assistance of staff from NABARD and the Ministry of
Finance. It was appraised in December 1984, and a report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
(NABARD) Project" (Report No. 5594-IN, dated January 24, 1986) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C., in November 1985. The Government of India and NABARD were
represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. P. Singh of the Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance.  A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
56.     While experience with previous agricultural credit operations in
India suggests that the production objectives were largely achieved, the
achievements in strengthening the capacity of the financial intermediation
system were much less than desired.  In particular, the poor loan collection
performance of many of the participating banks has required major infusions
of public capital to them. The modernization of Indian agriculture is of
major importance to the national economy and will clearLy require growing
amountq of producer credit. The option, therefore, of having the operations
of the credit system held back until institutional performance is fully
satisfactory is not one which the Government can afford to take. Equally,
it cannot afford to delay major improvements to the system.
57.     Within GOI and NABARD, there is now a general consensus that a major
overhaul of the agricultural credit system is overdue and that the Bank's
involvement in this overhaul process could be extremely fruitful. The
magnitude and scope of the task--achievement of reforms will take a minimum
of five years, and may well take more-strongly suggests that close
involvement by the Bank in each step of the review is highly desirable. Such
an involvement can best be orchestrated in the context of a project that
supports, in a meaningful way, NABARD's ongoing refinancing requirements,
and that can, at the same time, support key initiatives to rehabilitate the
system. These efforts would include in the short term the introduction of
more stringent eligibility criteria for access to NABARD refinance
facilities; intensified NABARD technical assistance to weak onlending
agencies; and a broadened piLot effort to improve the quality of branch bank



-18-
financing services and collection performance. These steps, plus a series of
major studies to review systematically the issues in the rural finance sector
and specific further changes needed, should set in place over the medium term
the actions for needed reforms.
58.     In sum, the project would serve as the vehicle for initiacing
measures that would strengthen the agricultural credit system while
continuing Bank assistance to NABARD in its program of refinancing medium- to
long-term credit. Through its association with NABARD's ongoing refinancing
of rural credit, the project would also help to increase agricultural
production, rural income, and employment; in particular, it would emphasize
assistance to small farmers. These objectives are fundamental to India's
growth and poverty alleviation program.
Project Description
59.     The project would help finance NABARD's medium- and long-term
refinancing program with participating credit institutions (CBs, LDBs, RRBs,
and SCBs) over the three-year period from mid-1986 to mid-1989. The project
would also finance the execution of the Agriculture Credit Review (hereafter
referred to as the Credit Review), the extension of pilot schemes to 20
districts, and training required for strengthening credit delivery at the
farm level.                                                      -
60.     The Refinancing Pro3ram.  Most of the funds (US$340 million) provided
under the project would be used by NABARD for its loan-refinancing program
with participating banks. The refinancing program for each of the next three
years (FY87, B8, and 89) would show sectoral allocations and would be
furnished to the Bank for its review and comments by the June 30 prior to the
start of each of these years. The refinancing program would include
investments in minor irrigation (both groundwater and surface water
development), and in electric pumpsets, dugwells, and tubewells. To avoid
excessive exploitation of groundwater potential through over-investment in
minor irrigation systems, NABARD would, on June 30 each year, beginning
June 30, 1986, provide an assessment of the lending potential for minor
irriga.ion schemes (to be provided by the State Groundwater Organizations),
including an analysis of the compatibility of its refinancing program with
this lending potential. The refinancing program would also include
allocations for dryland farm development, land leveling and soil
conservation, livestock, plantations and horticulture, forestry, fisheries,
storage markets, and farm mechanization. The rates of interest charged by
the various institutions and the loan repayment terms are summarized in the
Loan and Project Suimmary on page (i) above. The amount of refinance made
available by NABARD to branches would be determined according to agreed
criteria that are discussed below.
61.     Eligibility Criteria.  Beginning July 1, 1986, the amount of NABARD
refinance available to participating bank branches (except those in Special



-19-
Assistance States 1/) will be determined according to criteria tied to the
loan recovery performance of that branch in the previous year. Only branches
with recoveries of 75% or more of their annual demand will be eligible for
unlimited access to NABARD refinancing. Refinance to branches with
recoveries of between 60% and 74Z (increased to 65% to 74Z with effect from
January 1, 1988) will be limited to the highest amount lent in any of the
last five years; those branches with recoveries of between 36X and 59%
(increased to 41% to 64% wich effect from January 1, 1988) will be limited to
the amount actually recovered from the borrowers in the previous year, or the
average amount recovered in the past three years, whichever is greater.
Branches with recoveries of 35% or less (increased to 40% or less with effect
from January 1, 1988), will be entitled to no more than 75% of the amount
recovered in the previous year. Furthermore, unless such branch demonstrates
an improvement of at least 7 percentage points in its level of total
recoveries, such branch's entitlement will be further reduced (to 50% and 25:
of the amount recovered from borrowers, in the second and third years,
respectively). Unlike the calculations used in earlier Bank projects,
calculations of recoveries will be based solely on actual cash recoveries
from borrowers, and such recoveries would include those related to special
schemes such as IRDP. Recovery calculations would exclude recoveries on
short-term loans of CBs and any subsidies, interest remissions, or other
payments or measures by state governments which may artificially inflate
recovery performance statistics.
62.     Assistance to Weaker LDBsIPLDBs.  Application of the above criteria,
and the tougher definition of recoveries used, is expected to result in
several LDB branches and PLDBs falling in the lowest category (i.e., those
with recoveries less than 35Z-40%). NABARD has a critical role in assisting
these branches to analyze their overall financial status, recommend
corrective measures, and implement appropriate rehabilitation programs in
order to maintain the financial soundness of the LDBs/PLDBs and improve their
overall performance. As a first step in this exercise, NABARD has issued
guidelines under which branches are reviewing, case-by-case, their long
overdue loans to identify some of the reasons for overdues (e.g.,
insufficient grace periods allowed, repayment terms inconsistent with returns
on investment, or relief measures where these were evidently justified).
Corrective measures, essentially rescheduling of loans in accordance with
guidelines by NABARD, are being taken. To this end, NABARD would continue to
take steps to (i) assess the financial position of the weaker branches
(including potential bad debts, adequacy of provisions, reserves and equity);
and (ii) make appropriate recommendations for strengthening the financial
position of such branches. To the extent that additional staff are required
for this work, NABARD would staff its regional offices with institutional
development specialists and provide other temporary staf assistance to aid
in the recovery and rehabilitation of such branches.
1/ Existing (ARDC IV) criteria will continue to apply to branches in
Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura,
and Sikkim. NABARD's refinance to these States/Union Territories is not
expected to exceed 2% of the total NABARD refinancing during the project
period.



-20-
63.     IRDP Programs.  As noted earlier, the rapid growth of the IRDP
program has placed severe strains on the institutions involved in the
program, and the quality of the investments financed under the program needs
to be improved. NABARD would help to improve the operations of the program
by: (i) improving coordination among the various institutions operating
within the banking sector; (ii) maintaining closer control over the pLanning
and implementation of IRDP and other such programs at the district and block
levels; and (iii) increasing monitoring and evaluation of IRDP scheme loans.
To achieve these goals, NABARD would: (i} by June 30, 1986, establish and
thereafter maintain an IRDP task force, comprising representatives of
selected banks and chaired by NABARD, to review operational procedures,
particularly at the district level; (ii) develop, by June 30, 1986, an IRDP
Planning and Review Group in each regional NABARD office, such group to be
assigned, at all times, with suitable and qualified officers for purposes of
enabling it to adequately carry out IRDP operations at the district level;
(iii) set up, by June 30, 1986, a special cell at NABARD headquarters to
coordinate and monitor the work of these regional office groups; and
(iv) annually institute about 15 monitoring studies that would focus on IRDP
operations in selected districts.
64.     Rehabilitation Program for LDBs.  Under the earlier ARDC IV project,
rehabiLitation programs for an initial six and subsequent four LDBs were
initiated, partly executed, and monitored by a standing committee in NABARD.
These programs were somewhat narrow in their approach to improve LDB
performance and lacked performance-oriented targets. NABARD realized the
need for continuing guidance and control over institutional rehabilitation
and, in 1982, created an Institutional Development Department. So far, the
results of the rehabilitation efforts have had little impact on the
performance of the LDBs. The Credit Review would examine LDB operations but,
before its recommendations become available, ongoing LDB rehabilitation
efforts should be made more effective and be completed. Accordingly, NABARD
would: (i) by June 30, 1986, employ qualified institutional development
specialists; and (ii) by August 31, 1986, prepare a rehabilitation program
for each of the ten LDBs, and thereafter, implement such rehabilitation
programs taking into account the Bank's views, if any.
65.     The Credit Review.  The Credit Review wculd be executed under the
general direction of the RBI. The five separate, but interrelated studies
that constitute the Credit Review would be executed by local and/or foreign
consultants selected in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. GOI would
also establish, and thereafter maintain, a Senior Experts Group (SEG), which
would consist of seven credit experts whose qualifications, experience,
selection, and terms of appointment are satisfactory to the Bank, and who
would be empowered to coordinate and guide the execution of the five studies
and to assist the borrower in preparing an integrated final report. The
agreed terms of reference of the studies are summarized as follows:
(i) Study 1 - Agricultural Credit in General. The study would examine
the role and operations of the entire agricultural credit system and
assess, within the overall objectives of poverty alleviation and
agricultural development, how the role of agricultural credit should



-21-
evolve over time and which factors could impinge on the efficiency,
effectiveness, and instil:utional integrity of the credit system.
(ii) Study 2 - The Role and Effectiveness of Lending Institutions. The
study would review a sample of LDBs, CBs, RRBs, SCBs, DCCBs, and PACs
to analyze their effectiveness in their present roles--it would
examine their findncial structure, operating systems, staffing levels
and competence, and branch management policies--and recommend whether
and how the roles, structures, and functions of these institutions
should be modified to meet future needs.
(iii) Study 3 - The Role and Functions of the Apex-Level Institutions in
Agricultural Credit. The study would clarify and define the roles
and functions of the apex-level institutions within the agriculture
credit framework, their relationships with each other and their
relationship with their client lending institutions. The study would
formulate recommendations concerning NABARD's capital structure and
legal mandate and its relationships with other national and
State-level institutions involved in agriculture credit. NABARD's
role in improving the quality of lending by the participating banks
would also be examined.
(iv) Study 4 - Lending Costs and Margins. The study would assess whether
lending margins are appropriate in comparison with the costs of
lending (in view of staffing and other operational costs), and the
level of overdues. The study would review the bad debt levels at
participating banks and recommend appropriate revisions to ensure a
properly functioning credit intermediation system.
(v)  Study 5 - Organization and Management Study of NABARD.  The study
would develop a set of recommendations for strengthening NABARD's
operations and a timetable for implementing them. The study would
assess how NABARD's organizational structure should be adjusted to
reflect the recommendations of Studies 1 through 4 above, how its
operating procedures should be strengthened, its staffirg and
training policies and practices upgraded, its monitoring and
evaluation and branch inspection systems improved, and its
institutional development capabilities enhanced.
GOI has agreed to ergage internatioziLally-recruited consultants to lead
Studies 3 and 5. A Secretariat, suitably staffed to provide assistance in
the execution of the studies and final report, has now been established. The
SEC would prepare a final report of general conclusions and recommendations
for a program to rehabilitate the credit system.
66.     The Pilot Scheme.  The project would also finance the extension of an
ongoing pilot scheme for strengthening agricultural credit delivery systems
that was initiated in March 1984-with Bank advisory assistance but without
financing--in three districts to 17 new districts. The pilot project has
been designed to upgrade branch-level staffing--exploring alternative ways of
using staff to increase the volume and - especially - the quality of lending
by: (i) strengthening the delivery of credit services at the farmer level;
(ii) carefully training branch staff to focus on farmers' investment needs;



-22-
(iii) monitoring the success of the relationship between the farmer and the
branch; and (iv) focusing on the level of repayments. The pilot scheme would
also be reviewed to determine if the solutions developed to meet these
objectives can be replicated throughout the credit system and whether the
changes at the branch level, if made throughout the system, will have an
impact on seriously overdue accounts nationwide. NABARD would be responsible
for the review of the impact of the pilot scheme, and would prepare two
evaluations of the pilot scheme, to be completed by October 1, 1986 and
October 1, 1988.
67.     Training.  The small staff of NABARD's training division--which
consists of 9 professionals and 12 assistants is inadequate to perform its
extensive functions satisfactorily. Despite the lack of a training and
development program that identifies training needs and specifies objectives
more clearly, NABARD continues to undertake substantial training efforts,
both for its own staff and those of LDBs, RRBs and CBs. NABARD's long-term
training requirements would be reviewed under Credit Review study 5.
However, action is required to satisfy NABARD's immediate training needs for
the next three years. Accordingly, as under previous ARDC projects, the Bank
would continue to support NABARD's ongoing and incremental training expenses
with an allocation of US$6.5 million of the loan. NABARD has prepared a
preliminary training program for FY86-89, which includes progrims for branch
managers of about 10 LDBs, 15-20 RRBs, and 5 CBs that would train about 25%
of the managers of rural branches over an 18-month period on effective loan
recovery techniques, enhanced lending quality, and branch administration.
Implementation of this program would be monitored during supervision.
Reporting
68.     In order to highlight branch recovery performance, and to provide
data on the operational performance of the credit system, the present format
of quarterly reports to the Bank would be changed to incorporate the data
necessary to gauge the adequacy of branch performance. NABARD has developed
considerable expertise in ex-post evaluative methods. Lessons learned from
such exercise have now to be disseminated quickly to impact on the quality of
future lending. The NABARD Board has now adopted procedures to ensure this,
and NABARD plans to complete 50 ongoing studies and 40 new studies by
June 1987, along with about 100 district-oriented monitoring studies
annually.
Project Costs and Financing
69.     The total project cost, including a three-year time-slice (FY86/87 to
FY88/89), of NABARD's refinance program, is estimated at US$5,356 million.
The foreign exchange component (most of which is the indirect) is estimated
at US$507 million, or 9Z of total costs. Included in the total cost is about
US$1,570 million for minor irrigation and land development works,
US$1,619 million for IRDP investments, US$785 million for farm mechanization
investments, US$932 million for other nonirrigation, on-farm investments, and
US$35 million for training, pilot schemes, and the cost of the Credit Review.
The level of taxes and duties have not been calculated since the actual mix
of investments to he refinanced is not known. Experience with previous ARDC



-23-
projects suggest that taxes and duties might amount to less than 10 of total
costs.
70.     The proposed Bank financing of US$375 million (equivalent) would
cover about 72 of total project costs. The remaining 93% of project costs
would be financed by the ultimate borrowers (10Z), participating banks (18%),
GOI/NABARD (64.5X), and other sources of bilateral aid (0.5%). A Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, would be executed between COI and
NABARD under which US$340 million would be onlent to NABARD. Part of this
amount would be onlent over nine years and part over 15 years at not less
than 6.5% and 7.0% annual interest, respectively (it is assumed that NABARD
will continue to qualify for the standard 0.252 rebate for prompt payment
provided under the terms for onlending between GOI and NABARD). GOI would
bear the foreign exchange risks. The onlending terms governing loans from
NABARD to the participating banks and to ultimate borrowers are outlined in
the Loan and Project Summary. It should be noted, however, that the interest
rates to the ultimate borrowers are expected to remain at or above the
expected longer-term rate of inflation. The 10% rate to small farmers for
minor irrigation and land development investments could be marginally below
the long-term inflation rate under a number of plausible inflation rate
scenarios, and the rate may not provide adequate margins to the intermediary
bank branches. Study 4 would address this latter issue. Nevertheless, this
present rate reflects the Government's strong and appropriate push for
foodgrain self-sufficiency--at some small subsidy levels, if necessary.
Tranching of Loan - Disbursement
71.     Unlike previous ARDC peojects, in which disbursements were based on
a fixed percentage of the amount of loans to farmers made by participating
banks and refinanced by them, US$340 million of the proposed loan for
NABARD's refinancing activities would be disbursed in four tranches. Release
of the tranches would be conditional upon compliance with agreed conditions
and dates, as detailed in Annex IV.
72.     Of the remaining US$35 million, comprising US$25.0 million for the
pilot scheme, US$6.5 million for NABARD's training programs, and
US$3.5 million for the Credit Review, the funds would be disbursed against
actual expenses. Disbursements would be made for 95%-lOOZ of such
expenditures, net of duties and taxes. GOI/NABARD would continue its custom
of maintaining supporting documentation for its refinancing at a central
location and claiming withdrawals against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
All withdrawals on the basis of SOEs would be audited annually and supporting
documentation be made available to Bank staff for review on request during
project supervision missions. Each application by the participating bank
would be verified by NABARD's regional office or by NABARD headquarters, to
ensure that it conforms with the agreed lending terms and conditions and with
specific scheme-sanctioning conditions. DisDursement forecasts are based on
the performance of ARDC I-IV Credit projects, all four of which disbursed in
accordance with, or slightly ahead of, appraisal projections. The Bank-wide
disbursement profile for agricultural credit projects, which shows only 41%
disbursement in a three-year period and full disbursement after 6.5 years,
has not been typical of the preceding ARDC I-IV, nor is it appropriate in the
proposed project where disbursement tranches would be directly linked to



-24-
progress in the Credit Review and on the introduction of eligibility
criteria.
Procurement
73.     Procurement for schemes involving relatively small investments by
individual farmers would be based on the farmer's choice of local dealers
and contractors. Typical items would be pumpsets, tubewells, dugwells, dairy
cattle, bullock carts, small fishing boats, and farm mechanization equipment
such as tractors, power tillers, and sprayers. Normal commercial channels
provide an adequate choice of locally manufactured equipment and acceptable
servicing facilities, and both prices and quality are competitive with those
on world markets. Procurement under such schemes as the construction of
storage warehouses, market yards, and agro-processing facilities would be
based on local procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
International competitive bidding would not be practical given the relatively
small size of the investments involved and their dispersal throughout the
country and over time. Vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles and office equipment
for the pilot scheme would be purchased in small quantities by participating
banks spread in 20 districts. In many cases, the banks would make loans to
field officers to purchase the vehicles. As adequate maintenance and
availability of spares would be of paramount importance, locally-made
vehicles (and equipment) of types already used by banks would be purchased
through normal commercial channels. For similar reasons, NABARD's
requirements for vehicles and equipment for pilot schemes at 20 regional
officers and headquarters and for its training programs would also be
procured locally, according to existing procedures which are satisfactory to
the Bank.
Accounts and Audit
74.     Accounting and audit procedures would be as in earlier Bank projects.
NABARD's accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and NABARD would forward its audited accounts to the Bank within four
months after the end of the fiscal year. GOI would maintain separate records
and accounts for expenditures of the Credit Review and would provide such
accountL, duly audited, to the Bank promptly upon finalization of such audit.
Apart from audits of the onlending institutions carried out by independent,
qualified accountants, as required by RBI, NABARD also carries out periodic
voluntary inspections. Where NABARD makes major recommendations, which a
branch does not implement within one year, NABARD would discontinue
disbursements until compliance is observed.
Economic Benefits
75.     The project's primary measurable economic benefit would be increased
agricultural production for domestic consumption and export. At full
development, the annual value of incremental production (at 1983/84 farmgate
prices) will be about US$1,467 million. About five million farmers are
expected to benefit directly from the project; about 602 would be farmers
with incomes less than US$89 per year. The project is also expected to
create about 1 million man-years of construction employment and a similar
amount of permanent employment at full project development. At least as



-25-
important, though unquantifiable, is the expected institution-building
benefic-progress towards an efficient and dynamic credit intermediation
function in India's agricultural sector.
76.     An economic rate of return (ERR) for the total project has not been
calculated, since the mix of the many thousands of individual investment
projects cannot be determined in advance. ERRs have been calculated,
however, for a representative sample of small and large farm models on the
basis of experience gained with the ARDC I-IV projects. Analysis of minor
irrigation models indicate ERRs of up to 22% with somewhat lower ERRs being
indicated for investments in tubewells where these are established to augment
existing surface irrigation systems. For diversified investments, such as
farm mechanization, sheep farming, coffee plantations, and the like, the ERRs
vary from 15Z to 69%, and are not very sensitive to cost increases or a
reduction in benefits.
Project Risks
77.     The experience with ARDC projects suggests that there is little risk
that the production effects of the project might not be achieved. There is,
on the other hand, a risk that the project would not succeed in achieving
its institution-building objectives, particularly those relating to
improvements in the capacity of the system to recover all loans. The
greatest risk concerns the willingness and ability of GOI, NABARD and the
States to remain committed to these objectives until the benefits outweigh
the initially considerable political risks. However, the proposal for
linking the disbursement of the loan funds to progress on the Credit Review,
which has been agreed by all parties, is indicative of the strong longer-term
commitment to reforms. This commitment is expected to continue and would be
further enhanced by continued Bank involvement in the sector. Moreover, if
the pilot scheme shows the expected results, it may be foreseen that over
time the banks will develop increasing interest and capacity to equip their
branches to make more recoverable loans.
78.     The second risk concerns NABARD's ability to supervise lending
operations effectively and control improvement of the credit system. The
roles and authority of the apex institutions of the credit system are
governed, in part, by practical and political realities. NABARD has been
reluctant to enforce its legal mandate, opting instead for moral persuasion,
and thereby acknowledging the risk that heavy-handed enforcement of its
requirements might be harmful to its overall relations with the States. The
project would strengthen NABARD's position vis-a-vis the participating banks
and States and the Credit Review would pay particular attention to clarifying
NABARD's role and functions and its relations with participating banks.
79.     The third risk would be that the more strict eligibility criteria to
be introduced by NABARD for the weaker branches may not necessarily result in
better recoveries and/or improvement in the overall performance of the
lending institutions. To reduce this risk, the project would introduce
measures under which NABARD would assist weaker branches to assess their
overall financial position and to assist in rehabilitation of such branches.



-26-
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
80.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank. I recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
February 3, 1986



9~~~
ANNE=
TAwa6                                         Pagel of 6
10&           b"       U9ST (ratw      T IUS> 
UC2ST                  (c         sOM LTINAS) .1kr
AM  clumm  14.noLk                      maLZssxua:siT.            AS% s mottoF         ASIA & '-acinc
a (wininq. U)M
TOTAL                            3227.6      3227.6     3227.0
tUCttLtIt                        1765        1710.5     1611.4
Mi CAliSL (CM)2                       .. *                 260.0             276.3                    1011.1
CKiLOSUm Or CIL UQUALUT)          79.0       113.0      153.0             265.7                    566.6
PorUZAnTOs.MD-TRs (TqoSam)  U4669.o   547569.0   733221.0
nuRn  wUITnau ( OIP OtAL)          16.0       10.3        24.4              22.3                     35.9
POPULATION WOJCUCiSm
rorUinos is  us 2am OIILL                             990.4
STATlONARt PLSAXUCS (WILL)                            1700.0
roAuLIn MSiUUM                                           1.5
POULATIaN mmG
PER Sq. @1.                     132.3       164.6      223.0              173.3                   386.9
1  Ul. Rl. SRi. LAU             244.6       307.5      395.0             353.3                    1591.2
POPMuATIOU AE ST17U330 (X)
0-14 iRs                        40'.        42.7       39.5               36.3                    35.2
15-6 Yu                          54.4       50.1        56.5             539                       57.7
65 MD *AR                         4.6         3.0        3.9               4.3                      3.5
POPUTIO     c URCMH n CZ)
TOTAL                             IJ          2.3        2.2                2.0                     2.3
URAII                             2.5         3 3        3.9               4.1                      4.1
CRffD BI3Tl3  RATZE (MR To)        47.7        41.5       33.9              27.5                     30.1
CJOD DUTn  nAT (Fa 2OW)           23.9        17.9       12.5              10.2                      9.4
cGOSS REPEODUcTION RATE             2.9         2.6        2.3                1.7                     1.9
FAMILT PLANCNING
ACOr.S   AL (moos)               64.0      3782.0     6826.0 It
013CZi oP HaUIS Vll)              ..         11.7       32.0              49.4                     56.5
ISO OF MOMD PROD. PSI CAPITA
(199-71-100)                       93.0       102.0      113.0             116.6                    124.4
Pg CAPITA SPLY O
CALOUU (2 OP IlUQIIITS)          96.0        91.0       92.0             106.3                    115.7
P-OnS (GWRl        DAT)          56.0        50.0       50.0              60.1                     60.3
OP NUCK ANN" AD Prw             17.0        15.0       13.0 /d           14.4                     14.1
C1RUM (CAs 1-4) s1A  Mta           26.3        N9.7       11.0               7.3                      7.2
LIPM 3311CS. AT DiRTS (TIARs)      42.2        47.3       54.9              60.5                     60.6
WmeAN  M. STE (u THnO)            165.0       139.0       93.0              69.2                     64.9
asss To sAn uATut (01)
TOTAL                              .         17.0       41.0 /c           44.2                     46.0
URBWA                             ..         60.0       77.7r             77.2                     57.6
RUAL                                          6.0       31.0              34.6                     37.1
AUCRSS To XOEA DISPOSAL
sZ OF POPULAnON)
TOTAL                             ..         18.0        6.0 e             7.6                     50.1
033*5                             ..        15.0        27.0              2 3.                     52.9
RRAL                                          1.0        1.0 Yr            5.5                     44.7
POPUInos VW PNTStCIAN       *S50.0          4890.0      3W9O.0 /a         3318.0                   7751.7
,W. PER USURSII  P3350          10980.0 If  7420.0      5460.0 K          4690.7                   2464.8
POP. PEI 50PrL7L ID
TOTAL                          2130.0      1650.0     1290.04           1U39.2                    1112.1
URAMN                             ..          ..       370.0             299.1                    651.4
RURAL                             ..          ..     10410.0 J          6028.2                   259b.9
DISSiS          SPTAL BD            ..          ..         ..               52.3                     41.1
AVECC SIZE zJF HOISE
TOTAL                             5.2         5.6
URBAN                             5.2         5.6
312*L                             5.2         5.6
AVERA  NO. OF MRSOUS/ROO
TOTAL                             2.6         Z.8
URUIA                             2.6         2..
RURAL                             2.6         2.6
P- :O3TC or DO  E tLLiS SIwT  ELIOT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
:                  WII~RUAL                           ..         ..          .                  ..



ANNE 1
T AD Lb 3A                                   Page  2 of 6
IIDIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                               IUEREFCE CEUI PS (0XIGHTED AVAUOES) /!
MOST                    (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) b
RACENT             LoW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
6tso       19701! ESZMATzb          ASIA A PACIFEC       ASIA * PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENROLUEN RtATIOS
PRXILUYt  TOTAL                  61.0        73.0       79.0 Le           92.6                    100.7
MALE                   80.0       90.0        93.0 /c          105.5                    104.4
FUWRA                  40.0       56.0        64.0 We           79.3                    97.2
SECONDAXt: TOTAL                 20.0        26.0       30.0 J            31.3                     47.8
MALE                   30.0       36.0        39.0 ;C           40.5                    50.6
FEMALt                 10.0       15.0        20.0 Z4           21.9                    44.8
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECUOARY)          2.8         1.0        ..                3.2                     18.4
PUPIL-TlAOIER RATIO
PRIKARY                          46.0        41.0       56.0  C           38.0                     30.4
SECODAT                         16.0        21.0        ..               17.6                     22.2
cOOR
PASSENGE CARS/THOUSAND POP          0.6         1.1        1.4 /b            0.1                     10.1
RADIO REcXVERBiTUOSAID POP          6.9        21.5       55.8             129.6                    172.9
TV RECRIVERS/THOUSAND PP            0.0        0.0         2.9              19.8                     58.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GERAL
INTEREST") CIRCflAT1ON
PER THIIOUSAD POPMATICON          10.6        16.2       19.4 th           25.7                     65.3
CINIMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     3.2        6.2         6.6               6.0                      3.4
LAM
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TUS)        185951.0   219194.0   284251.0
FEMALu (PERCENT)                 30.7        32.5       31.4              33.2                     33.6
AGRICELTORE (PERCENT)            74.0        74.0       71.0 4s.          69.6                     52.2
INDUSTY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0       13.2 7c           15.B                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            62.8        *0.0       38.6              41.9                     38.9
MALE                             57.0        52.6       51.7              53.6                     50.8
FEMLE                            27.3        26.9       25.3              29.1                     26.8
ECONOMIC DEPNDENCY RATIO            1.1         1.1        1.1               1.0                      1.1
DCODIST3.I_TI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE LNCME
RECCEVED BY
HIGH  5X OF HOUSEOLDS            26.7        26.3 1      .
HIGhEST 20= OF HOUSCHOLDS        51.7        68.9 71     ..                ..                      48.0
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS          4.1        6.7 7i-    ..                  .                       6.4
LOWEST 40 OF HOUSEZHOLDS         13.6        17.27r      ..                ..                      15.5
POVEMr  QTA1
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPIrA)
URAM                              ..          ..       132.0 /b          133.9
RURAL                             *           *        1 .o 7ii          111.6                    151.9
ESTIMATED RXATIVE POVERY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..         ..                ..                     177.9
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..               61.7                    164.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTy INCOME LEL (2)
URBAN                             ..          ..        40.3 lb           43.8                     23.5
RMRAL                             ..          ..        50.7 7ir          51.7                     37.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
M E r 3 s
la  The group average for each ndicater are poplatioe-weghted aritbeatic weans. Cver ag of contrie.
a_ong the Indicators depends an availability of data and Is ot uniform.
/b  Unlear otherulse noted, 'Data for 1960" refer to Any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Dot& for 1970" botwan
1969 and 1971; and data for -Moot Recent Ee'.ate" between 1981 ad 1983.
/c  19P0; /d 1977; /a 1978; /f 1962; L/ 1976; th 1979; /I 196465.
JUNE. 1985



ANEX 1
DEVgeIo ot 6
DEMNITIONS OF slC INDICATM
Nonc Although teda aredmrwn frn suns gnrxllyjaded tphe* mastudtwate ndrelib, It sbould also owed tat they my not be Iteonaiony
comparable bece the lck d or standardied denon an cooe uWed by dIfleret couetn in coltng the da  The  da ar  oetheklm usWl to
deeribe orersof maitude. indicate ends ndehmterl ertain maor diffrles b   countri
he reference g oupe ae (I) thbe  mcountry group ofthe subjetcan e yaand (2) a conaty group wh somewhat bhg   ae igc   hn the ecountry
goupfthe subjectountry (capt for "Hih Income O Exponer groupwbhee Midd  ncome Nortb Afr ind Middle Ist-sche. bcm    stronger
soco-cultural dntie). In the refrence group dat the aveas ae population weited aditmtic moms loch indicetor and sbown only wen majority
of the couries in a group hs deta fort that indator SIe the covee ountries among the indicatos dp  endoe avabiey of data and Isno unifnon,
caution must be rcised in lating avcerae cfone indicator to another. Thes averages ae only uefWul in empaing the value of m Indicatorst a thin among
the cannty and refence grupt
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                         Crude  rthl Rawe (pw drand)-Number oflive births in the year
Toal--Total surface area comprising land area and inland waterS  r thousand of mid-ye  populat; 1960,1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crud Deh RAte (per theuamad)-Number or deaths in the year
Ag_s*ahw.lEstimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand or mid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.
pecrnantly for crops, pasturcs, market and kitchen gardens or to  GCh Repredet   Rat-Average number of daughters a woman
le fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiens
present agepecific fertility rates usuay five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World    ra4p Pledm-Acceptus, Aaua (sheums)-Annual num-
Bwc Atas (1981-83 basis); 1933 data.                           ber of accepton of birth-control devices under auspices ornational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family plnning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,    fhudy Phau'.-UsJwa (prat of Xsnkd mnsea)-The parcen-
petroleum, natural gas and hvdro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women orchild-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data                                                      of child-bearing age are generaly women aged 15-49. although for
some countres contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Total P9p8bd3 a, Mid-Yaw  hoautsm Jdr)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
UrbmPapafiWa   (pecem  f taal)Ratt of rbanto ttid  mrof FoodPhoduwsiPe SCdpitae(13 ff-7i a1N)I-ndex ofper
popuat ipondim (peton of total)-Ratio o urban to total         ' anulproduction of all food commodities  Produion
opulation; different dontios of urba   ara may  atar            cludes animal feed and seed for agriculture Food commodities
ability of data among countries 1960, 1970. and i983 data.     exidude prnmary commodities (eg. sugarane instead of sugar)
Popalte Prajeedom                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Populatin in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,  excluded); tbey comprise cereals, root cropS, pulss, oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits nuts sugrne and sugar beets, livestoc  and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products Aggrgate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year IPSO, these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            Per Cqia Supry of Caariu (prent efeo        mpirmats)-Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Avaitabl supplies wmprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  esUmated by FAO based on physiobgical needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and bhalth considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacenent level.                                     waste at household levd; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momenltw-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capita Supply of Aotuiu (grew per da)--Protein content of
continue beyond the time that repLacement-level fcrtility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as abovc. Requirements for aU countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum aflowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pube protein, of which IO grams
the year t, given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
mcnt level from year t onward, 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popufatio Deaiy                                                avcrage for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkni.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tars) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per C.,$a Proele Supply Jrm Ami   aned Prhle-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in gams per day: 1961-65
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
PopuAton Age Strcte (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-     Cil (dgs 1-4) Death Rate I  (  sperstahnd)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960, 1970. and 1933 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Populai  Growth Rate (pecmea-toal--Annual growth rates of      from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
Populatio Crowth Rate (pereentl--arhe-Annual growth rates      Life E rpectany at Birth (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNE 1
Page 4 of 6
at thetime  of of its birth w    to say the same troughout i lifr,  APsM.adw Rtio - prhuuar, and scmeesr-Totl studets en-
1960,1970 and 1913 datL                                        rolled in pdmay and secoodary lvels diided by numbers of
h_i,   MWIEII Rate (pfr   d)-Number of infants who die         taces In the    epondn leveds.
beforo  rachig Onem yr of ap per thousad lv births In a give
year; 196  1970 and 1983 da.                                   COIEUMFON
Accesr to So  Pn   (pwre  uf p      .6 u   u            i na A_e  Ca. (per  h             pp"an)-4%saenger cars co-
nd-Number of people (total,       and    l)      reon          pri  motor car  at  less than eg dt perso   excludes ambul-
accm to afe wa   mnp   Includ  tatd urfd    waers or           anes heses and miltay veides
untread,d bit unoat_ainated watr such r ta fom  prOtctd        Radi Recev, (pe dismdpepui..D-All tp  of
borebole sprin  and sanitay wb)eu prpe_ntages of their  p      for radio broadcasts to gr publc per   usnd of       to
tive population. In am urban ara a public fountain or tandpost  elude  unliensed recivan   counti  and in yer whe
loted not m     tha 200 mes frm a how  may be onsIered                on of radio et wa in effct;da  for oCnt yern May
a beg withn _aonable acc  of that house. In rual a             not be co.parable sinc moat countie abolihd licesig
resoabe access would imply tat the hotuwfe or members of thed             (.
housuihold do not han to sped a dsprpotiont pat of the day     TRoorimrsV (pi pdt     a       l    n dvefors unlc st
in fetd;ng tbe &W     ainedy'                                   e to glm publi per thoot pop;am    M    uicnxsed TV
in fetching the  Amily's  water needs.                         receivm     in co nwities and  in  year  when reitation  of  TV  sme    wa
Acces to    es.i Ddrpmd (psvent of pqpufIl)-tafaf, whm,        in effeoL
nd vnrl-Number of peopl: (total, urban, and rul) served by
aecreta dipoal as pertae of their respectivn popuation.            _     C          (th pi b          -     w   the a
Excre  dispoul may include the collection and disposl with or  ap claton of day general i t newpm  defined a a
without eeatment, of hununm citcrete, and wastewater by water-  Pmodxd publication devoted primurily to recording pnal nw.
bome        or the u     e of pit privi and 'imnir inittiI is considered to be IdW iy  iftapp    at kat four times a week
hPqdsl pe xr Php1ida-Npulation divided by number of prac-      Chevib Anai_  Attedw h    r p   XCapt  er Yesr-Based on the
tisingphysicins qualfed fromna medical school at univesity level.  nubr of tickes sod durig the year, incuding a      to
Popdaur n pe Nala  Pme i-Ropulation divided by number of       dsre-mn cems and mobCe unit.
practcig mae and female grduat  nuse, assit   nures.
praccal nurse and nursig auxiliaries.                          LABOR FORCE
Aipm lario. e Hwp~I N ed-wllt, wine,  dE        *Srm-PbpWldo   Toed Labor Foc (rho   i-Econormcilly active persona, in-
(totl, uban, and rural divided by their rpective nur of        cidimg armed forcs and unemployed but ecludiw  house s,
(totapuftm and uraD in vlidand by iareqoctive numbernd   of    students, etc., covering popuation of all ages Definitions in
hospital beds avalae i    l and private, gnea and secialind    various countries are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 dataL
hospitals and rehabiltatio  centers. Hospital are esabishments
pemanently sfd by at let one physician. Estabhments prov-      Fmal (#rcnw)-Fenm1 labor force as percentage of total labor
iding princpaly cutodial came a  not incuded. Rural hospitls,    fome.
howeveinclude healh and medmi center not permanently stfd      Ap;gn'' (jffcent)-Labor force in farming forestry, hunting
by a physicin (but by a medical asistnt, nure. midwife ec. )   and fishing as pentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-pat  acco_mmodaton and provide a limited range  dat.
of medical faci;itie                                          /adesry (perwq)-Labor force in mining. costuction, manu-
Admasdowin  per Heospia Bod-Total number of admissons to or    facrmBg and electricity, water and gas as percentag of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of bes         forc; 1960. 1970 and 1980 dataL
HOS-  d-- At  (prfceAt-agot4 Mk. nedMdeC-PaRti
HOUSING                                                        or activity raes are computed as totlL male, and fe    labor force
Avrg .WzS of HewehM  (pene per I  J_sue -raa , u               as pectages of total, mae and female popuation of aR ags
vnaual-A household consists of a group of individual who shae  resp .cly; 1960, 1970, and 1933 data. These are baed on lLOs
living quarters and their main mesh A boarder or lodger may or  partcipati   tes reflecting age-sex stucur ofthe populaio. and
may not be incuded in the household for ssical purposs         long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources
Aerg Nuu.ber of Pen  per Rom-oed, urbne_, nd rrl-              Eomo:  Dep_de7 Ratio-Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of perons per room in all urban, and rual       65 and over. to the worng ag populati  (do  aged 15-64).
occupied convntional dwlings, respectively. Dwelng exclde
non-permanent strutnes and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DTRIDUFION
Pereasqe of Dw~    wih Ekcraidry-wa, a ,% ned  ural-          Prced    of Toed Dposale Iome (both cis        nd kid)-
Conventional dwelligs with electicity in hving quarters as peren-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwelings respectively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGEr GROUPS
Adiered EAroimet Ratios                                        The following esimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pnury sdhol - owl. mal and fw.l-Gros total. ma                 levels. and should be interpreted with considerable cauton.
female enrollment of al ages at the primary level as percentages of  sinaued Abslae Poery Incme Leve (    per cspmta)-rba_
rctive pnmary school-age populains While many countr           ad rual-Absolute poverty income lcvd is that income kvel
consider prinary school age to be 6-11 yeas, oths do not. The  below which a minimal nutritonaly adequate dit plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and dumtion of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected i the atios givn For some countries with unisal  EsehadRektive Povrty icome Level (U    per capira)-aobn
education, gross enrolment may exeed 100 percent since some    nd rural-Rural rdative povery income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's stmdard primary-school  average per captta ,ersonal ncome of the country. Urban klvd is
age.                                                           derived from the mral level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secandwy sdhool - tozal. nk and feanse-Computed as above;      Eving in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  Ebuated Popuaom Below Absolue Pober   cme Lewd (pgr-
mary isuuon; providcs general vocationaL or teacher traimng    cen} _-uh     d *rral- Percent of population (urban and rurl
instrucions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are absolte poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocadl E      iobnei (pfer   of secordry)-Vocational insit-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude tchical industxiL or other prgrms which operate          Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as deartments of secondary insttutions                                June 1985



ANN=X I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENI DATA
GNP FER CAPITA IN 1983i4USS260a/
CROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1983/84 bt                                           ANNUAL RArf OF GROWTH (S. Constant Prices) c/
55156-59/60  60/61-64/63  65/66-69/70  70!71-74175  75/76-79/80  80/81-82/83
US5 Dln.     2
CDP at Market Prices              189.81      100.0                   3.7          3.6           3.7         2.9          4.1          5.1
Graes Domestic Investment          45.94       24.0
Cross National Saving              43.17      22.7
Current Account Balance            -2.17      -1.5
OUTPUT, LAOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value added (at factor cost)       Labor Force i/    %.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.                2                             1i.  2  1S1  2 of National Averate
Agriculture                        52.5                   35.9        172.7     70.6    304          51
Industry                           34.5                   23.6         31.6     12.9   1092        183
Services                           59.2                   40.5         40.3     16.5   1469         246
Total/Average                     146.2                  100.0        244.6   100.0    598          100
GOvERNENT FINANCE
General Covernment el                               Central Gav.nrumet
Rs. Bln.            z of GOP                   Re. Dir..           1 of CDP
1983/84      1983/86   1979/80-1983/14         1983/84      1983/84     1979/80-1983/84
Current Receipts                  378.54          19.3           19.5             201.67         10.3            10.3
Current Ecpenditures              397.12          20.3           19.4             225.$2         11.5            10.9
Current Surplus/Deficit           -18.58          -1.0            0.1             -23.75         -1.2           -0.6
Capical Expenditures f/           149.66           7.7            8.0             114.12          5.8             5.8
E--ternal Assistance (net) d/      19.16           1.0            1.1
HONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES          1970/71  1975/76  1978/79  1979/U  1980/81  1981/82  1982i83  1983/84  Januarv 1984  January 1985
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of parlod)
Honey and Quasi Money             109.8      224.8    401.1    472.3   557.7   (27.5    728.7   860.9          835.1         993.9
Bank Credit to Government (net)    54.6     106.3    159.3   200.1   257.2    306.3    353.8   407.7          403.1          483.9
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector   64.6      156.2    255.3    310.1   366.4   434.6    517.1   612.7          575.5          685.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                        April-Jan 83/84    April-Jan 84/85
Honey and Quasi Money as a 2
of GDP                           27.3       30.3     41.1     44.1     43.7     42.5     44.5    44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                 100.0     173.0    185.8    217.6    257.3   281.4   288.6   315.2          313.6             336.7
Annusl Percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index               7.7      -1.1       -       17.1    18.2       9.4      2.f6      9.2       9g2               7.4
Bank Credit to Government (net)    15.0      22.7      16.0     25.6     28.5    19.1      15.1     15.3       16.9 ri'          23.2 hi'
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   19.4      22.7      20.3     21.5    18.2      18.6     17.7    18.7        13.8 FL/          15.6 hi/
of  The per capita CNr estimate is at market prices. using World Bank Atlas methodology. base period 1981-83.
All othec conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevaillng during che period covered.
bk  quick Estimtes. Central Statistical Organization.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series. including one observation before first year and one observation after
last year of listed period.
d/  Wlorld Dank estimates of net disbursement of concessional aid and ID.
/ Tranfers between Centre and Staces have been netted out.
fi All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
/  Percentage change from end-Mrch 1983 to end-.Jan.84.
h   Percentage change from end-March 1984 to end-Jan.85.
ii  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from 1981 Census.  Excludes dare for Assam.



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ALANCE 0  PAYMENTS                   1981/82    1932183                  1954/85       MERCHUADISE EXPORTS (AVCUEA  1980/81-19H3/84)
CUSS Win.)                                                                                                              US* Kl1n. I
Exports of Goads gf                     8.519       5.290       8.355       8.724       Engineering Good.                1115      13
[quarts of Goods jf                   -15.3D1    -14.290      -14.040     -14,501       Tea                               469       6
Trade Balance                         - 6,782    - 6,000      - 5.685     - 5.777      CGm                               1009      12
NIS (net)                               1.002         935         948       1.098       Clothing                          688       8
Leather and Leather Products     343       4
Resource Balance                      - 5,780    - 5.065      - 4.737     - 4,678       Jute Manufactures                 269       3
Iron Ore                         400       5
Interest Incoms (net) k/                  350    -   302      -   664     -   785       Cotton Textiles                   316       4
Net Transfers  l                        2.317       2.534       2,880       2.930       Sugar                             104       1
Others                          3704      44
Balance ou Current Account            - 3,113    - 2,863      - 2.521     - 2,533
Direct lnvestmnt                           10          65          62          61
rotal                           8417     100
Officol Loans 6 Grants (net)            1,681       1.901       1.961       1.944
Gross Disbursements                     2.269       2.513       2.578       2.585       UTERNAL DEBrT MARCH 31. 1984
Aortization                               588         612         617         641
US$ billion
Private Borrowing (net)                   338         366         528         844
Outstanding and Disbursed                 21.5
Non-Resident Deposits                     260         578         903         600      lUndisbursed                                10.4
Trnseaction with DWI (net)                690       1.980       1.295          70       OutstandinR including Undisbursed          31.9
All other Items o/                    - 2.264    - 1.522      - 1.347       - 683
Increas  in Reserves (-)                2.398    -   504      -   882       - 303       DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983/l84 1/ nl      13.6 per cent
Cross Reserves (end year) p/            4.461      4.965        5.847       6,150
NHt Reserves (end year) !e/             3,497       2.089       1.697       2,250
IBRD/IDA LENDING, MARCH 31, 1985 il
Fuel and Related Mate-rils1
US $ mllLon
Ioports (Petroleum) g/                  5.553      4,614        2.983       3.026                                             IBRO      IDA
of which: Crude                       3.921       3,139       2.183       1.015
Products                    1.632      1,475          go        2,010       Oustanding and Disbursed              2.158    8.902
Undisbursed                          4,326    3,748
Outstanding including Undisbursed    6.484   12.650
RATE OF EXHNGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971        USSl.00 - Rs 7.50
Rs 1. W - USSO.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:  USS1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - USS0.137376
After end-June 1972                   Floating Bate
Spot Rate end-March 1984              US$1.00 - Rs 10.7181
Rs 1.00 - USSO.0933
Spot Rete end-Mrch 1985               USS1.00 - Re 12.3457
Rs 1.00 - USS0.010
Etimated
Figures given cover all investcnt income (net).  Major pyments are interest on foreign loens and charges paid to DI,
and m0jor receipts Is ineerast earned on foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant "sistance which is included vithin officlal loans
and grants, and non-resident deposits which are shomn separatelv.
./ Exclude net use of IMP credit.
Aj Amortiration ad interest paymnts on foreign loas as a percentage of total current receipts.
o/ Includea exchange rate adjustmnts to the valuation of reserves and financing of imbalances in rupee trade.
jf gxcludint gold.
Net of pertoleum exports



Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF DANK %OMUP OPERATIgON IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BARK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1985)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      ADnroval       Purvose                                     IDA 11     Undisbursed 2/
55 Loans/                                            2,528.9          -             -
102 Credits fully disbursed                               -       5,938.9           -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                       -          29.2          0.05
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0         -            9.04
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -          30.0          7.77
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension 6 Research               -          12.0           5.28
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0         -            1.58
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage              -         107.0         22.14
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -           8.0           3.83
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -         117.6         20.71
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                  -          200.0         12.70
806-IN    1978     Jammu-Kasbmir Horticulture           -           14.0          8.01
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -          16.0          0.68
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII              120.0         -            7.23
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -         150.0         14.25
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -         196.0        102.39
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
6 Maintenance                      -         190.0           5.88
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage       -           38.0          3.24
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research       -           27.0          9.88
1648-IN    1979     Raiagundam Thermal Power             50.0         -           41.09
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                    -          129.0         15.34
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II       -          175.0          3.25
954-IN    1980     Mabarashtra Irrigation II            -          210.0         11.83
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry           -           37.0          0.16
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                     -           20.0         12.79
981-IN    1980     Population II                        -           46.0         19.59
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                 -           32.0         14.86
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                -          175.0         71.99
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                            -           22.0         13.60
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                 -          300.0        112.45
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension        -           10.0          5.76
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport             -           56.0         14.74



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Apiroval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                             54.0          21.40
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -             80.0          38.84
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    99.0          -             3.42
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0          68.79
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -            25.00
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0          -           17.09
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                     -           35.0           7.90
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                     -           83.0          35.75
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0          18.64
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0          70.15
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII               -          314.0         68.36
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0          31.84
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          399.1          60.93
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0           7.57
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0          13.37
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0          24.26
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -         125.0          61.24
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0         242.57
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0         139.15
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0          -             2.40
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0          18.86
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0          12.75
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                           150.0          -            21.60
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0          -          256.89
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0          4.05
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization          200.0          -            71.57
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III           304.5          -          215.94
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.C         25.10
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -            20.00
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0          59.07
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Raryana Social Forestry             -           33.0         22.30
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Przdesh
Irrigation II                       -          31.0          16.30
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0        101.90
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -          114.48
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -         200.0         168.63
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -          197.04
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development       139.3          -          133.71
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0          96.85
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0         84.51



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Aunroval        Purpose                        Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed ]J
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Rydro Power           -         170.0         149.50
2278-rN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4         -           156.01
1369-TN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III        -         147.0         134.50
2283-rN    1983     Central Power Transmission          250.7         -           250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2         -            45.31
1383-rN    1983     Naharashtra Water Utilization         -          32.0          23.27
2308-IN    1983     Naharashtra Water Utilization        22.7         -            22.64
2329-IN    1983     Hadhya Prsdesh Urban                 24.1         -            23.47
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                  -         105.0          74.52
1424-TN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -          31.0          31.15
1426-IN    1984     Population III                        -          70.0          67.48
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry             -          27.0          22.55
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                    250.0         -           245.88
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                      151.0         -           150.62
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum              242.5         -           239.53
2415-IN    1984     Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer           203.6         -           195.42
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply               -          36.5          36.03
5F-12-IN   1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply               -          36.5          37.40
1468-IN    1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -          17.5          12.00
SF-16-IN   1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -          17.5          17.59
1483-rN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation                -         125.0         124.48
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation             -         172.0         146.70
2416-IN    1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric       1-57.4         -           157.01
SF-20-IN   1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric          -         129.8         129.25
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification            280.7         -           280.00
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Power            300.8         -           300.05
2452-IN    1984     Fourth Trombay Thermal Power        135.4         -           135.06
1502-IN    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corporation III        -         220.0         214.21
1514-IN    1985     Kerala Social Forestry                -          31.8          31.65
1523-IN    1985     National Agric. Extension I           -          39.1          40.89
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development              -         138.0         145.88
2497-IN    1985     Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power*  200.0           -          200.00
1552-IN    1985     Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power*    -           100.0         100.00
1553-IN    1985     Narmada (Gujarat) Canal*              -         150.0         150.00
1569-IN    1985     Second National Agricultural Ext.*  -            49.0          49.00
1611-IN    1985     National Social Forestry*             -         165.0         165.00
1613-IN    1985     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*         -          13.2          13.20
2498-IN    1985     Jharia Coking Coal                  248.0         -          248.00
2505-IN    1985     Maharashtra Petrochemical           300.0         -          300.00
2534-IN    1985     Second National Highway*            200.0         -          200.00
2544-IN    1985     Chandrapur Thermal Power*           300.0         -          300.00
2555-IN    1985     Rihand Power Transmission*          250.0         -           250.00
2582-IN    1985     Kerala Power*                       176.0         -           176.00
1619-IN    1986     West Bengal Minor Irrigation*         -          99.0          99.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
USS million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Ainroval       Purpose                         Bank        IDA 1/     Undisbursed |
1621-IN    1986     Maharashtra Composite Irrigation*   -           160.0        160.00
1622-IN    1986     Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation* -            41.0         41.00
1623-IN    1986     West Bengal Population*              -           51.0         51.00
Total                                   8,487.0    13,752.7
of vhich has been repaid              1,324.5       219.7
Total now outstanding                   7,162.5    13,533.0
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 31       7,162.5    13,533.0
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         3,887.15    3,473.30
1, IDA Crcdit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequeutly presented to the Board.
21 Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1985.
3j Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
B. STATNEWT OF IFC INVE9T3ENTS
(As of September 30, 1985)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
'ear                    Comvanv                      Loan     Ecuity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -       1.5
1959            Rirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8        -       0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4        -       1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2        -       0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Nahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3     13.1
1964            Laksbai Machine Works Ltd.            1.0       0.3      1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1       0.1      1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6       2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8     18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -       6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                          4.0       1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.      7.5       1.2       8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9        -      15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0         -      38.0
1981            Nabindra, Nahindra Limited           15.0        -      15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3      3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3        -       2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited              1.5       0.2      1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.0        -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.           18.8        -       18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.           15.7         -      15.7
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.1        -       8.1
1984-86         The Gvalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.     13.5        -       13.5
1985            Bihar Sponge                         10.4       0.8     11.2
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                     22.1         -      22.1
1985            Modi Cement                          12.5        -      12.5
1985            India Lease Development Ltd.          5.0       0.4      5.4
1986            Larsev and Toubro Ltd.               17.2       _       17.2
TOTAL GROSS CONKITNENTS       287.9      13.3    301.2
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales          162.0       6.3    168.3
Nov Held                   125.9       7.0    132.9
_v         _
Undisbursed                 77.0       1.2      78.2
mm           _       _mi



ANNEX III
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project
18 months
(b) The agencies that have prepared the project
NABARD and GOI
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank Group and date of the
first mission to consider the project
May 1983 and June 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 28, 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
November 19, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
July 1, 1986-
Section II:   Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(1) GOI would establish a Senior Expert Group
consisting of seven ack-owledged experts in
Banking and agricultural credit operations to
coordinate and supervise the implementation of
the five Studies comprising the Agricultural
Credit Review (para 65).
(2) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
GOI and NABARD would be an additional condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para 70).
(3)  Disbursements of Bank Group funds in tranches
would be dependent on GOI's achievement of a
number of conditions, as noted in Annex IV
and in paras 61 and 71.



ANMEX IV
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Conditionality for Disbursement Tranches
Amount
Date           (US $ million)   Disbursement Conditions
Tranche 1    Loan                100           (i)  Introduction by COI of eligibility
Effectiveness                         criteria as specified in pars 61.
(ii) Contracts signed by 4 of the 7
Senior Expert Group members.
(iii) Receipt of statement from NABARD
certifying that the US$100 million
tranche has been utilized to
finance the project.
Tranche 2    12 months            80           (i)  Contracts signed for-remaining 3
after disbusement                     of the Senior Expert Croup members.
of Tranche 1
(ii) Receipt of draft reports of two of
the studies comprising the Agri-
cultural Credit Review.
(iii) Receipt of statement from NABARD
-           certifying that the US$80 million
tranche has been utilized to finance
the project.
Tranche 3    24 months            80           Ci)  Receipt of draft reports of remaining
after disbursement                    three studies.
of Tranche 1
(ii) Receipt of statement from NABARD
certifying that the US$80 million
tranche has been utilized to finance
the project.
Tranche 4    36 months            80          (i)  Presentation to Bank Croup of completed
after disbursement                    studies of Agricultural Credit Review
of Tranche 1                          and recomendations of Senior
Expert Croup.
(ii) Receipt of statement from NABARD
certifying that the US$80 million
tranche has been utilized to finance
the project.






