Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10752
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2653-IN)
JUNE 12, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
India Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency: Rupee (Rp)
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal Year (1985)                  US$1.0 = Rs. 12.00
Intervening Years (1986-87 - 1989-90)  US$1.0 = Rs. 12.79 - 16.66
Completion Year (1990-91)              US$1.0 = Rs. 18.58
March 5, 1992                          US$1.0 = Rs. 29.0
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACRC               Agricultural Credit Review Committee
ARDC               Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
BDO                Block Development Officer
BIRD               Bankers Institute of Rural Development
FO                 Field Officer
GOI                Government of India
IRDP               Integrated Rural Development Programme
ISB                Industry, Services and Business
ISEC               Institute for Social and Economic Change
LDB                Land Development Bank
vfM                Monthly Training Meet
NABARD             National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
OED                Operations Evaluation Departnent
PACS               Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society
PCR                Project Completion Report
PPAR               Project Performance Audit Report
RBI                Reserve Bank of India
RRB                Regional Rural Bank
SAA                Service Area Approach
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SEG                Senior Experts Group
T&V                Training and Visit Extension System
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Directo.Ceneral
Operatons Evalustion
June 12, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on INDIA
NABARD Credit Project (Loan 2653-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on India: NABARD Credit Project (Loan
2653-IN)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment                                         2
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomrance
Iof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLI1MON REPORT
INDIA
NABAkRD CREDIT PROJECT
.Loan 2653-INl
Table of contents
Page No.
Preface  ......................... ..............................                  i
Evaluation Summary.                                                                i
PART L PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.                                     1
Project Identity .1
Background .1
Project Fomulation:
Genesis, Objectives and Description .
Agricultural Credit Review.                                              4
The Pilot Scheme.                                                        8
NABARD-Sponsored Training .13
Rural Credit Refinancing .13
Eligibility Criteria:
The Principal Implementation Issue .16
IRDP  Lending   .............................................           18
Project Ratings .19
Disbursement .19
Benefits .19
Institutional Performance .20
Compliance with Legal Covenants .21
Overail Findings and Lessons Learned .21
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECIVE .22
PART IIL STATISTICAL TABLES .45
1.   Project with External Aid:
Position of Completed/Closed Projects .46
2.   Project Time Table ................          .                     48
3. Project Cost and Financing .49
4. Interest Rates .50
5.   Training Component: Fmancial Progress .52
6.   Financial Progress by Purpose-Wise Lending .53
7.   Purpose-Wise Financial Outlay by NABARD .54
8.   State-Wise Ground Level Investment Cost Supported
with Refinance from National Bank .55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
9.       Disbursement by Component  .............................                                                        56
10.      Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements  ......................                                                    57
11.    Disbursement Profile - Yearwise  ...........................                                                      58
12.      Project Benefits   ............                        ...........................                              59
13.  Financial and Economic Rate of Returns:
SAR  Estimates and Actual  ............................                                                   60
14.      Mission  Data   ..............                         ...........................                              63
15.   Staff Inputs .                 ..........................................                                          64
16.      Status of Covenants   ....................................                                                      65
Chart 1 -  Estimated  and Actual Disbursement .....................                                                      70



-i1-
PROJTECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2653-IN)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the NABARD Credit Project for
which Loan 2653-IN of US$375 million was approved on February 25, 1986. The Loan closed
on June 30, 1991, 1.5 years behind schedule; however by March 8, 1991 the Loan was fully
disbursed.
This PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the India
Doepartment, South Aria Regional Office (Preface, 9valuation Summary, Parts I and III) based on a
preliminary draft produced by that division's New Delhi-based unit. NABARD piepared Part II
and provided comments on an earlier draft of Parts I and III.
Preparation of this report was b-gun during the Bank's final supervision of the
project in 1991, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, legal documents,
supervision reports, coffespondence between the Bank and the Borrower, project progress reports,
discussions with representatives of NABARD, and internal Bank memoranda and reports.



-'i-i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NABARW) CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2653-IN)
Evaluatiop Summarv
Objectivel
1.          In a departure from earlier state-based and national agricultural credit projects
supported by the Bank in India, the project's main objective was to strengthen the rural financial
system and improve the quality of credit delivery, and its secondary objective was to increase
agricultural production, rural income and employment with emphasis on small farners.
Imnlementation Exgerience and Results
2.          The project, estimated to cost US$5.36 billion and supported by a Bank loan of
US$375 million, made a promising start with implementation of an ambitious, comprehensive
study of the agicultural credit system (ACRC study) with a view of establishing a firm policy and
informationral basis for future reforms. Both domestic and international expertise contributed to the
effort, in the end producing a technically solid blueprint for beginning the overhaul of the rural
credit system. The utility of the study has been diminished by GOI's reluctance to embrace and
implement the recommendations. During project execution, study activities acted as important
triggers for release of loan tranches funding NABARD's refinancing program. The project also
supported a pilot scheme to improve credit delivery and recoveries by intensifying and fortifying
the managerial input at the bank branch level. Modelled on the T&V system for agricultural
extension, the scheme was carried out ultimately in only 15 out of the proposed 20 districts. While
the scheme resulted in generally better borrower-banker interfac.-, it failed to yield significantly
better rates of deposits, credit outflows or recoveries than in control d.stricts outside the scheme.
This result was due to the scheme's flaw of focussing only on one input--management; important
factors such as pervasive political interference, a counter-productive global loan waiver s.cheme,
weather, low interest rates and administrative reorganizations had more impact on banking
fundamentals. Nevertheless, relatively cost-free aspects of the scheme such as improved
administrative procedures were accepted and are being replicated from the project; costly aspects--
e.g., greater manpower--proved to be unacceptable to the banks without project, or eventually
public, financial support. The project also supported a training progmm sponsored by NABARD
which was successful and innovative, but its effectiveness was restricted by a continuing general
policy environment hostile to responsible banking.
3.          The largest component was NABARD's subloan refinancing activities over the
FY1986-87 to 1988-89 period. The project was expected to support about Rs. 63.8 billion in
investments. Actual investments made and financed with Bank funds, chiefly in irnigation, farm
mechanization and livestock development, fell 11% below appraisal estimates mainly uu_ to
unrealistic targets and reduced borrowings due to natural calamities. Non-schematic lending
(footnotes 21-22), however, proved 120% higher than appraisal estimates resulting in global
project targets being met. IRDP lending continued to represent a major share of NABARD
refinancing--18%--over the three year period. The states of Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and
Andhra Pradesh accounted for 36% of total investments associated with project refinancing.
4.          To address the chronically poor financial health of bank branches the project
fostered a more robust system of eligibility criteria geared to limit the access of less viable banks to



-Iv-
NABARD refinancing and to pinpoint weaker lending institutions in need of
rehabilitation/merger/closure. The Bank also viewed these stronger controls as a mechalism to
limit the growth of NABARD's overall refinancing in lieu of specific curbs on lending targets. The
project's eligibility criteria were well thought out with a view of plugging loopholes observed in
criteria employed under previous projects. While agreed criteria were enacted as a condition of
loan effectiveness, these d-d little to curti1 global NABARD refinancing. Also, disagreements
arose between the Bank and NABARD) rtout elements in critemia calculation. Likewise, and
importantly, severe drought experienced during project execution prompted the Borrower to
request relaxation of eligibility criteria and their timebound program of strengthening.
Identification of weak (cooperative) banks in need of remedial attention through criteria tests
proved moot since NABARD as a national institution was unable to take action for cooperative
banks without state collaboration, which in the main was not forthcoming. Under the project,
however, NABARD did implement a number of noteworthy measures to enhance the managemn-t
of the IRDP lending portfoio, including a NABARD task force, district review committees and
procedural adjustments. These positive steps, however, did not detract from the massive and
unwieldy size of the IRDP portfolio and the continuing chronic nature of overdues.
Sustainabtili
5.          The subloan refinancing component of the project, as in previous ones, was
successfully carried out and yielded healthy increments to productive investments, income and
employment. However, the principal thrust of the project--institutional change--was only
accomplishled at the margin. The successes in this regard (e.g., the training component,
improvements in IRDP portfolio management, selected aspects of the pilot scheme, and, most
importanly, the study of the agricultural credit system) have been overwhelmed and countervailed
by a policy environment hostile to an efficient and sustainable agricultural credit system.
Nevertheless, these project successes are useful bases and precedents for when G91 decides to
take the needed but difficult actions to reform the rural credit system within the context of global
financial sector adjustments, which the Bank is attempting to foster in its dialogue with GOI.
Based on the framework provided by the Narasimham Committee, which submitted to GOI in end-
November, 1991, its findings and recommendations on needed financial sector adjustments, the
thrust of the reforms advocated by the Bank would: (a) take into consideration the ACRC
recommendations; (b) re-define NABARD's role; (c) address the issues of bad debts and needed
recapitalization of banks; (d) promote greater autonomy for banks from political interference; (e)
encourage modem internal management systems; and (f) upgrade prudential regulation and
supervision.
Finding, and Lessons Learned
6.          The project proved unsuccessful in contributing to a signifi_ant improvement in the
rural credit system of India. In certain respects, the system is worse off today than at the time of
appraisal due to factors exogenous to the project. Although it was hoped that the studies financed
urder the project would lead to major policy reforms, and thus provide the main ex-post
justificaton for the project and set the stage for further Bank assistance in this vital area, the socio-
political climate of India has not encouraged such fundamental adjustments. GOI has not adopted
reforms recommended in the project's credit review, agricultural interest rates were reduced in real
terms during implementation, and the rural loan writeoff scheme enacted in 1990 was a major
retrogrde measure. Therefore, criticisms of the project's predecessor yet applies: By making
large external resources available in the short-run to the Indian rural credit system without-seeking
remedy through loan condiidonality for the serious problems existing, the Bank failed to make a
long-term develonmena1 contribution. In the future, the Bank should insist on comprehensive,
concrete reforms and to complement these, it should encourage a strengthening of village-level
institutions for sounder grassroots management of financial resources.



PROJECT COMPLETION RIJPflRI
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2653-IN)
pART I - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
jPrg-i_etdentity
Name:              Nabard Credit Project
Loan Number:       2653-IN
RVP Unit:          South Asia Region
Country:           India
Sector:            Agriculture
Subsector:         Credit
1.01        Agriculture. Agriculture is the domipanL sector of the Indian economy; it
contributes about one-third of the country's GDP, engages about .wo-thirds of the labor force and
accounts for about one-fifth of merchandise exports. The introduction of high-yielding varieties
for major foodgrains, expanded use of fertilizer and extensive investment in irrigation have made
India largely food self-sufficient. This has been achieved despite considerable discrimination in the
trade ar1 price regimes against agriculture. Nevertheless, agricultural GDP growth--2.6% p.a.
since 1965--has been modest compared to a population growth rate of 2.1%. Despite major
technological breakthroughs, the all-India agricultural growth rate has not accelerated in the past
two decades and remains concentrated in a few major crops (mainly rice, wheat, sugarcane and
rapeseed/mustard).
1.02        The Rural Credit System. In addition to direct public investment in irrigation
facilities and other productive infrastructure, the Government of India (GOI) has encouraged
private investment in the sector. Since the 1960s, these efforts have increasingly centered on the
expansion of the institutional credit system. Two objectives have underpinned GOI actions in this
regard: First, institutional credit is viewed as an important tool to secure food self-sufficiency
enabling the adoption of new agricultural techniquesfinputs and encouraging a shift to inigated
cropping. Second, institutional credit is considered a primary means to eradicate rural poverty by
freeing small cultivators from the grip of middlemen and moneylenders and providing them the
assets needed to boost productiv;ty, income and family well-being. In 1989-90, institutional credit
for agriculture totalled Rs. 103.0 billion (US$6.2 billion), 62% of which was short-term lending.
Over the 1977-1990 period, short-term lending grew at an average of 13.7% p.a., in contrast to
15.6% for term lending, mainly for tractor purchase, tubewell construction and livestock.
1.03        The Indian credit system comprises two main streams: (a) the commercial banking
system (nationalized in 1969), including the commercial banks and the regional rural banks, which
provide short-term and investment credit; and (b) the cooperative credit system, which has separate
short-term and long-term institutions. An important feature of rural credit since 1978-79 has been
the credit component of the Integrated Rural Development Programme (IRDP), an amalgamation of
GOI's rural poverty alleviation initiatives. At the apex of the rural credit system is the National
Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), which replaced the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) in 1982. NABARD, a financially and legally
autonomous public institution, is responsible for the timely flow of capital through the refinan-e of
agricultural/rural loans made by retail banks servicing the rural sector. The Bank is currently in
discussion with GOI over the country's financial sector, which as regards agriculture centers
chiefly on overall bank viabilities, viz. poor subloan recoveries, high transaction costs and
inadequate, interest spreads (para 1.53).



-2 -
1.04        Earlier Bank-Financed  Credit ProQjct.&   The Bank has lent for
agricultural/rural credit in India since 1969. During the first five years of this involvement, it
financed ten state-based agricultural credit projects covering the country's major farming regions.
In 1975 the Bank embarked on a series of four nationwide projects, using ARDC and then
NABARD as the apex agency. These four cou..tywide projects received assistance from the Bank
totalling US$875 million. These were followed in 1986 by the NABARD Credit Preject
(NABARD I) with an associated Bank loan of US$375 million. E&ch nationwide project
represented a time slice of about two years of ARDC's, and then NABARD's, refinancing
program. In addition to credit-specific projects, ARDC/NABARD has taken an active part in the
formulation and implementation of another 21 Bank projects providing financlal support for
investments in selected agricultural subsectors (Table 1).
1.05        OED audit reports of the state-specific and the first four countrywide projects
indicate that onlending targets were met or exceeded, especially for minor irrigation. Problems
cited in these reports included worsening recoveries, inadeqv.ate lending margins, financial non-
viability of smaller bank branches, substandard ARDC/NABARD review and supervision, and
shortage of competent staff.
1.06        Results of ARDC IV. The last PPAR, dated June 1989, was particularly critical
in its assessment of ARDC IV. Noting the lack of progress in resolving chronic institutional
difficulties, the report concluded that the general impact of the project on agricultural credit
institutions and the credit system in general was largely negative. By making large external
resources available in the short-run to the system, without ensuring rectification of serious
problems, the report stressed that the Bank failed to contribute to the long-term development of the
credit system. It also maintained that it was doubtful whether the attainment of Bank lending
targets and supply of needed foreign exchange justified continuing support for a deteriorating credit
system in India. The major criticisms of the design and implementation of the project included:
(a)   The project was conceived without apparent concern for broader financial sector
issues;
(b)   The use of the IRDP "credit window" to assist India's rural poverty alleviation
efforts limited the Bank's ability to engage GOI in active debate over a broad range
of policy issues associated with rural poverty and procedural issues related to global
IRDP (e.g., allocation of funds, identification of beneficiaries, scope and quantum
of assistance, concentration on livestock, burdens placed by IRDP on the existing
rural administration); and
(c)   To the extent that the main institutional problem--overdues (running about 50% in
late-1983)--got further out of control and the Bank was unable or unwilling to apply
corrective pressures through natior ai projects, the decision to go nationwide in
1975 was unfortunate, if not wrc.-;g. However, almost any action would have
reduced the Bank's disbursement rate and delayed the programmed next phase
project--NABARD I.
Project Formulation--Genesis. Objectives and Description
1.07        Genesis. In anticipation of the completion of ARDC IV in June 1984, GOI
submitted a request to the Bank for the consideration of the NABARD Credit Project in
April 1983.1 However, in view of the unsatisfactory performance of ARDC IV (particularly
1     NABARD, First NABARD Credit Project Bombay, April 1983.



-3-
arrears), as highlighted above, the Bank declined at first to consider a new agricultural credit
project. GOI, wishing continued flow of resources, made nuimerous requests to the Bank and its
management to process a new NABARD-linked project. In June 1984 the Bank communicated to
GOT its assessment of the major pioblems of the rural credit system. Based on GOI's response,
the Bank decided that conditions for its support for a new credit project would be that: (a) GOI
agree to a fundamental .eview of agricultural credit to be undertaken by local and foreign experts in
parallel with Bank financial support for NABARD; and (b) any subsequent Bank lending to
NABARD be linked to satisfactory progress on the formulation and implementation of a long-term
strategy to reform '.ndia's agricultural credit system. Despite previous failures to achieve
improvements in the rural credit system and its institutions, the Bank received assurances from the
Ministry of Finance that refonns were needed and would be an integral part of a new project's
design.
1.08         The Bank continued to think that strengthening of NABARD was - logical vehicle
for fostering reforms within the overall credit system and was an appropriate o. mplement to
ongoing efforts to improve the extension system and nurture more efficient use of agricultural
infristructure. In addition, another large credit project with a tested implementing agency and
project model would afford the Bank an opportunity to meet another major country goal--massive
resource transfer to India. Recorded arguments supporting a new agricultural credit operation
included: (a) a newly observed commitment on the part of NABARD and GOI to address
weaknesses in credit delivery; (b) the importance of Bank support to NABARD in the latter's quest
to regain lost independence; (c) an anticipated rejuvenation of NABARD management likely to lead
to greater receptivity to reforms; and (d) withdrawal of Bank support could impair NABARD's
prestige and effectiveness, thereby jeopardizing the use of NABARD in future Bank projects
channelling credit for specific investment activities. However, disbursements of loar funds for
subloan refinancing should be directly linked tc progress in implementing credit studies and more
rigorous eligibility criteria. Additionally, to address weaknesses previously observed in Bank
supervision, much more emphasis and staff resources were proposed to track project progress,
particularly in meeting development goals.
1.09         Objectives. The project's main objective was to strengthen the agricultural credit
system and improve the quality of credit delivery. Its second objective was to increase agricultural
production, rural income and employment while continuing an emphasis on assistance to small
farmers. Early project documentation stressed that this project was to be a departure from earlier
agricultural credit projects supported by the Bank which had placed greater weight on increasing
agricultural investments and growth; in contrast, the project was to be primarily a vehicle for
institutional reform in the agricultural credit system.
1.10        IDescrip.tia. The project was to include: (a) a three-year time slice2 of
NABARD's refinancing of medium- and long-term credit from participating banks; (b) a crdit
review to define a program for strengthening the agricultural credit system; (c) a pilot scheme in 20
districts to upgrade credit delivery and improve recoveries; and (d) NABARD-sponsored training.
The project contained tighter eligibility crite l for NABARD refinancing which were chiefly meant
to address automatically the chronic probl.ta of arrears at the branch level by forcing those with
low recoveries out of NABARD's refinancing system. Secondarily, more rigorous criteria werc
seen as an indirect constraint on rapid growth in NABARD's refinancing program resulting from
2     A three-year time-frame was advocated to enable GOI and consultants to complete the studies, the pilot
project and institutional development measures proposed and to draw meaningful lessons therefrom. This
longer execution period was also meant to respond to criticisms of earlier, essentially two-year operations
that results were not taken into account in follow-on project preparation.



-4 -
ambitious GOI lending targets3 and in lending of dubious quality under IRDP.4 The project
contained programs to strengthen cooperative development banks and improve IRDP lending.
1.11          Total project costs were estimated at US$5.36 billion equivalert, of which over
99% comprised NABARD's refinancing program.  A  B-nk loan of US$375.0 million was
approved by the Board on February 25, '986 and declared effective on September 6, 1986. In a
departure from earlier projects, Bank funds for NABARD's refinancing program (US$340 million)
were to be disbursed in four tranches based oii the introduction of revised eligibility criteria for
participating banks ard progress in executing the credit review. Another US$3.5 million (1%) was
channeled ftor the credit review, US$25.0 mill;on (7%) for the pilot scheme and US$6.5 million
(2%) for training. The original closin, date was set at December 31, 1989, which was later
extended twice--to December 31, 1990 aad then to June 30, 1 91. Cofinancing was secured from
the Government of the Netherlands for Dfl 45.0 million (about US$22.2 million equivalent), or
0.4% of project costs, for NABARD's refinancing activities.5 (Tables 2 and 3)
Ar*cuftutral Credit Review
1.12          The chief objective of the Review was to define a program to strengthen the
agricultural credit system with a view to improve lending quality, effectiveness and servicing of
farmers while enhancing the calibre of supervision and control over such credit operations. The
Review was given consid'rable importanc.-: Monitorable events in its execution formed the
triggers for Bank loan tranche releases, and any future Bank lending for agricultural credit was
linked to satisfactory progress on a long-term strategy and program to improve India's agricultural
credit system based on the Review and on the implementadon of such a strategy. It was to be
executed by a Senior Experts Group (SEG), later designated the Agricultural Credit Review
Commititee (ACRC), under the general direction of RBI. Due !o the complexity of the subject, five
separate studies were proposed and imple.mented by foreign and local consultants hired by
GOI/RBI in consultation with the Bank. GOI set up a secretariat in RBI for the review and
3      Lending pressures were seen as an important cause for loss of control over lending quality and lack of
success in building greater discipline into the rural credit system under previous Bank-financed agricultural
credit project:- rience, tLere was a proposal at the appraisal stage to introduce conditionality directly
restricdtg lending targets which were keeping credit outflows high. This proposal was rejected by Bank
management on the grounds that agricultural development might be stunted in the prowss.
4      Bank memorandum of March 4, i985. There was some concern within the Bank that mc -e restrictive
eligibility criteria might result in too few bank branches participating in the project to yie!d a viable project
overall.
5      The Dutch grant was disbursed in its entirety in mid-December 1987 as a supplementary tranche in support
of NABARD's refinancing program. This grant to cofinance directly with the Bank was preceded in 1986
by ind& pendent assistance of Dfl 100 million for NABARD refinancing. These were succeeded in 1988 by
additional assistance of Dfl 60 million for similar refinancing, 58% of which is currently on hold pending
favorable outcome of Bank/GOI discussions on agricultural financial reforms. Additionally, in 1987 KfW
provided assistance totallin, 'DM 70 million to NABARD to support drought relief measures.



-5 -
appointed seven members to constitute the ACRC under the chairmanship of Prof. A. M. Khusro.6
A sum of US$3.5 million was originally allocated to finance 100% of expenditures associated with
the ACRC studies, US$1.2 million of which was eventually reallocated to NABARD training
activities reflecti'ig US dollar cost underruns caused by the devaluation of the rupee.
1.13         Five studies were carried out:
(a"    The General Agricltural Credit              m. This examined the role and
operations of the system within the broader context of poverty alleviation and
agricultural development and made recommendations to enhance credit quality,
strengthen efficien y and effectiveness, and improve loan recoveries;
(b)    The Role and Effectiveness of Lending Institutiens  This study reviewed
a broad sample of commercial and cooperative banks, analyzed their effectiveness
in their present roles, their financial structures, operational systems and branch
expansion policies, and recommended how the roles, structures and functions of
these institutions should be modified;
(c)   ITheole and Functions_f heS_ex Entity in Agricultural Credit. It
clarified and defined the roles and functions of NABARD and other apex-level
institutions idvolved in rural credit and how such roles should be played. It made
recommendations concerning NABARD's capital structure, legal underpinning,
relationship with RBI, the National Cooperative Development Corporation and first-
tier banks and its role in improving lendin, quality and the institutional performance
of retail banks;
(d)    Lending Coats and Margijn. This study sought to determine whether lending
margins were appropriate in comparison with the cost of lending, taking into
account staffing, other operational costs of properly functioning credit operations
and overdues. The study made recommendations on appropriate lending margins
for NABARD and.first-tier banks and nn how such margins should be realized; and
(e)    NABARD  Organization  and Management. The study prepared a set of
recommendations with timetable for strengthening NABARD's operations. It
assessed how NABARD's institutional and functional structure should be adjusted
to accommodate the recommendations of the other studies in the Review, how its
operational procedures should be fortified, its staffing and training upgraded, its
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and inspection system enhanced, and its overall
institutional development improved.
6     ACRC members included Messrs. A. M. Khusro (VC Aligarh University) (Chairman); M.M.K. Wali
(Planning Commission, GOi), J.W. Mellor (Director, International Food Policy Research Institute), G. A.
A. van der Linden (General Manager, Rabo Bank, the Netherlands), M.V. Hate (Deputy Govemor, RBI),
A.S.Kahlon (Dean, Agricultural Economics, Punjab University), B. Estanislao (Chairman, Land Bank, the
Philippines) (Members); and C.V.Nair (Ex-Director, RBI) (Head of Secretariat). ACRC members were
essentially presented with finalized study design and TORs. Members later indicated that, in their opinion,
a better product could have been obtained if they had been involved at an earlier stage of the activity,
including drafting of TORs. NABARD also suggested that ACRC studies contained a large overlap of
responsibilities which was mitigated by sharing draft reports among consultants.



-6-
1.14        Consultant services for the studies were procured in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. The studies were implemented as follows:
Study                 Consultants                Completion Date
Original  Actual
1. General Agricultural    Voltas International     8/87      4/88
Credit                 Limited, Bombay
2. Role and Effectiveness  AFC Limited              8/87      4/88
of Lending Institutions   Bombay
3. Role and Functions     Price Water House, Asia    8/87     4/88
of the Apex Entity in    Pacific, Hong Kong
Agricultul Credit
4. Study of Lending       Administrative Staff      8/87      4/88
Costs and Margins     College of India
5. Organization and       Coopers & Lybrand         8/87      9/88
Management of         Associates, London
N ABARD
1.15        The Committee considered results of the five studies and prepared a global report of
findings and recommendations. The Bank reviewed this report in draft and made suggestions on
needed enhancements. The ACRC submitted its draft report7 to RBI in June 1988. RBI and
NABARD studied the final report8 and forwarded comments in April 1990.
1.16        The ACRC Report. The ACRC concluded that the basic building blocks for
India's agricultural credit system in the future should be: (a) a market-based and not an over-
administered banking system; (b) allocation of most credit by market forces--a two-category
approach to credit supply, the larger category for beneficiaries should be market-oriented and the
other for poorer segments of the rural population should be on concessionary terms; (c) avoidance
of populistic interference; (d) a freer interest rate structure, with an administered rate for specified
categories of borrowers only; and (e) governmental assumption of the costs of mandatory and
directed credit programs. It advocated a move away from current administrative paternalism, with
rigid rules and stipulations and a plethora of interest rates and numerous subsidies, through
concrete actions over a 10-15 year period toward much freer commercial and developmental lines
more consistent with supply and demand conditions in the credit market. The Committee
recognized the important role played by credit in poverty alleviation but stressed the need for
concessional credit programs well focussed on specific target groups; such programs should strive
to graduate these poorer clients into the productive and profit-making mainstream. Apart from
such directed programs related to poverty removal, banking institutions should be left relatively
free to follow market interest rates, costs and prices undisturbed by political/social intercessions.
7     Review of the Agicultural Credit System in India, June 1988. The draft final report was done in February
1989 and the final report was completed in September 1989.
8     RBI is currently selling the ACRC Report which is enjoying a high demand both domestk.ally and
intemationally, particularly for credit demand projections.



-7 -
1.17        The ACRC recommended a move away from the current administered system of
interest rates, considered to be complicated and controversial, toward rate liberalization similar to
recent freedoms being offered to commercial banks for non-agricultural lending. However, the
Committee advised a ceiling rate for agriculture of 15.5% for the medium-term. Regarding the
appropriate interest rate for concessionary programs, the Committee suggested that the relative rate
be not less than 1.5% above the highest commercial bank deposit rate. Costs of development
banking, including mobilizing, canvassing and advertising services over and above normal
commercial practices (especially under mandatory and poverty-oriented programs), should be
borne by the Government. The ACRC observed that freer interest rates would enhance the gross
margins between lending and borrowing rates. However, it was clear that the administrative and
other non-interest costs of the credit system were quite high per transaction even before taking into
consideration the high risk cost of bad debts. The Report concluded that little had been done to
reduce costs and improve the quality and efficiency of credit operations; inordinate emphasis had
been placed on expansion of volume. The ACRC recommended many remedial steps to raise
efficiencies, including greater computerization and use of NGOs and group approaches to lending.
1.18        Tne Report emphasized that with the significant growth in the credit system since
the nationalization of commercial banks in 1969 and introduction of Regional Rural Banks (RRBs)
in 1975, loan recovery remained the most seriously deficient aspect throughout the rural credit
system. No type of bank had been able to obtain acceptable levels of arrears control. Overdues
were a nagging problem without significant variation up or down over the last decade or more.
The ACRC argued strongly for depoliticizing rural credit, eliminating politically motivated
accelerated lending schemes, and identifying willful defaulters and pursuing strong remedies. The
Committee proposed a number of actions to reduce overdues to demand by 20% by 1992,
including the establishment of special state-level tribunals to enforce legal remedies.
1.19        Expansion of deposits took place mainly through commercial banks, and neither the
cooperative banks nor the RRBs had developed a culture of deposit mobilization and resource
generation.9 Cooperatives had depended heavily on refinancing and other funds coming from
higher tier institutions and had shunned self-reliance for funds. Cooperatives, subject to undue
government interference, had not developed as self-reliant credit institutions complete with
infrastructure, personnel and operational policies and procedures inspiring confidence. The ACRC
urged particular attention to the cooperative sector, including less government meddling, election of
officers, upgraded training, greater accountability, increased self-reliance in resource mobilization,
vigilance in loan recoveries and establishment of a national cooperative apex institution.
1.20        The ACRC observed that the mandate to lend only to the weaker segments makes
the RRBs inherently non-viable, with high transaction costs and risks while receiving an
inadequate margin. Their management and staff tend to be of poor quality, usually without training
and prior exposure to banking. The Report recommended that these banks be abolished as legal
entities and merged into their sponsoring commercial banks, thereby giving them the benefit of
cross-subsidization available through larger loans made by commercial banks. As regards the
commercial banks, because of high costs of rural branches, they are generally not profitable. They
need to give greater emphasis to development banking strategies and to strengthening their equity
base to compensate for insufficient past profits.
1.21        The ACRC concluded that while NABARD has made significant progress in
providing refinancing services to first-tier banks, it has yet to emerge as the central driving force in
9     NABARD disputes this ACRC finding, citing significant effectiveness in the cooperative sector in
mobilizing deposits. According to NABARD, over the 1985/86-1989/90 period, the all-India level of
annualized deposit growth in District Central Cooperative Banks was 17.5%, marginally lower than the
19.7% recorded by commercial banks.



-8-
the rural credit system. Of its three main functions--refinancing, inspection and institutional
development--NABARD had given insufficient attention to institutional development, both within
client banks and itself. The Report suggested that NABARD promote viable cooperatives and take
steps to upgrade the capabilities of retail banks in project identification, preparation, appraisal and
monitoring by forging a better link between its inspection and development functions. The ACRC
acknowledged the constraints to NABARD of administered interest rates, limited clout over client
banks and its own deficient organizational structure, anid suggested that it should improve its own
project monitoring activities and ensure proper use of credit and loan recovery. NABARD should
be allowed to develop its own stature to enable it to exert increasing leverage and build up clout
with first-tier banks.
1.22         In conclusion, while issue might be taken with some of the more peripheral
recommendations of the ACRC Report, its overall thrusts are sound, offering GOI a technically
solid blueprint for overhauling the rural credit system. While NABARD and RBI appear totally
committed to the institutional reforms recommended, especially contentious issues in future debate
are likely to be market-based interest rates, banking system recapitalizing and autonomy.
Removing political influence from the system will be necessary, but difficult to achieve. In its
dialogue with GOI both about financial sector adjustment generally and rural credit system reforms
specifically, the Bank has been urging GOI to agree to a timetable for updating the ACRC report
and implementing an agreed action plan. GOI has yet to take action in this regard, thereby
retarding preparation of a follow-on NABARD II Project. Lack of GOI action has also alienated
bilateral donors previously willing to support refinancing of rural credit.
The Pilot Scheme
1.23         Background and Concept. A pilot scheme for strengthening agricultural credit
delivery and improve recoveries began operations in October 1984 in one district each in Gujarat,
Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. 10 The scheme covered all institutional agricultural credit
operations in participating districts, seeking to: (a) increase the volume and quality of agricultural
credit operations; (b) strengthen the credit delivery system at the branch-level; and (c) ensure a
timely and sufficient supply of credit and its proper use and repayment by more intensive branch
staff coverage and adoption of appropriate flexibility in lending terms and conditions. These
objectives were to be met by: (i) limiting the workload of field functionaries to a reasonable level,
(ii) ensuring staff mobility, (iii) providing regular need-based training, (iv) introducing structured
work activities for staff, (v) ensuring closer contact between bank staff and clients, (vi) reviewing
and disposing of overdues, and (vii) enabling greater flexibility in lending operations. Very
preliminary results from the pilot in the pre-NABARD I period showed a positive impact on
lending operations at the village-level prompting a proposal to expand into 17 new districts under
NABARD I (the original three district schemes were carried over). A US$25.0 million portion of
the loan was provided to finance 100% of costs associated with incremental staff and operational
costs and 95% of costs of motor vehicles for staff of participating banks.
1.24         Im.Rhmentation. One of the basic inputs provided under the scheme was
incremental staff in order to limit the number of borrowers supervised per person to a manageable
level. Originally, this level was established at 500 clients per field officer but was later increased to
750. To improve the mobility of staff, every field officer was to be provided with a motorcycle.1I
10    The pilot scheme was a derivative of the T&V system employed in agricultural extension. Its rationale and
design were based on the assumption that loan overdues are the result of bank managerial deficiencies,
especially at the branch-level. Building on the T&V model, the schemc included a fixed calendar of expected
visits with bo'rowers and monitoring-cum-training sessions.
11    In the cases of Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies, secretaries were supplied with bicycles.



-9-
The project envisaged that staff would receive continuous in-service training to improve
professional competence and that Monthly Training Meets (MTMs) would be held to discuss
operational problems, provide guidance and achieve solutions; these sessions included formal
lectures by subject matter specialists on such topics as agricultural operations; finance and banking,
cooperatives and marketing. Field officers (FOs) were expected to make field visits for 12-15
days/mo of which 8-10 days were expected to follow prearranged visit schedules. Field officers
mntained detailed client registers for recording the operational and financial condition of the client
and the health of the asset and daily diaries for logging FOs' activities.
1.25         Resulil..12 The pilot scheme was eventually extended to only 13 additional
districts, yielding a total of 16 districts covered under the project. NABARD assigned NABARD
officials at its Bombay headquarters to supervise the implementation of the scheme and guide
coordinators from participating banks. Pilot cells were established in NABARD regional offices
and in its national office in Bombay. Delays were experienced in identifying the new districts for
inclusion in NABARD I (July 1986 (12) and April 1988 (1)); hence, one district participated for
less than three years, as opposed to the 4-5 year period envisaged in the scheme's design. In fact,
the latter district, located in J&K never really saw its pilot activities launched because of political
unrest. When the pace of execution proved slow, US$10 million was reallocated to the NABARD
refinancing component in 1987, and the component's allocation was reduced further to
US$12 million in 1991.
1.26         The 1991 ISEC study (footnote 12) concluded that while factors exogenous to the
scheme mitigated against its effectiveness and while variability in results was observed across
states and bank type, the impact of the scheme was positive. It lessened complicated procedures
for borrowers and improved the timeliness and adequacy of rural credit. Loans were sanctioned
more expeditiously. As a result of simplified access to credit, farmers showed greater willingness
to shift from moneylenders to institutional credit. Borrower-banker interface improved, with the
latter obtaining a better appreciation for client problems and circumstances. However, regrettably,
the scheme had little demonstrable impact on recoveries, deposits or lending outflows. In
particular, the cost effectiveness of the scheme was not clearly established to the satisfaction of
senior commercial bank officials. Hence, replication of the scheme should be limited; on social
grounds, backward areas should be considered for future projects if linked to a carefully
implemented preparatory phase and ongoing and ex-post evaluation. If such replication is
considered desirable public subsidy would be necessary.
1.27         Important implementation problems observed included:
(a)    Staffing. An initial nationwide ban on recruitment meant that staff for the scheme
had to be transferred from non-pilot to pilot districts. Such transfers were attractive
to participating banks because portions of wage bills were shifted onto the project.
However, FOs were often not willing to make such moves, and these transfers
caused dislocations at offices relinquishing staff. NABARD's chairman had to seek
GOI's partial waiver to the ban. Eventually, staffing delays were experienced and
staffing norms (500 agricultural accounts per FO, changed to 750) had to be
adjusted to reflect staffing realities. Transfers were quite common over the
implementation period, and staff anticipated a withdrawal from the scheme at
project completion;
12    Useful information obtained from an ex- pQs study of the Pilot Scheme in four districts: NABARD, Pilot
Project for Strengthening Credit Delivery System: Terminal E.jIuation Report Bombay, July 1991; and
an independent, expost evaluation study in five other participating districts commissioned by NABARD:
Institute for Social and Economic Change, Strengthening the Credit Delivery System, Bangalore,
April 30, 1991. The NABARD report also incorporates findings from the ISE' study.



10-
(b)   pager Work. The scheme made no provision for clerical staff. Hence, field staff
had heavy record-keeping responsibilities which restricted their in-field activities.
FOs emphasized that they supervised fewer borrowers but did more desk work.13
Client registers and daily diaries were not maintained as well after mid 1989,
resulting in less personalized contacts with borrowers and difficulties for new FOs
filling vacancies;
(c)   MTS. While the monthly sessions were considered useful for collective problem-
solving and enhancing the general awareness of bankers, the MTMs were judged to
be too frequent and were later changed to bimonthly; and
(d)   Transort. While overall transport improved markedly under the scheme, many
FOs had none. When staff transferred out of the scheme, they usually took the
vehicles they purchased on favorable terms through their branches, meaning that
their replacements often lacked vehicles. Also, with higher fuel prices, allowances
for vehicle fuel and maintenance proved insufficient, resulting in less vehicle use
and reduced client contact.
1.28        The ISEC study was especially enlightening because control districts were used to
gauge the results within five pilot scheme districts. While variation can be observed between
banks, branches and states, the following generalizations can be gleaned from the ISEC review:
(a)   Dgnosits. Deposits grew by 20% p.a. over the 1984/85-1988/89 period in pilot
districts and by 19% in control districts within the same states. A key measure of a
branch manager's success was deposit mobilization, and the period under review
was considered very favorable for such mobilization nationwide. No significant
difference was observed between pilot and control districts;
(b)   Credit Outflow&s. In pilot districts credit advances increased by 17% p.a. over
the same period, versus 15% p.a. in the control districts. No significant difference
was observed;
(c)   Recovesri. Recoveries in pilot districts declined marginally over the 1984/85-
1988/89 period while no change was observed in control districts. Removal of
1988/89 data from the analysis'4 suggested that recoveries improved on average by
1% per year in both pilot and control districts. Poorer performance was observed
in cooperative banks; and
(d)   Overdues. Over the 1984/85-1987/88 period, overdues in pilot districts increased
by 17% p.a. in contrast with 13% in control districts. Including 1988/89
information, overdues as a percentage of total demand rose in pilot districts from 60
to 61% but dropped from 64 to 59% in control districts.
1.29         Conclusions. The pilot scheme was successful in expanding contacts between
bankers and borrowers and in introducing more responsiveness and agility to the rural credit
system. As a result, rural clients were better served. "It should, however, be bome in mind that
the project did not envisage any structural change in the existing credit delivery system but only
13    The ISEC report suggested that much of this could have been alleviated through greater computerization.
14    By 1989 support for a loan waiver campaign was gaining momentum especially in North India (see para
1.30(b)).



- 11 -
provided for improved borrower-field officer relationship for better loaxi servicing, which in turn
was expected to facilitate timely and effective recovery of loans to a larger extent."'5 Clearly,
based on the scheme's results summarized in para 1.28, it made little improvement on the banking
fundamentals related to the basic aspects of banking profitability. The focus of the scheme on only
one aspect of the system--portfolio supervision--without concurrent reforms was a major fault.
1.30         The pilot generally failed to demonstrate to participating banks that investment in
more staff and vehicles at the rural branch-level is cost-effective. Exogenous factors (in effect
within the pilot districts as well as outside) such as weather, politics and changes in government
policy, proved far more important to the success or failure of a rural branch, especially as regards
overdues, than the activities supported by the scheme.16 A few examples are given below:
(a)    Political Interference. The autonomy of banks was consistently compromnised
by political interference. The role of the banker in the task of client selection was
marginalized: Loan sanctioning was decided by a committee composed of the
Block Development Officer (BDO), the local political leader and the bank
representative. The BDO controlled the process and often beneficiary selection was
influenced by politics and corruption. The banker, in turn, frequently wanted only
to meet lending targets. As a result, misuse of power and funds was high. In
addition, the selection process caused bunching of applications because the names
of selected beneficiaries would be released only at month's end, causing insufficient
time for pre-sanctioning visits to prospective borrowers to establish
creditworthiness and investment viability;
(b)    Waiver of Rural Loans. The 1989 election-related initiative supported by the
Janata Dal Party to cancel up to Rs. 10,000 per rural borrower had devastating
fiscal implications for India. The final cost to the public exchequer is still not
known, but is expected to total about Rs. 80 billion (US$3.9 billion). Perhaps
even more serious, however, has been its impact on the financial integrity of the
rural banking system and borrower acceptance of responsibility for debt repayment.
The waiver has made it difficult to convince rural clients that repayments should
not be linked to the store of GOI resources. A recent RBI report describes the
situation as follows:
In the recent period, the problem [of non-profitability of the banking
system] has been accentuated by the Agricultural and Rural Debt Relief
Scheme which offers waiver of overdues under both production and
investment credit, subject to specified criteria; this has resulted in a major
setback, to the general environment of recovery of dues. While there are
time-tested procedures for affording relief to borrowers affected by natural
calamities, across-the-board loan and/or interest waivers have seriously
impaired credit discipline. This discriminates against those who repay their
obligations and also damages the health of the credit institutions. The
15    NABARD, OD iL, pp. 9-10.
16    The parallel to T&V remains striking not just in scheme design but also in critique. A recent OED study
of T&V in six Bank-funded projects noted that the underpinning philosophy of T&V is that fL. , s lack
knowledge which if provided through an intensive extension system would foster adoption of a specific
technology. In the OED review, lack of knowledge was rarely cited by farmers as the reason for non-
adoption. The reasons most frequently mentioned were factors exogenous to T&V: economic
considerations, climatic factors, unavailability of inputs and lack of irrigation. OED, Perfomance Audt
Report Ag[kultural Extension and Research in India, RPeport No. 8808, June 29, 1990.



-12-
recent experience has been one of a virtual cessation of recovery and also a
consequent tendency towards cessation of lending. Such a situation cannot
but inflict irretrievable damage to the financial system especially insofar as
it caters to agriculture and rural credit. It is, therefore, necessary to take
steps to restore normalcy in the rural credit system.17
(c)   Wather.  Droughts in 1986-87 and 1987-88 had very serious impact on
overdues. These prompted GOI to announce in 1987 a two-year postponement of
debt repayment obligations and to instruct the banks to work out the specifics of
this massive rescheduling exercise. In addition, NABARD/GOI requested the Bank
to agree to a temporary suspension of eligibility criteria for participating banks and
the Bank to eventually postpone a scheduled percentage step-up of such criteria by
six months (para 1.41(c)); 18
(d)   Interest Rates. Banks in India do not make profits on rural loans because of the
administered structure of interest rates. Initiatives supported by the pilot scheme
which contributed to timeliness and adequacy of credit should have required
complementary actions to modify the fundamentals of the rural banking system,
including enhancements to interest rat,s which offer banking institutions suitable
profit margins. Otherwise, sich banks will be unwilling to expend from their own
funds for incremental staff, tne key ingredient of the scheme. While not detracting
from the need to adjust interest rates upward, an argument can be made that normal
credit margins generally cannot support lending to the poor in India without
government subsidies, reflecting the inherent high cost and riskiness of such
transactions. Some upward (and some downward) revisions to nominal interest
rates were carried out over the 1987-1991 period for certain categories of subloans,
generally attempting to link interest rates to loan sizes (Table 4). However, in real
terms interest rates deteriorated, as exemplified by interest rates on schemadc loans
for minor irrigation and land development:
Xa       Nominal Rate   Inflation Rate    Real Rate
1987-88         10.0            8.2            1.8
1990-91         10.0           12.4           - 2.4
(e)   Service Area Approach (SAA). During project implementation, a "service
area" scheme was evolved by the RBI. The rationale was to make the rural lending
operations of the commercial banks more cost-effective by achieving economies of
scale by allocating every village in the country to a single commercial bank to be
serviced by a branch of that bank. With establishment of new SAA boundaries of
responsibility, some banks had to move out of a given area, causing disruption to
pilot scheme operations supported under the project. In addition, the Bank
considered the SAA another retrograde step in agricultural credit more generally by
further targeting and by inhibiting competition and bank autonomy.
1.31        In summary, aspects of the pilot scheme which were reladvely cost-free, such as
17    RBI, Annul Repgr, 1990-91, p. 138.
18    The droughts also prompted the Bank to accelerate tranche disbursements for NABARD refinancing.



- 13-
improved administration procedures, were accepted and are being replicated in non-pilot districts.
These may well prove the most sustainable aspect of the scheme until such time as the cost-
effectiveness of the more expensive components (e.g., manpower and vehicles) can be
demonstrated. This will require as preconditions major structural adjustments to the rural credit
system permitting banks adequate margins, perhaps augmented by some subsidy, to cover costs.
Expansion of the scheme into backward areas, as advocated by ISEC on social grounds, would
doubtless require suppcrt from the public exchequer.
NABARD.Sponsored Training
1.32        During the project period, NABARD continued to accord high priority to the
training needs of its own staff, participating banks and other ancillary institutions. Originally,
US$6.6 million of loan funds were allocated to support project-related training. Loan amounts
equivalent to US$1.2 million (from the ACRC studies) and US$3.0 million (from the pilot
scheme) were reallocat.d to the training component, increasing its funding to US$10.7 million.
Loan funds were made available by the Borrower (GOI) to NABARD on a grant basis for
payments of course participants' per diem and costs, lecturers, fees, teaching materials, equipment
and other administrative costs of running NABARD's training facilities. Training activities carried
out under the project are listed in Table 5; these can be summarized as follows: (a) training for
senior and middle-level staff in rural development including project analysis, bank inspection and
personnel management; (b) short courses on technical subjects; (c) training of junior-level staff of
Land Development Banks (LDBs); and (d) an experimental training program (Rural Branch
Management and Credit Delivery) which aimed to enhance the quality of lending, improve
recoveries and streamline branch administration. A weakness of the training component was its
neglect of Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS) to raise capability at grassroots.
1.33        NABARD's commitment to staff development is impressive.19 Its management
supports training, and the planning and implementation of training programs is carried out by an
energetic and professional division based at NABARD headquarters assisted by training cells in
each of NABARD's regional offices. NABARD met or exceeded all training targets set out at
appraisal. Responding to criticisms that too much emphasis was being placed on quantity at the
expense of quality in its training programs, NABARD selected a study group to review the training
activities and management of its Bankers Institute of Rural Development (BIRD) in Lucknow.
This study recommended that BIRD become an Institute of Excellence and that it be made an
autonomous institution administered by a governing body headed by NABARD's chairman. A
revised curriculum was advocated and case study development was recommended to enrich the
quality of training. Other innovations introduced by NABARD along with these to enhance quality
were: (a) greater linkage between induction training and eventual job assignments, involving on-
the-job training in regional offices; (b) more attention to career development; and (c) better
personnel management. In conclusion, while NABARD has done a laudable job in implementing
the project's training component and in upgrading the quality of its training initiatives, the impact
of better trained banking staff on the rural credit system will be limited as long as banks operate in
a general policy environment hostile to responsible banking. Future training initiatives should
focus more on village-level lending, i.e., PACS.
Rural Credit Reflnancing
1.34        The largest component of the project was NABARD's refinancing activities over
three years (FY1986-87 to 1988-89). This program was expected at appraisal to provide about
US$3.8 billion equivalent to refinance investments totalling about Rs. 63.8 billion
19    Based on assessments described in Bank memoranda of September 25, 1989 and March 19, 1990.



-14 -
(US$5.3 billion).20 This program was prepared by NABARD in consultadon with the states and
relevant GOI ministries to coordinate resources channelled though NABARD with the total
investments under the Seventh Plan (1984-1989). A major portion of the resources needed to fund
this investmnent program were to come from NABARD and GOV/RBI (appraisal estimate: 65%).
The Bank and other cofinanciers were to finance about 7%, and sub-borrowers and participating
banks were to cover 10% and 18%, respectively. Unlike in earlier credit projects financed by the
Bank, this component was funded with tranche disbursements, the releases of which were linked
to the introduction of revised eligibility criteria for first-tier banks and progress in implementing the
agricultural credit review.
1.35          Schematic21 investments under the project totalled Rs. 52.4 billion (US$3.7
billion). Although this was a major increase over the pre-project period, it was an 11% reduction
in nominal rupees (25% in US$) compared to SAR targets,22 reflecting unrealistic original targets
and reduced borrowings due to natural calamities. Non-schematic investments, however, proved
121% above appraisal estimates thereby resuldng in global project refinancing targets being met.
20     Both schematic and non-schematic lending were included in project cost estimates, although Bank and Dutch
financing covered only the former (92% of es' ated ground-level investment costs). Non-schematic
investments, expected to total US$413 million over the three years, includes chiefly crop storage, input
stocks and rural electrification. In actuality, non-schematic investments proved to be 17% of total
investments as this category witnessed a 121% increase (in rupee terms) over the three-year period.
21     Under schematic lending, a generalized plan for a specific investment (e.g., tractor) or a sanctioned area
development progran (e.g., tubewell installation) is prepared and NABARD, after approving the generalized
scheme, rermances all bank-approved subloans submitted under that scheme. Under non-schematic lending,
the sub-borrower has to submit a unique, formal proposal to a bank for review and s,anction after which
NABARD reviews it on an individual basis.
22     The percentage differences are due to exchange rate adjustments.



- 15 -
The following table presents schematic and non-schematic investment expenditures23 (Tables 6 and
7):
Credit-Related Investments
(Rs. Billion)
SAR Esti aijte.    Actual      % Increase/Decrease (-)
Minor Irrigation and Land
Development                         18.9             16.1                -15
Farm Mechanization                      9.4            12.0                 27
IRDP                                   19.4            12.6                -35
Other (Dairy, Other Livestock,
Plantations, Fisheries, Forestry)    11.2            11.7                  4
Schematic Subtotal              58.9            52.4                -11
Non-Schematic Investments a/            5.0            11.0                 121
Project Total                   63.9            63.4                 -1
a/ Refinanced exclusively with NABARD's resources.
1.36         Minor irrigation consumed the largest share of investment credit refinanced by
NABARD (44.3%.see Table 7, Part III), with tractor purchase and dairy development representing
the next most important activities at 18.5% and 10.7%, respectively (para 1.47). The pattern of
investments supported under the project was broadly in conformity with appraisal estimates except
for IRDP. Investments under IRDP proved 35% lower than appraisal estimates chiefly due to the
exclusion of an Industry, Services and Business (ISB) component of IRDP under the project.24
Minor irrigation and land development, expected together to account for 29% of project-related
investments, actually absorbed 32%; the marginally higher share of total disbursement was partly
due to the refinancing of Rs. 1.3 billion under the subsidy-linked Centrally Sponsored Massive
National Program.25 The states of Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh accounted for
36% of total investments associated with NABARD refinancing (i.e., both schematic and non-
schematic) while Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Assam and the seven
Northeast States, Bihar, West Bengal and Orissa were responsible for only 17% (Table 8). Of this
total investment package of Rs. 63.4 billion, NABARD refinancing covered 57%. T.hrough the
NABARD refinancing window, the Bank and Dutch assistance financed about 10% of all
23    As shown in Table 7, IRDP lending covers most of the same categories of non-IRDP lending.
24    NABARD advises that it did not submit ISB claims under the project because, inter alia, the non-farm
nature of such loans were not amenable to the seasonality associated with lending and recovery observed
under agricultural lending. It maintains that ISB was also outside the domain of the agricultural credit
system, the thrust of the projecL
25    A Centrally-sponsored program to encourage minor irrigation which NABARD refinances. This program
circumvents the need for farmers to go to the Irrigation Department for very small irrigation investments.



- 16-
schematic investments or about 8%  of global investments, totalling about US$3.7 billion
equivalent.
Eli*iboIity Criteria-The Principal Imolementation Issue
1.37         The poor financial health of bank branches was a chronic problem affecting the rural
credit svstem.  Although the Bank had fostered the adoption of eligibility criteria for
ART)C/NABARD refinancing since 1975, criteria adopted proved essentially ineffective ir,
tightening up tne rural credit system.26 The Bank had been partly to blame for this by approving
arrangements to soften considerably agreed criteria and postpone their application. Certain criteria
implemented under earlier projects were considered so generous that these in no way curtailed
refinancing by the apex entity. In addition, quantitative adjustments in effect weakened eligibility
tests.27 Hence, the conclusion during NABARD I preparation was that past efforts at establishing
fmancial discipline through eligibility criteria had failed and the hemorrhaging continued. Because
of socio-political pressures, the second-tier bank had been generally unable to cut-off funds to
financially or managerially weak primary lending institutions, forcing the apex to act merely as a
disbursing agent for GOI to channel rural credit funds rather than as a capable wholesale bank
engaged in refinancing based on sound banking criteria.
1.38         Despite some concerns within the Bank that rigorous eligibility criteria might
constrain agricultural development, the Bank genuinely wished to use NABARD I as a vehicle to
address past weaknesses in this area and such criteria were seen as useful tools:
Eligibility criteria per se were, at best, rough measures of bank branch performance
and crude means of controlling and improving lending quality, including recovery
within the credit system. There was, however, no more appropriate way by which
individual bank branch performance could be encapsulated in a simple, easily-
understood performance/quality measure and, for this project at least, such criteria
would continue to play an important role in monitoring and controlling branch
performance....The introduction oi "clean" (i.e., excluding short-term lending and
recoveries and State Government contributions) eligibility criteria which have
"teeth" but which remain realistic and achievable would be an important
breakthrough in this project.28
1.39         More rigorous nationwide eligibility criteria took on added importance because these
proved to be NABARD I's principal developmental instrument to go into effect during its
implementation period. Based on these performance indicators, NABARD as implementing
agency and apex was to institute measures either to rehabilitate weaker lending (cooperative)
institutions or to recommend mergers/closures in the interest of strengthening the rural credit
system. Little, however, was done to address such poorer performers.29 This lack of success
26    Some successes were achieved between 1978 and 1981.
27    Blending of short- and longer-term debt recoveries as well as crediting state government subsidies and
guarantee repayments for "blocked" accounts were two calculation adjustments used which improved
recovery test results.
28    Bank memorandum, March 4, 1985.
29    This was despite plans spelled out in the case of Land Development Banks to: (a) selecL units having
overdues of 60% or more; (b) investigate overdues by district-level committees; (c) strengthen units'
management and organization; (d) train at NABARD's cost; (e) streamline loan policy procedures; (f)



- 17-
arose in large measure from lack of financial and other commitments of the states under whose
purview the cooperative banks come. Because coop-rative banks are outside the authority of
national banking legislation, NABARD as a national institution was unable to act wit} out such state
collaboration.
1.40         Agreed criteria were also seen as a useful inistrument for: ,a) tightening NABARD's
quantitative and qualitadve controls over IRDP-related credit releases; and (b) limiting the growth
of NABARD's refinancing in lieu of imposing specific curbs on lending targets through loan
covenants. A condition of loan effectiveness was the adoption by NABARD of agreed criteria.
The crteria were embodied in a timebound program in which access to NABARD refinancing
became more restrictive over time if concomitant improvements in recovery performance by weaker
banks were not real' ed.30 These criteria also contained important clarifications to plug what were
perceived to be previous loopholes: (i) state government contributions to banks would not be
applied as cash recoveries for purposes of eligibility calculation; (ii) credit demand,31 as used for
purposes of defining loan recovery, was limited only to medium- and long-term loans; and (iii)
criteria applied to brnches, not district- or state-level operations.
1.41          Agreed eligibility criteria were enacted on July 1, 1986. The following were the
principal issues which surfaced in implementation:
(a)   ISL. NABARD continued its previous practice of excluding the Industry, Service
and Business (ISB) portion of IRDP 1vnding and other non-farm loans from the
calculations of branch recoveries consistent with agreed methodologies. NABARD
argued that such exclusions were adopted under ARDC IV and should be continued
under NABARD I as incentives for directed lending to these areas. The Bank urged
that all term lending be included, citing that their exclusion was resulting in distorted
pictures of the financial health of branches and acting as a stimulant for excessive
lending to non-farm activities. NABARD, however, continued to exempt ISB and
non-rural lending from the criteria. The Bank and NABARD carried on this debate
throughout implementation, eventually deciding to postpone to NABARD II
discussions a resolution of the issue (paras 1.42, 1.45 and 1.51);
(b)   Qther Refinancing. About 90% of Land Development Banks' (LDB) resources
came from NABARD refinancing and the balance from ordinary debentures.
NABARD felt that lending financed with the latter should not be judged by the
rigorous eligibility criteria in force under NABARD I. The Bank held that it should,
in the interest of financial discipline, but concluded that it had no legal authority to
require such applicability.
contribute share capital; (g) provide technical assistance in financial management; (h) assist in the creation
of rehabilitation cells at the state-level; (i) constitute district-level rehabilitation committees; and 0)
establish state-level committees to review progress of rehabilitation programs. (NABARD, Pro s Repon
as on 30 June 1986, Bombay, pp. 3-4).
30     Special eligibility criteria were adopted for NABARD rerinancing of term lending by cooperative banks;
these criteria were similar to those existing for NABARD's short-term lending to cooperative banks, except
tnat the minimum eligible recovery perft nance was raised from 40% to 60%. At NABARD/GOI's
request, these special criteria were dropped in 1987 and the cooperative sector participated under the uniform
set of criteria.
31     For pwposes of eligibility criteria calculation, demand was dcfined as the aggregate of principal and interest
on medium-term and long-term loans due during the fiscal year under consideration, plus overdues from
previous fiscal years. Recovery rate meant that part of demand which had been collected in cash (SAR,
Schedule C, para 4).



-18-
(c)   Drouglt. To ensure sufficient credit for rural borrowers during the 1987-88
drought--considered the wcrst in the centurv--NABARD requested a one-year
suspension of eligibility criteria.32 The Bank refused this proposal citing .he
overriding need for discipline within the credit system. However, the Bank did take
a number of important steps to respond to the drought: (i) the scheduled step-up by
five percentage points in the agreed eligibility criteria was postponed by six months
to July 1, 1988; (ii) a waiver of a study-related disbursement condition for second
tranche release (disbursed in December 1987); (iii) through a reallocation of loan
funds, the amount for NABARD refinancing was increased to US$350 million; and
(iv) the second tranche was increased from US$80 million to US$150 rnillion by
reducing the scheduled third and fourth tranches from US$80 million to
US$50 million.
1.42        Conclugsi . While NABARD claims to have successfully implemented the
agreed criteria, despite the dispute with the Bank over the interpretation of some of the legal
covenants, the stricter benchmarks did not appear to unduly constrain increases to NABARD's
refinance lending, an objective mentioned during project formulation (para 1.40). For example, in
1986-87, the first year of applicability of new criteria, lending refinancing increased
Rs.13.3 billion compared to Rs.1 1.9 billion in the previous year. Also, the record suggests that
NABARD may have exerted excessive energies in seeking waivers to the criteria, particularly
during the drought crisis, rather than focussing on actions to improve the financial status and
recoveries of participating bank branches. This may well have resulted from overriding political
and social factors impinging on the financial system which diminished chances of success in
meeting the key developmental objectives of the project.
IRDP Lendin
1.43        During project preparation it was concluded that the institutional performance of
IRDP needed improvement to upgrade the quality of investments financed under the program
Toward this end, the project endeavored to curtail NABARD refinancing of IRDP subloans of
dubious quality, im.prove the coordination within the banking sector, maintain closer control over
planning and implementtation at the district and block levels and increase monitoring and evaluation
of IRDP scheme loans. Accordingly, the project encouraged the establishment of a task force to
assess operational procedures, review groups at district-level and a special cell at NABARD
headquarters to monitor the work of these regional bodies and to organize data collection.
Additionally, NABARD was required to carry out about 15 monitoring studies focussed on IRDP
operations in selected districts.
1.44        NABARD comp;ied well with dated covenants requiring the establishment of the
IRDP task forces and district committees to review procedures and problems associated with the
program. Each meeting was held regularly and was preceded by field visits, down to branch-level,
to check on accounting and other operational matters. IRDP planning and review groups reported
to NABARD Central every six months, allowing better tracking of IRDP lending. NABARD
reports a number of concrete benefits derived from its greater scrutiny of IRDP operations: (a)
bankers feel that a professional financial institution is now overseeing IRDP lending; (b) NABARD
has produced district-based project profiles covering technical and financial aspects of IRDP
investments; (c) a number of new lending approaches has been adopted: e.g., multiple asset
financing ("Family Credit Plan" implemented in four pilot districts) and women-oriented group
investments centered on cottage industries, and greater disbursement in-cash within more
32    In addition to requesting a waiver of criteria, to mitigate the effects of the drought in 1987, GOI announced
a two-year postponement of debt-repayment obligations and instructed he banks to work out appropriate
loan reschedulings.



- 19-
developed blocks; (d) the size of IRDP consumption loans nave been increased (Rs. 500 to 1000)
to avoid misuse of investment loans; and (e) NABARD has adopted a more active role in
recommending reschedulings of IRDP loans. NABARD notes that while these measures have
enhanced the quality of IRDP lending, future steps can be taken to build on progress achieved:
e.g., greater stress needs to be placed on the financing of activities rather than lending to persons,
newer and more modem promotional activities need to be adopted to popularize IRDP lending in
both the farm and non-farm sectors and greater training of bank branch staff as well as IRDP
beneficiaries in debt management. Nevertheless, these positive steps taken by NABARD do not
detract from: (a) the massive and unwieldy size of the IRDP portfolio and the continuing chronic
nature of overdues--the latter unlikely to improve without major reformns within the rural financial
sector, and (b) the strong welfare nature of IRDP lending with inherently high risk.
Project Ratings
1.45        The project witnessed a gradual worsening in overall status rating as implementation
unfolded. In the first seven of ten 590s, the project was ranked a "2" project overall; only in the
seventh supervision did individual performance ratings start to fall below this "2" level as
development impact fell to "'3". The eighth 590 (October 1989) saw overall status drop to "3" as
compliance with legal covenants fell to "4". The latter score was given because of the chronic
disagreement with NABARD/GOI on the question of exclusion of ISB and non-rural loans for
purposes of eligibility criteria (para 1.41 (a)). The final two 590s rnked the project a "4" overall
because of non-compliance with legal covenants (ISB and non-rural loans)33 and inaction by GOI
on the ACRC recommendations (Table 14). Despite this overall deterioration, project management
performance and availability of funds remained relatively problem-free. Better ratings earlier in
implementation doubtless reflected a sense of optimism that key developmental objectives would be
met. This optimism was fueled by good progress in the ACRC studies and related tranche
disbursements. When completion of the study and internal reviews dragged on, it became clear
that nothing was being accomplished to enact the ACRC recommendations. Hopes for substantial
and immediate improvements in the rural financial market were further thwarted with the enactment
of the loan waiver scheme of 1990.
isbursements
1.46        Actual disbursements generally outpaced appraisal esdmates due to the increase in
the second tranche described in para 1.41(c), (Tables 9, 10 and 11, Chart 1). The Closing Date
was extenided twice to December 31, 1990 and then June 30, 1991 to permit completion of Pilot
Scheme activities.
Benefits
1.47        Through NABARD refinanced credit, the project benefited an estimated 6 million
rural inhabitants (about 20% more than appraisal estimate), and generated permanent employment
equivalent to about 525 million mandays (about 7% more than appraisal estimate) (Table 12). No
overall economic rate of return was calculated for the project ex-ante or ex-post. Based on good ex
M evaluation studies conducted by NABARD, the current financial and economic rates of return
for typical selected investments (e.g., minor irrigation, dairy, farm mechanization, plantations and
horticulture) were comparable to appraisal estimates. Examples studied account for the major share
of investments financed under the project (Table 13).
33    NABARD contends that protracted discussions were held with the Bank regarding ISB and eligibility criteria
and that an agreement was reached to settle the issue in the context of NABARD IT preparation. Hence, it
feels that exclusion of ISB from eligibility criteria under these circumstances did not constitute a breach of
loan covenanL The Bank felt otherwise.



-20-
Insfitutoonal EerforMac
1.48        The Bank. The Bank must be faulted for approving this follow-on project without
a sound sector work basis and a firm comnitment from GOT/NABARD to reforms essential to a
healthy rural credit system, especially after notorious predecessor-projects with poor records in
subloan recoveries. Once again, the Bank lent for a next phase project without even awaiting the
lessons from a predecessor-project (ACRC IV)--a common concern raised in previous OED
reports. Now, eight years later, the Bank is engaged in this dialogue and will hopefully derive
products of a developmental, sustainable nature (para 1.53). The Bank was also guilty of fostering
a cooperative bank rehabilitadon scheme for NABARD to implement without a clear understanding
of the state/Center lines of responsibilities as regards cooperatives. This activity was doomed to
failure without prior commitment from the states to encourage and support rehabilitadon efforts.
This defect could have been detected through better sector work preparation. Most importantly, the
Bank exhibited excessive optimism that GOI would enact reforms recommended by ACRC; such
optimism should have been reinforced by loan covenants requiring concrete actions on obvious
aspects in need of reform, e.g., interest rates.
1.49        Mainly through supervision the Bank contributed significantly to the project. It
developed a collaborative relationship with NABARD officials and the SEG. The Bank's
participation in workshops and its comprehensive field reports were part.cularly valuable. The
Bank placed major emphasis on the ACRC studies as the keys to future structural adjustments in
rural ct .. and pressed GOI/NABARD for reforms. Ten supervision missions reviewed project
progress, with considerable continuity of staff. Project activities were also reviewed as part of
supervising credit components of other projects, and later, during preliminary NABARD I
discussions. The following table summarizes supervision coefficients of the project and five
comparator-projects in India, showing that NABARD I, despite a relatively short implementation
period, consumed a high-average amount of staff resources for supervision (Tables 14 and 15).34
These data are considered inexact because of NABARD I's overlapping with other operational
activities, as mentioned above:
Supervision Inputs l
Staffweeks b/
NABARD Credit Project                           222.7
National Agricultural Research Project          260.9
National Agricultural Extension Project I       260.8
National Agricultural Extension Project II      240.9
Natioual Daily Project II                       118.6
National Cooperative Dev. Corp. Project II       94.8
aI Through December 10,1991.
bl Local higher level staff and consultants undiscounted. Discounted data not presented because considered
spurious.
34    Project identification/preparation used 132.8 staff weeks; appraisal, 60.1; negotiations, Board approval
through effeciveness, 22.9 (undiscounted).



- 21 -
1.50        NABARD and-GO I. NABARD gave full support to the Bank during all stages
of the project. NABARD was a conscientious implementing agency, which traversed the difficult
mine field of attempting to achieve developmental objectives at the constant urging of the Bank
while answering to political and social forces capable of making decisions countervailing important
project initiatives meant to strengthen the rural financial system. Progress reports produced by
NABARD were of good quality, but were criticized periodically by the Bank for over-emphasis on
traditional lending activities at the expense of the developmental aspects of the project. GOI's
unwillingness to formulate an ACRC-related reform package and the eventual decision to
implement the loan waiver scheme scuttled project success and the Bank's ability to consider GOI
as conscientious in promoting sustainable rural credit development.
Compliance with Legal Covenants
1.51        NABARD/GOI were in full compliance with covenants related to accounts and
audits. As stated above (para 1.41(a)), the Bank and the Borrower maintained a protracted
dialogue without resolution on issues regarding specific calculations of eligibility criteria,
prompting the Bank toward the end of implementation to rate the project as having major problems
as regards compliance with legal covenants (Table 16).
Overall Findings and Lessons Learned
1.52        The subloan refinancing component of the project, as in previous ones, was
successfully cairied out and yielded healthy increments to productive investments, income and
employment. However, NABARD I proved unsuccessful in contributing to a significant
improvement in the rural credit system of India. In certain respects, the system is worse off today
than at the time of appraisal in 1984 due to factors outside the Project. Although it was hoped that
the studies financed under the project would lead to major policy reforms, and thus provide the
main ex-post justification of NABARD I and set the stage for further lending for rural credit by the
Bank, the socio-political climate of India has not encouraged such structural adjustments. GOI has
not adopted reforms recommended in the ACRC Report, agricultural interest rates were reduced in
real terms during implementation, and the rural loan writeoff scheme was a major retrograde
measure. As a result, the same criticism of ARDC IV applies: By making large external resources
available in the short-run to the Indian rural credit system without ensuring remedy for the serious
problems existing, the Bank failed to make a long-term developmental contribution (para 1.06).
1.53        The successes of the project--the training component, improvements in IRDP
portfolio management, selected aspects of the Pilot Scheme and the ACRC Report and related
studies--have been overwhelmed and countervailed by a policy environment hostile to an efficient
and sustainable agricultural credit system. The latter successes, however, are useful bases and
precedents for when GOT decides to take the needed but difficult actions to reform the rural credit
system within the context of global financial sector adjustments such as the Bank is attempting to
foster through its dialogue with GOI. Based on the framework provided by the report of the recent
Narisimham Committee, which submitted its findings and recommendations on needed financial
sector adjustments to GOI in end-November, 1991, the thrust of these reforms would: (a) take
into consideration the recommendations of the ACRC report; (b) re-define NABARD's role; (c)
address bad debts and include recapitalization plans for banks; (d) seek autonomy for rural banking
free of political interference; (e) foster modern internal management systems; and (f) upgrade
prudential regulation and supervision. In its quest for structural adjustments within the rural credit
system and the wider financial system, the Bank should also encourage initiatives to yield better
performance and skills in grassroots institutions to enable sounder management of financial
resources.



-22-
PARI H -PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    _roiect Desian and Orzanizatipn
1.1.   Since  1975,  the  World  Bank   has   been
supporting agricultural investments in the country
through general lines of credit to ARDC/National
Bank.    These  projects  (ARDC  I  to   IV)  have
contributed to the improvement in agricultural
production   and   productivity   levels   besides
improving the income levels of farmers th.ough
creation  of productive investments.   Unlike  the
earlier projects which supported the credit linked
programmes   of  agricultural  development,   this
project was designed to focus specific attention
for  strengthening  the  credit  institutions   by
remedying  their  major  weaknesses,   apart  from
supporting programmes for increasing agricultural
production, rural incomes and employment.
1.2. The project was originally submitted to the
World Bank in 1983 for a general line of credit
from IDA for US$ 400 M. and intended to support a
two year time slice (1984 and 1985) of NB's
lending programme.  In view of the major  problems
in the agricultural credit sector, especially poor
recoveries, the World Bank did not consider the
project for sanction at that time.  After a series
of discussions between the NBI GOI and World Bank.
the project was finally approved by WB only ixn
1986. During this intervening period a number of
supervisory missions from WB held discussion3 with
NB and GOI on various issues on agricultural
credit system. Based on these discussions, the
pi.lot project and the training programmes were
developed and made components of the project.
There was a gap of about 2 yea3_ between the
completion of ARDC IV and approval of NB CP-I.



- 23 -
1.3.  While  the  support' from  the  World   Bank
continued to be by way of a general line of
credit. the proJect design was innovative in two
respects.   The  pilot project for  improving  the
credit  delivery system was an innovative  attempt
to   adapt   the  well-known  Benor   system   for
agricultural extension. It was designed to tackle
effectively the internal causes of overdues in the
banks and improve recoveries. The second was the
constitution of a Task Force to improve the
quality  of lending  of a massive   credit-.Linked
poverty  alleviation programme, viz.   IRDP.   The
establishment of such a Task Force at the National
level was aimed at assessing the operational
procedures while the Planning & Review groups at
the   district  level  aimed  at   improving   the
coordination    within   the    bankink    sector.
maint` ning  closer  control  over  planning   a,,d
implementation at the district and block levels
and tightening the monitoring and evaluation of
IRDP loans.
1.4.  The  total assistance under the proJect  was
US$ 375 M. of which US$ 350 M was to support  NB's
lending programme for 3 years and US$ 25 M. by way
of a grant for agricultural credit review, pilot
project and training programme. The amount of US$
350 M. formed about 9% of NB's total refinancing
programmes.   The main obJective  of  the  project
was to strengthen the agricultural credit system
and  improve the quality of credit delivery.   The
pilot project and the training components were
meant for effecting substantial improvement in
these areas.
1.5. However, the coverage of 16 districts under
the pilot project was insufficient considering the
wide  variations   in  economic  development   and
banking spread over different regions of the
country.    Taking   into   account   the    local



- 24 -
conditionz. different approaches have to be  tried
in different regions for strengthening the credit
delivery  system.   This was not built into    the
project.   For  the rehabilitation of  weak  banks
also, a 3:year period was not long enough to bring
about adequate results. A longer term programme
which could be continued under subsequent projects
should have been attempted.
1.6.    The   roles   and   responsibilities    of
institutions   and   agencies  involved   in   the
implementation of the project were incorporated in
the agreements between GOI and WB and the NB and
WB.   The  role  of  National  Bank  as  an   apex
institution   was   well  defined  in   terms   of
initiating and implementing the programmes aimed
at improving quality of lending, recovery, follow-
up of loans during post-sanction and other aspects
of  institutional  development.   In  the    pi'ot
scheme.   National   Bank  was   re3ponsible   far
initiating action for implementation, providing
guidance to participating banks on field training
and for overall monitoring and evaluation of the
scheme. The first supervisory mission, under the
project. (April 1986) had commented that NB alone
cannot  achieve project objectives without  strong
support of senior management of the participating
banks, State Governments and GOI. This aspect was
evident during the implementation of the project
as the progress under Comp.B, which was under NB's
control was quite good whereas there was delay in
implementation  of  the, pilot  project  and   the
Agricultural Credit Review Committee report.
2.   Po.4ect Tmnlementation
2.1.  Tle-implementation of the Project  generally
proceeded  as scheduled except the  pilot  project
component.   This component was slow to  take  o'ff
and the project could finally be extended to only



- 25 -
16 districts instead of 20 districts as originally
planned.  The main constraint was the inability of
the participating banks to position the required
staff due to a general ban on recruitment of staff
by the GOI.   On account of delay in extending the
project to more districts, it was decided that it
would   be  -better   to   concentrate   on    the
implementation of the project in the already
identified  districts rati'er  than making  efforts
in   getting  it  extended  to   more   districts.
Consequently, the financial allocation under this
component had to be reduced from the original US$
25  M tolJUS$ 12 M. by transferring the  amount  to
the refinancing and training components.
2.2.   It  is  to  be  recognised   that   project
objectives can be reached in a stable external
environment. Unfortunately, unprecedented drought
during 1987-83 affected nor only recovery but also
the flow of credit for diversified purposes under
schematic lending and special measures were needed
to provide relief to the affected farmers because
of the severity of the drought. Considering the
drought situation and the need for additional
funds,   World  Bank  favourably   responded   and
increased the amount of 2nd tranche from US$ 80 K.
to US$ 150 M. by reducing the 3rd and 4th
tranches. Delays in identification of experts for
undertaking   studies  under  ACR  led   to   late
submission of draft reports in two of the five
studies.   Subsequently, World  Bank  waived   the
condition of submission of draft reports of two
studies for disbursement of the 2nd tranche.
3. Proiect results
3.1.  The project had two main  objectives.  viz.,
(1) -o strengthen the credit delivery system and
impro've the quality of credit delivery and '2)  to
increase agricultural production, rural incomes



- 26 -
and   employment   with  continued   emphasis.  on
assistance to'small farmers. The second objective
of   increased  production  of  foodgrains(2.2   M
tonnes),  milk  (2  Billion  litres),  eggs   (3.5
Billion)and meat (4.2 M Kgs) was achieved to a
large extent. The realisation of lower production
of foocfgrains than that envisaged (4.3 Kg. tonnes)
could  possibly  be  due  to  over-estimation   of
benefits  at the appraisal stage.  As regards  the
first objective, viz. institutional development
and strengthening of credit delivery system. it
covers several aspects such as augmentation of
resources  of banks,,diversification  of  lending,
improving of quality of lending. improving the
skills of staff of banks. improvements in credit
delivery  and rehabilitation of weak  banks.   The
achievements of National Bank in all these areas
except recovery and rehabilitation of weak banks
have been quite satisfatAury.  The achievements in
recovery   and   rehabilitation  have   not   been
satisfactory because of various external factors.
3.2. The objectives of the project did not change
during the project implementation. The pattern of
disbursements under the project was broadly in
line   with  the  plan.   There   were,   however.
deviations in respect of a few of the investments.
The disbursements under IRDP were lower (19.8%)
than that anticipated (31.5%) mainly because of
exclusion of ISB component of IRDP from coverage
under the project. If ISB were also reckoned, the
achievement agrees with the anticipated level.
The share of MInor Irrigation and Land Development
together  worked  out  at  32.2%   of  the   total
disbursements under the project as against the
estimated level of 29.2%. This has resulted from
implementation o- a (Rs.1,333 M) Massive  National
Programme of Assistance to small farmers and
marginal  farmers for creating assured sources  of
irrigation. The share of refinance disbursed for



- 27 -
Farm Mechanisation was 13.14% of the total and the
share of animal husbandry (dairy, poultry, sheep,
goat. etc) at 8.3% was almost double the estimate
at the time of appraisal (4.05%). This was mainly
due to the diversification of the loan portfolios
and investments. The share of disbursements in
respect of Plantation and Horticulture, Fisheries,
Storage and Market Yards, Forestry, Bio-gas and
rural   electrification  was  also   higher   than
anticipated   on  account  of  the  existence   of
potential and larger demand. In line with the
national   priorities,  National   Bank   extended
refinance support for rainfed farming. development
of wasteland and drought-prone areas and Non-farm
Sector but significant successes on these fronts
could not be achieved because of inadequacies of
infrastructure  including  forward  and   backward
link3ges whose availabil-ity depends upon budgetary
support from State Governments.
3.3. The impact of the project on various sectors
is given below: .
(a)   acrolSectoral growth and Policies
Continued discussions with World Bank Missions
helped in evolving policies of regulating credit
flow in accordance with national priorities and
long term potentials. There was increased credit
flow   to  small  farmers.   The   National   Bank
supported schematic lending which ensured orderly
exploitation of the available potential, creation
of   quality  assets  and  adoption  of   improved
technology  by  the  farmers.   The  thrust  areas
supported under the project were rainfed farming,
development of wasteland and drought prone areas.



- 28 -
(b)  Human Resources Develorment
Credit programmes supported under the project led
to recurring employrment of 524 M. mandays per year
and also helped self-employment and increasing
the skills of the people to manage assets.
(c) Physical EFrvironment
The project approach to lending ensured orderly
exploitation of the available potential. The NB
took initiative in 1987 for preparing district-
wise Potential Linked Plans (PLPs) for agricu_ture
and rural development. The basic objective of PLP
is   to   explore  the  existing   potential   for
development and evolve an appropriate rmechanism
through which such potential could be exploited
over  a specific period of time.   This  envisages
ei. LjrnIa:ion  of long term potential in each  sector
of   agriculture   and  rural   development   with
reference to the natural and human resources
available in a district for exploitation after
detailed  study  of  the  data  available,   field
studies and interaction with government officials
and district level banks. The potential is then
lirnked to the credit plans through a series of
steps and the physical potentials are translated
into credit projections taking into account the
bankability and viability of the programme for
development   as   well  as  the   strengths   and
weaknesses -f credit institutions.
The NB has also been supporting schemes like
Social Forestry which help in rejuvenation of the
en- ronmen t.
(d'l T;chno'ogical Environrment
In the matter of technology upgradation. the NB
has  been  testing  the  bankability  of   various



- 29 -
technologies   evolved  by  the  ICAR  and   other
research bodies and prescribing guidelines to the
banks for project formulation of new investments.
From its R&D Fund. the NB has been supporting
projects for adaptive research in areas relevant
to rural development and also for technology
transfer.
(e) Social Environment
The extent of coverage of small farmers was about
88%0 of the total beneficiaries financed under the
project as against the project stipulation of  60%
which confirmed the deliberate bias of the project
in favour of weaker sections of society.
fA ; Credit Tnstitutions
The credit institutions expanded their volume of
business and improved the quality of lending. The
project  also  helped  them  in  upgrading   their
skills. State Governments provided the necessary
infrastructural support.
3.4. In retrospect, the project was a success on
many fronts although there were weak points in
some areas. The major areas of success were as
follows:
National Bank could step up the credit flow for
agriculture and rural development and promote
capital  formation  in  Farm  and  other   related
Sectors. thus contributing to the increase in
agricultural   production.   rural   income    and
employment.. The pilot project also succeeded in
de.onstrating the effectiveness of improved bank-
borroier contact on recoveries and upgradation of
skills  of  the bank staff in handling  the  loans
pcrtfolio.   The setting up of an IRDP Task  Force
and P & R groups had contributed to substantial
improvement in the quality of lending and evolving



-30-
new  approaches  for-financing under  IRDP.   This
approach brought about better coordination among
banks, Government of India. State Governments. and
National Bank.and a greater adoption of a project
approach  to sLh mass lecding.  The  operational
issues identified through DOM studies were sorted
out  and remedial measures were initiated  by  the
concerned  banks and the State  Governments.   The
training   programmes  under  the   project   were
successfully carried out and the staff of National
Bank   and  participating  banks   were   imparted
training aimed at enhancing the quality of lending
and improving recoveries. Following a review of a
study   group  of  the  training  activities   and
management  of  BIRD. the BIRD is  being  made  an
autonomous  institution  to  emerge  as  an   apex
institution of excellance in imparting training
for rural bankers.
3.5. The areas of relatively unsatifactory results
were the inability to use National Bank's clout ts
implement   the  rehab-i-itation   programme   more
vigorously and to use the eligibility criteria as
a tool to improve recovery. Eligibility criteria
had proved to be effective to the extent of
regulating   the   flow  of   refinance   support.
However. much could not be achieved in these areas
due   to  the  external  environment   which   had
adversely affected both the rehabilitation and
recovery areas, as rightly observed by the
World Bank.
4. World Rank Performance
4.1. The World Bankr._ performance can be  assessed
under two brsad heads:
i) Pre-Project Per -,d
The immense preparatory work done by the Wvrld
Bank  before  NB  CP-I  was  formally  sanctioned,



- 31 -
greatly helped the National Bank in understanding
the   perspectives  of  the  World  Bank  arid   in
equipping   itself   with   the   required   data/
information for use by the successive World Bank
Missions.
The  review  Mission  on  ARDC-IV  had  felt  that
improvemient in the recovery position was important
to ensure future World Bank lines of credit to
National Bank. The World Bank also emphasised the
need for paying greater attention to the training
of   field   staff.    The   pilot   project   for
strengthening    credit   delivery   sys_em    was
accordingly   formulated  by  National  Bank   and
launched  in 3 districts in April 1984.   A  short
reorientation course for LDB Supervisors and Field
Staff with focus essentially on appraisal of
individual   loans,   maintaining   conttacts   and
nommunications  trith bcrrowers.  taking  follow-up
action on loans was designed to be conducted by
the LDBs. As it was recognized that key elements
of an effective credit delivery system were being
addressed under the scheme and the- preliminary
results  also  indicated  a  positive  impact   on
lending institutions' operations at village level.
World  Bank  decided  that  the  proposed   credit
project could finance an expansion of the pilot
scheme covering 17 new districts.
The January 1986 World Bank Mission referred to
the covenants of NB CP-I and in particular, those
relating to the guidelines on the rehabilitation
of weak PLDBs. monitoring and evaluation studies.
revised   eligibility   criteria,   training   and
preparation of long term manpower plan and desired
that a time bound action plan should be prepared
for  their implementation.  The  Mission  stressed
the need for formulation of a long term manpower
development in National Bank to cater to the
future   needs.   The  Mission  had   also   drawn
attention  to  thc  other  important  aspects   of



- 32 -
lending, rise in the level of overdues, inadequate
supervision in respect of sanctioned loans,  delay
in c.ompletion of case-by-case analysis, etc. The
World Bank made certain concrete suggestions in
the light of the above observations. The Mission
desired  that  National  Bank  should   constantly
review   its- investment   policies   and    make
appropriate changes.
ii) TMiementation Staa
The   World   Bank's  performance   during    the
implementation stage of CF_I was flexible and
sup;ortive  of  project  operations.   The   close
interaction and free and frank exchange of vie4s
between the World Bank and National Bank and the
flexible approach of the World Bank in solving
problems during the implementation period helped
the National Bank in achieving, to a very great
extant,  the prolj;t ojujectives and  in  complying
with the covenants of the proJect, as could be
seen from the following.
a) Release of Tranches
Due to the failure of monsoon during 1986-87,
India faced one of the severest droughts extending
over large parts of the country. Government of
India. Reserve Bank of India and the National Bank
announced various measures to meet the drought
situation. The World Bank appreciated the gravity
of the calamity which the country was facing and
extended a helping hand by increasing the quantum
of assistance under the second tranche from US$ 80
M to US$ 150 M and for waiving submission to the
Wcrld Bank of the draft reports on two of the five
studies under Agricultural Credit Review (ACR).  a
pre-condition  for  release  of  second   tranche.
Later on. based on the pace of utilisation of the
various components. the World Bank also agreed for
making   certain  reallocations  under  the   four
components of the project assistance.



- 33 -
b)  E1 ih ;ilitv Criter1a
In terms of Schedule rI of the Project Agreement
entered into under NB CP-I. the second phase of
the revised eligibility criteria was to come into
effect  from  1.1.1988.   On  the  basis  of   the
requests received from some of the LDBs as also
the National Cooperative Land Development Banks'
Federaticn to the effect that the introduction of
the second phase of of eligibility criteria might
be postponed to 1.7.1988, a decision was taken. in
consultation with the World Bank to the effect
that the second tranche of the revised eligibility
criteria could be advanced to 1.7.1987.   However,
keeping in view the acute drought conditions in 21
out  of the 25 States in the country,   the  World
Bank agreed in December 1987 for deferment of
upward revision in the recovery norms by 5 for
banks/branches   in  categories  II  to  IV   from
1.7.1987 to 1.7.1988.   The World Bank also agreed
for  introduction of a sliding  scale  eligibility
criteria   to   SCBs/DCCBs   from   1.7.1988,   as
applicable to lending units of CBs and LDBs.
c) Pilot Proiect ProgrAmme
The keen interest which the World Bank evinced in
the implementation of the pilot proj,ct  programme
as a maJor step in the institutional development
efforts,\ was a source of great strength to the
National Bank. 3esides closely associating itself
with the monitoring visits to -ssess -the progress
of the proJect implementation, the World Bank gave
certain   concrete  suggestions  in  shaping   the
proJect concepts and tools. The studies mounted
.by' the National Bank, through the forum of Joint
Working    Groups   consi5ting   of    a    senior
representative from the Rational -ank and the
World Bank to suggest the changes in.the  concepts
of  pilot  proJect  scheme and  to  introduce  the
needed flexibilities. helped the National Bank in
reshaping the pilot pioject to suit the ground



- 34 -
level requirements and felt needs and enabled the
participating banks in internalising the pilot
systems.   The World Bank's support to  the  pilot
related experiments particularly the one launched
in Kalahahdi District of Orissa State, (viz.the
Gram Vikas Development Society) and the support
extended for the concept of farmers clubs, etc.
are note-worthy.
5. flrru. Ps _reffirmAv
5.1. As far,as NABARD Credit Project (NB CP-I) is
concerned the National Bank's role has to be
viewed as a financial intermediary between GOI and
World Bank and as an Apex level Rural Credit
rnstitution.   The  performance  of  the  National
Bank,  therefore,  in  discharging  its   assigned
responsibilities in general and those u'4der the
proJect in particular should be viewed in the
light of the mandate available to the National
Bank   under  the  NABARD  Act,  1981,   NB   cp-r
agreements,    its   large    scale    operations,
complexities of issues connected with the rural
credit' and the influences which are outside the
control   of   the  National   Bank.
(i) Performance of 'iational Bank during
th  eyvolution of th  gro1iect
National Bank has been a 'conscientious borrower
committed    to    discharging    the       assigned
responsibilities  and has implermented the  project
with utmost sincerity with a-view to achieving the
desired objectives.. National Bank has also been
responsive to the recommendations and the remedial
actions suggested by the World Bank for reforming
the 'rural credit 'syste'i and the institutions
opi6rating thereunder..
National  Bank  had done the ground work  well  ibX
advance  for preparation and posing of the' NABARD
,    .  t;  .,  _   ., ~ ~  -.. .. .



- 35 -
Credit I proJect report. The various suggestions
and the recommended actions contained in the Aide
Memoire  of  the visiting Missions  of  the  World
Bank, during the evolution stage, were, promptly
responded to. The main objectives of the project
were   strengthening   the   agricultural   credit
delivery system and increasing the agricultural
production.   Strengthening  the  credit  delivery
system   involved  training  of  bank  staff   and
improvement in recoveries. The pilot project and
training components were built into the project
with these objectives in view.
(ii) Imnlementation stage
The National Bank could successfully implement the
project to achieve the objectives of strengthening
the   credit   delivery  ,.ystem   and   increasing
agricultural  production.   Only in the  areas  of
recovery   and   rehabilitation   of   the    weak
cooperative   banks  the  achievements  were   not
satisfactory c.ecause of certain external factors:
The progress made under the proJect was  regularly
reported to World Bank through periodic progress
reports.   The World Bank appreciated the  quality
of tkese reports and made certain suggestions for
making these more analytical, which were followed
up.
(a) Agricultura1 Credit Review
The  various  recommendations  made  by  the  ACRC
requiring  aetailed examination at various  levels
(NABARD, RBI, GOI) were promptly examined and
necessary   follow-up   action   was    initiated.
National  Bank was a member of the Task Force  set.
SAp  by  RBI  for  studying *the   recommendations.
Insofar as those recommendations on which Nationa-l-
BAnk  could initiate follow up  action,  necessary
guidelines 'were issued by it. *



- 36 -
(b) Schematic Lendinm
The entire credit of US$ 350 M. (revised) under
component B (Schematic Lending) was fully utilised
within   the  project   period.    National   Bank
acknowledges the helpful attitude of the World
Bank in releasing the asistance ahead of the
stipulations   contained   in   the    agreements,
consequenlt upon the severe drought situation faced
by the country in 1986-87.
(c) Eligibility Criteria
National Bank followed the eligibility criteria
norms  stipulated in the project  documents.   The
amendments   to  the  eligibility  criteria   were
effected  mainly  keeping  in  view  the   natural
calamities  that  occurred in  the  country.   The
criteria, at no point of time, was relaxed/diluted
by the National Bank.
td) Enforcing of financial discipline
using re kinance as a lever
National Bank has always looked upon its role as a
development   financing   institution   ultimately
aiming at bringing about credit discipline. and
upgrading the skills of the primary institutions
to become viable and vibrant.
In consultation with RBI. NB advised all SCBs and
SLDBs   in  November  1988  that  refinance   from
National Bank would be subJect to the compliance
of (i) regulations and instructions laid down by
RBI/National Bank relating to loans and interest
rates and these should not be contravened directly
or indirectly and (ii) the instructions issued by
RHI/    National   Bank   regarding    conversion,
rescheduling and deferment of loans.  Accordinglxy,
in 'December 1988, when the NB observed that in 9'
states an interest subsidy scheme was in vogue and
in 2 states the State Governments had written  off
tho' dues  across the board and  the  coopexatives
were  not  being  fully  compensated,  NB  stopped



- 37 -
providing refinance to cooperative banks in the
above  states.   The refinance  was  resumed  only
after the institutions furnished an undertaking to
the  effect  that  they  would  comply  with   the
instructions. Thereafter, wherever such breaches
were   observed.  NB  has  effectively  used   its
refinance clout in enforcing the credit discipline
stipulated by RBI/NB.
(e) Pilot Project for strengthening
th  Credit fleltver-  Svetem
National   Bank  implemented  the  pilot   project
programme in 16 districts, 3 districts in Phase I
and 13 districts in Phase II. It was not extended
to 4 more districts as envisaged under the project
keeping in view the need for concentrating the
monitoring efforts in the on-going districts.  The
iiability  of the banks to position  the  required
field  staff, as per the project  guidelines  also
deterred the National Bank from extending the
project  to  20  districts.  Being  an   extension
proJect.   the  proJect  bould  not  witness   the
expected   results  in  the  limited  time   frame
available. However, the concepts like building up
of an effective banker-borrower relationship, the
borrower   contact,  streamlining   the   internal
systems and procedures of lending institutions,
equipping the field staff with superior skills iA
appraising and monitoring the loan operations,
etc. helped largely in translating the non-cost
_project ideas into reality and-enabled the banks
in internalising the project systems and improving
the quality of loaning. In all these matters, the
World Bank's timely advice and its oillingneds to
introduce    into   the   proJect,   the    needed
flexibilities   helped   the  National   Bank   in
effectively  implementThgz  the  programme.   World
Bank also helped the National-Bank in, taking up
certain innovativ,e experiments like the linking of
self-help   groups  with  banking   system   (GVDS



- 38 -
experiment)  and  extension  of  support  to   the
Farmers   Clubs.   The World Bank had also,  on  a
request from National Bank. extended the pr.Dject
period to 31st March 1991.
(f)  RAhbiAtA ti Qn Programme
The most important aspect of the National Bank
Credit  ProJect-I   has  been  the   institutional
development efforts envisaged under the project
mainly aimed at the cooperatives. While the O&M
Studies  conducted  under  NB  Credit   Project-IV
formed the basis for initiating suitable remedial
action in respect of the weak SLDBs, National Bank
also attempted to devise the required packages for
revitalising the weak cooperatives and to nurture
them to health. The 15 Point Programme for the
development of PACs and LAMPs initiated under the
pilot  programme,  the  10  Point  and  12   Point
Programmes   for   the  rehabilitation   of   weak
PLDBs/SLDBs were some of the packages developed by
the  National  Bank'  for  the  cooperatives.    As
cooperatives are under the administrative and
ownership * control  of  State  Governments,   any
initiative to bring them back to health requires
support, both financial and logistical, from the
State Government side. The reluctance of the
State  Governments  to  undertake  the   financial
comumitment devolving on it because of severe
budgetary constraints was one of the major factors
which affected the successful implementation of
the   rehabilitation  programme.   The   political
interference at the state level and some of the
concessions/waivers   announced   by   the   State
Governments for cooperative dues, largely vitiated
the  recovery climate, and did considerable  damage
to the health of the Credit Delivery System.
Institutional development covers several aspects
such-at-ti) augmentation of resources of banks to
promote  development and increase their  business,
(ii)  diversification of lending. (iii)  improving



- .3q -
quality of lending, (iv) improving the skills *f
staff of the banks in project formulation and
implementation   through   training   and    other
assistance, (v) improvements in credit delivery
and rehabilitation of weak cooperative banks.  The
achievement of National Bank has been good in most
of these areas except rehabilitation and recovery
where the achievements have not been satisfactory
because of some external factors, as correctly
evaluated by the World Bank.
(g) ComDliange with Covenants
The NB complied with the various covenants of the
Project   Agreement.    There  was,   however,   a
disagreement between the World Bank and National
Bank   regarding  Section  2.03  of  the   Project
A.geement governing eligibility criteria. NB had
justified the exclusion of the loans extended to
Hlon-farm Sector and ISE component of IRDP from the
calculation  of  the  eligibility  criteria.   The
World Bank ha"4 indicated that the issue would oe
decided at the time of the approval of NB CP-II.
6. Project Relationship
6.1. The relationship between the World Bank and
National Bank throughout the project period was
cordial and characterised by mutual understanding.
Both  the  World  Bank' and  National  Bank   were
conscious of the development roles they were
expected to play and accordingly discharged  their
responsibilities.   There  was  close  interaction
with World Bank on all matters and this has
resulted  in  cross-fertilisation  of  ideas   and
agreement on strategies and approaches to achieve
the objectives. The World Bank's suggestions and
the remedial actions were welcomed by the National
Bank  and  these  were appreciated  in  the  right
perspective.    National   Bank   also   initiated
^asures to translate World Bank's recommendations



- 40 -
into  action.   While  some  of  the  actions   so
initiated showed results and helped in achieving
the project objectives. the others could not make
much headway due to constraints exogenous to the
National   Bank.    In  fairness  to   the   above
position, World Bank had appreciated as reflected
in its last Aide Memoire under the project as also
in the draft project completion report that the
components within the National Bank's control were
implemented satisfactorily.
The NB continues to consider its association with
World Bank as a partnership effort for fostering
reforms within the overall credit system, apart
from helping resource transfer to the country.
The relationship between the World Bank and the
National  Bank has been purposefu'  , development-
oriented and friendly during the entire project
period.
6.2  Proar-s  Reacrts
The National Bank submitted periodical progress
reports on the operations and activities under NB
CP-I to the World Bank through GOI. The quality
of progress reports was generally appreciated by
the World Bank. However, it was desS'red that
these   reports  shoul'd  be  more  analytical  and
indicate the institutional developme, c aspects for
better appreciation of the field level situation.
7. Prole_t a ntainAbi1itv
7.1. The maJor objective of the proJect was to
.strengthen the rural credit delivery system and
improve   the   quality   of   credit    delivery.
Specifically,  it  was  intended  that  it   would
initiate a series of institutional reforms in  the
credit  system in general and in National Bank  in



- 41 -
particular. A long-term strategy was. therefore,
to be evolved based on an indepth review of the
rural credit system through a committee of experts
commissioned during the implementation of the
project.   It  is  clear  that  such   qualitative
objectives can be achieved only over a period of
time and achieved in stages measured against
specific short-term objectives and time-frame.
Since both the internal and external factors
influence the operations of the banks and the
recoveries   of  loans  outstanding,   appropriate
strategies have to be worked out in each of these
proJects to tackle both the factors simultaneously
so as to have the maximum impact. In that sense.
proJect sustainability as the obJective is a long-
term one.
7.2.    The  second  objective  was  to   increase
agricultural   production,   rural   income    and
employment   while  continuing  the  emphasis  or.
assistance  to small farmers.  In a  country  like
India, Agriculture and non-farm sector in the
rural  areas  will  have  to  be  given   greatest
priority in all developmental efforts in future
not   only   to  improve   the   productivity   of
agriculture for meeting the voodgrains needs of
the growing population but also for absorbing the
growing   labour   force  in  the   rural   areas.
Considering the long gestation period and high
cost and delays in commissioning major irrigation
projects, etc., private'capital formation through
credit linked programmes for promoting the private
investments   for   increasing   productivity   of
agriculture has been one of the maJor strategies
adopted for promoting rural development in our
country.   This objective also has to  be  pursued
for  considerable length of time so as to  improve
the .economic status of the rural poor  and  small.
farmers.



- 42 -
7.3. The anticipated level of benefits from the
investments   supported  under  the   project   is
expected to be realised throughout the economic
life  of  the  assets.   The  benefits  from   the
implementation  of  the  pilot  project  like  the
awareness of the banks about the efficacy of
improved bank-borrower contact will be useful to
the  banks.   Although the implementation  of  the
ARDR scheme had an adverse effect on the  recovery
position of the banks during  1989-90 and 1990-91.
the  situation  is  expected to  improve  and  the
effects  of  the pilot project  will  be  manifest
through improved recoveries in the coming years.
8. Levsons leArnt
8.1. Rurtl Crerdit Finanninf
Though  the  World  Bank's  and  other   bilateral
assistance received under NB CF-I formed about 10%
of the aggregate schematic investments refinanced
by NB. NB was immensely beneZitted in aspects
other  than  financial  matters  also  -  by   the
association  of  World Bank in the  Project.   The
World Bank's timely advice through its Supervisory
Missions helped NB in shaping its policies and
operations for rAndering the rural credit as an
effective instrument in the country's development
.process. The general lines of credit like NB CP-I
with in-built flexibilities were fouad to be more
beneficial to the large developing countries like
India, as compared to state specific projects.
8.2. Pilot proJect for strengthening
the rural crwedit deiselilv rvstem
The  Pilot  proJect  has  demonstrated  that   for
efficiently serviclng the growing volume of rural
* credit and a larger number of small accounts the
type. of  inputs envisaged under the  project  are
absolutely essential. Some of the inputs in terms



- 43 -
of additional manpower, mobility thrc lgh vehicles
involving definite cost will have to be met if the
quality of lending portfolio and supervision over
end-use of credit and adequate recovery of loans
through frequent borrower contacts etc., are to be
continuously maintained at a very high level.
8.3. Rehabilitation of weak Cooperatives
NB is convinced that the implementation of any
institutional   development  programme  like   the
rehabilitation programme for the weak- coWperatives
would require full commitment and consensus of all
the    parties   concerned   mainly   the    State
Governments, under whose administrative and legal
contr,l  the  cooperatives  function.   NB   alone
cannot implement these programmes without the
wholehearted   support   from   the   implementing
agencies  themselves.   The ACRC has said  in  its
report  that  there is an imperative  need  for  a
strong political will and a general consensus
among various political parties to give up misuse
of the agricultural credit system as a means for
achieving political ends, restore the sanctity of
credit institutions and allow them to function as
autonomous banking institutions. The Government
of India along with State Governments should chalk
out a concrete long term policy, supportive of the
efforts of the rural credit system for recovery of
their dues. avoiding all extraneous consideration
and taking firm and objective view in respect of
wilful  defaulters.   GOI is well seized  of  this
matter.
8.4. Eliibility Criteria
The basic objective of the eligibility criteria
was to bring about an awareness on the part of the
banks about the need for improving their recovery
performance through the instrumentality of the



- 44 -
varying  access co the refinance from. NB.   While
the criteria has successfully worked in limiting
the  resource of the basi:s to NB _refihrance.  by
itself  it  could  not bring  about  the  uLltimate
objective.   In  that  sense.  the   criteria   by
itself     cannot tone up or tighten up the  rural
.credit  systerm  as  several  other   institutional
deveiopr(enet    measure.   I have   to    be    taken
sirnultaneously  in this regard.  The  ACERC  report
has commmented in this regard that whiile the
objective of irnproving the recoveries is no  doubt
laudable. the problern needs to be attacked through
maore  direct measures includicling sanctions  against
defaulters.  especially  the  wilful   defaulters,
rather  than choking the conduits of credit  which
is self-defeating.
The  ACRC  recormmendations   provided  1.long   term
strategy    for  strengthening  the  rural   credit
delivery system. However, the structural changes
envisaged cannot be brought about without a strong
political commitmrent especially for autonomy of
credit  institutions and their  viability.   These
recommendations  are being examined by the GOI  at
the highest level.



- 45 -
PAR&T M - STATISITCAL 1ABLES
Table 1 - Project with External Aid - Posidon of Completed/Closed Projects
Table 2 - Project Time Table
Table 3 - Project Cost and Financing
Table 4 - nterest Rates
Table 5 -                  - Fnancial Progress
Table 6 - Fmancial Progress by Purpose-Wise Lending
Table 7 - Purpose-Wise Financial Outay by NABARD
Table 8 - State-Wise Grund Level Investment Cost Supported with Refinance from
National Bank
Table 9 - Disbursement by Component
Table 10 - Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
Table 11- Disbursement Profile - Yearwise
Table 12 - Project Benefits
Table 13 - Financial and Economic Rate of Returns - SAR Estimates and Actual
Table 14 - Mission Data
Table 15 - Staff Inputs
Table 16 - Status of Covenants
Chart 1 - Estimated and Actual Disbursement



Pl';C..'F-T' W3TIT  ":TERNAL All, - P'OSITION O! C0M!'LE7E:.'zz_,OSrV PROJECTS
________-__J_C_T_--------- ---- CRED1T/----_E___C__1____________0______ -----1 O -_______---0___________-,--- D_S_P_._._B_Y___________- __C___t _T_ _E _P__A _T____ __1 __6_V ______
S. S~O.    PROJECTS             CREOIT/   EFfECTIVE  CLOSED           TOTAL   OF 'VNICI!  DIS8. SV    D1SB. DY COt'1TERPART  RE1MlP.BS1-
LOAt. NO.  FkO-:     or.           tXTERKAI    TllROVC0   PARTICIP        ARDI FUtNDS CECE- tSENIZ RE EIV.
ASSIST.      ARDC/      -ATING      SADARD IVED FROM    BY GOT AGAIS
1.AD)ADI    bANNS              GO!
It; US S MILLION
A. GENERAL LINE OF CREDIT
I ARDC - 1                  540       AUG/75      DEC/77          75.00      75.00    1381.60       2229.50        782.50    .S.o0
2 AROC - II                 *15       AUG/B       DEC/79         200.00     200.00    36J3.90       237;.50        1630.00   200.00
3 AROC - III                947       JAN/80      DEC/8e         250.00     250.00    5.71.00       4391.90       2086.20   250.00
4 ARKDC - IX                1209/     MIAV/82     MAR/84         350.00     350.00   10012.00       8810.30       3436.60   350.00
209S
SUB-TOTAL - A                                                      875.00     875.00   20197.50    i6809;20          7935.30   8T5.0
B. MULTI-STATE PROJECTS
S INTEORATED COTTON DEV.  6S0         AUG/76      DEC/84          18.00      I5.00      208.20       177.30         331.60    14.90
6 NATIONAL SEEDS 1          1273      OCT/76      DEC/84          25.00      18.20      191.00       159.00         157.00    18.20
7 NATIONAL SEEDS II         816       OCTI79      DEC/8s          16.00      14.50      158.00       137.00        137.00    IS.10
8 "ULTI-STATE CASHEW        1012      SEP/80    *iAR/St           22.00      13.70      275.10       150.14         94.50      8.40
8 INLAND FISHERIES          963       MAY/80      SEP/88-         20.00      12.00      306.60      270.10         146.20    11.70
SUB-TOTAL - B                                                      101.00      73.40    1037.90        893.54        666.30    68.30
C. AGRI. CREDIT PROJECTS
10 AP AGRI. CREDrT          226        MAY/71     JUN/77          24.40       24.40      316.00      253.30         192.00    24.20
11 BIHAR AGRI. CREDIT       440        MAR/74     MAR/80           32.00      32.00    6.5.00        434.80         260.90    32.00             a'
12 OUJARMT AORI. CREDIT      191       SEP/70     MAR/75           35.00      34.70      464.60      386.80    ,   260.80    34.70
23 HARYANA AGRI. CREDIT     249        NOV/71     JUN/77          25.00       25.00      464.00      321.80         214.00    25.00
14 KARNATAKA AGRI. CREDIT   278        SEP/72     JUN/77          40.00       40.00      521.00      433.80         326.50    40.00
15 KERALA AFRI. CREDIT      680        JUN/77      SEP/86          30.00      26.70      386.20      426.00         265.00    26.70
16 MP AORI. CREDIT           391       OCT/73.    DEC/76           33.20      33.20.-   504.20       439.80         285.30    33.20
17 1AHARASHTRA AGRI. CREDIT 293        JAN/73      JUN/76         30.00       28.10      408.00      363.10         255.80    25.40
18 PUNJAB ACRI CREDIT       203        SEP/70     JUN177          27.50       27.50      323.00      243.40         218.00    27.50
19 TAHILNADU ACRI. CREDIT   250        NOV/71     DEC/77          35.00       31.00     400.00       352.90         252.60    31.00
20 UP ACRI. CREDIT           392       OCT/73      DEC/77          38.00      38.00      577.00      500.10         340.60    38.00
21 WB AGRI. CREDIT           541       AUG/75     MAR/SI           34.00      15.00      286.00      267.10         183.36    21.60
SUB-TOTAL - C                                                     384.10      355.60    5115.00      4422.90        3054.80   359.30
D. IRRICATION&CAD PROJ8CTS
22 AP IRRIC. I CAD           1251      SEP/76     JUN/85         145.00       .9.10     177.00-      151-10          97.20      9.10
23 HARYANA IRBIG I          843        DEC/7i     JUN/83         111.00       41.40     490.30       402,90         .208.40    23.20
-24-KARNATAKA-IRRIO;--t      188       APRIT8      HARMSI         11.6       7T.Wd       61.00         4.50           2.50      0.20      
25 NAHARASNTRi-IRRIO.-I     -736       APR/7?     MAR/84          70.00        5;0       61.00        44.20          13.60      1.30  
26 PUNJAB IRRIG I           889        JUN/79     JUN/86         129.00       58.36    1266.30      1249.40         630.40    57.10       0
27 RAJASTHAN ICHIAMBAL3 CAD  1011      DEC/74     JUN/83          12.00        6.36      82.30        67.70          29.30      5.80
28 RAJASTIIAN CANAL CAD     502        DEC/74     JUN/83          22.50       22.58     194.30       238.00         229.60    22.50          F
29 HP (CIIAHBAL) CAD        562        SEP/75     JUN/81          24.00    - 0.30        83.40
SUB-TOTAL - D                                                     631.10      145.60    2415.60      2157.80        1211.00   119.20
--------



N CO.   PROJECTS              CREDIT/  EFFECTIVE  CLOSED          TOTAL   OF WHICH   DISB. BY   DISB. BY COUNTERPART  REIMBURSE-
LOAN NO.  FROH       ON          EXTERNAL    TIIROUGW  PARTICIP       ARDC/ FUNDS RECE- HENT RECEIV.
ASSIST.      ARDC/     -ATINO      NABARD IVED FROM    BY 0cI AoAIt
NABARD      BANKS             G01
IN US $ MILLION
H MARKET PROJECTS
30 BIHAR AGRI. MArF.eT YARDS 294      JUL/72     DEC/79          14.80      13.80     175.10      157.70        116.60    13.80
31 KARNATAKA AGiI. MARKETS  37a       SEP/73     JUN/81          8.00        7.90      82.00       65.40         64.60     ?.90
SUB-TOTAL - B                                                    22.80       21.70     257.30     .223.10        181.20    21.70
FISHERIES
32 AP FISlERIE9             815       OCT/79     SEP/84         17.50        3.90      15.30       12.00          6.40     0.70
33 GUJJARAT FISHERIES       m?d/      JUL/77     JUN/84         18.00       4.70      30.50        24.40         13.40     1.60
"85
3SU-TOTAL - F                                                    35.50       8.B0      45.80        36.40         19.80     2.30   >
H 0ORTICULTURE
j4 IIP APPLE PROC.&NKTO.    456       SEP/74     DEC/81         13.00       5.40      57.40        51.90         32.00     0.20
J&K HORTICULTURE         806       JAN/79     JUN/86          14.00     - 9.60     89.50        76.10         56.50     5.20
iUD-T TAL  - 0                                                   27.00      15.00     146.90      128.00          88.50     5.40
STATE PROJECT - OTHERS                                                                                                    5
36 TARAI SEEDS (UP)         614       SEP/69     DEC/77         13.00       9.00      36.50        19.50         19.50     1.10
37 EARNATAKA 8ERICULTURE    1034      DEC/80     JUN/88         54.00       3.10      77.00        75.44         36.90     3.10
;UB-TOTAL - 11                                                   67.00      12.10     113.50       94.94         56.40      4.20
;RAND TOTAL                                                    2143.60    1607.00   29329.60    247B6.88      13213.30  1456.40
510
--------- --------- --------- -----  --- --------- --------- -------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------- --------
0i -.



- 48 -
Table 2
PROJECTTIME-TABLE
ACTIVMES           DATE PLANNED      ACTUAL DATE
1. IDENTIFICATION/                          April 1983-1984
PREPARATION
2. APPRAISAL                                Dec, 1984
3. BOARD DATE                               Feb 25, 1985
4. SIGNINGDATE                              May 28, 1986
5. EFFECTVENESS                             Sep 16, 1986
6. COMPLErKON             Jun 30, 1989      Dec 31, 1990
7. CLOSING DATE           Dec 31, 1989      Jun 30, 1991



PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
I IN RG MILLION)
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-------------------------------------------
COMPONENT                         APPRAISAL ESMATES                       ACAL                  * OF AMUAL TO SAR ESTIMTE
LOCAL    FOR,EIGN    TOTAL       LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN... TOTAL
A - AGRICULTURE CREDIT    - 19.20        22.80       42.00      18.45      14.51   .  -32,96    -4         -36       -22
REVIEW
B - SCHEHATIC LENDI.NG      f3865.70   5023.20  58988.90  52368.00                  52368.00    -3        -100       -11
- PILOT PROJECT            270.00      30.00    300.00    206.81                    200.ii    -23       -ib       -31
D - TRAINING                  62.40      16.60 -   78.00    161.33         2.10       163.43    159        -87       110
TOTAL                  54217.30   5091.60  59308.90  62754.59    16.61   52771.20    -3              -100       -11
________________--  _____________________________________________________________________--       ________________________________-----
PROJECT COST AND FINANCINO
,    INNS * MILLION)
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__------------------------------------------
COMPONENT               AiPRAISAL ESTIlATES               ......... ACTUAL      X        OP ACTUAL TO SAR BSTIHATBS
LOCAI.   FOREIGN    TOTAL        LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---__------------------------------------------
A - AGRICULTURE CREDIT         1.60      1.90       3.50        1.36       0.94         2.30    -15        -51       -34
REVIEW
B - SCIIENATIO LENDING       4488.90   418.60-   4907.50   3703.83 -                 3703.83    -17       -100       -25
C - PILOT PROJECT             ,22.80     2.60       25.00       12.00              -  12.00    -47        -100       -52
D - TRAINING                  5.20       1.30       6.50       10.57      0.13         10.70    103        -90       65
TOTAL                   418.20   424.3U       1942.S0   3727.76    -3.0?-    -312S:.83    -17-      -100       --25  -
NOTE: A, C AND D ARE GRANTS.
IN THE CASE OF SCUHEATIC LENDINO (PART B), TIIE WORLD DANK'S SNARE OF DISBURS8MENT IS AROUND 9.5%.
TIIR DIFFERENCES IN X INCREASE/DECREAft  FIGURES COMPARING RS. AND US * ARE DUE TO VARIABLE EXCHANGE RATES.
NON-SCHEHATIC LENDINO OMITTED BECAUSE SUCH LENDING WAS FINANCED EXC.JUSlVELY WITH NABARD RESOURCES.
SEE TABLE 6.



(C)  SoIm:kTIC Lbt;s                 Interest Rates
Existing       Revised             Effective data for revision
Pre-revilsed
1.  Minor Irrigation and              10.25(prior   10%                 For loans sanctioned on or
Land Development               to 1.4.83)                          after 1.4.03
2.  IRDP                              10.25           10%
3.  Sgall Faaners                     10.25           10%
4.  Others                            12.50           12.S%
5.  Watershed-based rainfed fanminc
a)Sa1l FaI rers                      10*OO(prior                      with ef ect fron 28.4.87
to    110.00 for all
b )Oeher Faniers                     12.50 28.4.871   fanrers
6.   aste!and Deve lopment
a ) Individuals:Srnall Fa-nners      10.00           10.00 for all   with efEect frcm 12.2.8?
Cth e r Fa rme rs    ;2.50               f a rne rs
b )Corporate borrowers               12.50           12.5%
I.  REC/$iA Schemes
Bank to SEBs                      10005%          11.5%            with effect from 1.4.99
3.  a/ Upto and inclusive of                          100.00
b 750C
b : Over !.7500 and upto                         11.50
Rs. 15000
c) Over  *.1;3000 and upto                        12.00            with effect fiom 22.9.93
Ts. 2 500 i'
d) Over s.25.'0 and upto                          13.0Q
Rs. 53. 
e) Ov . .;'3r                                     4 230                                        1 g
OQIg.
F I-
IS



Existing         Revised          Effective date for revision
9.  All types o ' loans
a)  Upto and inclusive of Ps.7500/-      10 %            10.0              4th July 1991
B)  Over Lq.7,500/- and upto
Rs.15,00/-                          11.5 Ye         11.5
c)  Over Rs.15,000/- and upto
Rs.25,000/-                          12 %            12.0
d)  Over Rs.25,000/- and upto
R.50.000/-                          13 %
e)  Over R .s, 000/-                      14.0           14.o
10. All types of loans
1)  upto and inclusive of Fs.7,500/-    10.0             11.5              9th October 1991
2)  Over Fs.7,iOO/- and upto Rs.15000/-  11.5             13.0
3)  Over rs.15.000/- anc upto
Rs.2 , 000/-                         12.0            13.5
4)  Over e;.25,000 and upto
Ps.50, 000/-                          13.0            t4-o
5)  Over as. O, COO/- and upto
F.. 2 lakhs                          1.                -
6)  Over  -...2 lakhs                     14 ot
(Minimum)
In "I



- 52 -
Table 5
TRAINING COMPONENT - PINANCIAL PROGRE3S a/
IN Re. HILLION
-------------------------------------------__----------------------------------------
PARTICULARS                                 SAR             ACTUAL         X IN(CRuASiO
ESTIMATE                            DECREASE
OVBR SAR
1. SENIOR/MIDDLE LEVEL TRAINING           26.04             21.74               -13
2. JUNIOR LEVEL TRAINING                  32.39              17.93              -45
3. VVV TRAINING PRORAHS                   0.00               2.44
4. IRDP                                    1.21               0.00              -100
S. OVERSEAS TRAtNING COST8                 0.80               1.64              168
S. TRAINING DIVI*ION zSTAnLISMIENT&        11.40            21.13                08
TRAININQL AT BRAD/REGIONAL OFFICES
7. TRAINING AT BIRID                      20.21              16.42               -li
S. TRAINING AT RTC, BOLPUR                 5.83              9.6? 78
9. TRAINING AT RTC, MANGALORE              7.86               8.47                 B
10. TRAINING AT NBSC, LUCKNOW              4.04             13.96               246
11. OPENING OF NEW RTC    '                4.57              0.00              -10
TOTAL_                                    113.35            113.10        -    D.O4
________ _____.____ ___ __ _  S _ __ __:______________- -------     ------------_
,/ Loan, funds available for training were increased from US$6.6 million to
US$10.7 million.



Table 6
FINANCIAL PROORESS BY PURPOSE-WISE LENDING
IN Rs MILLION)
COMPONMNT                   SAR              ACTUAL    % INCREASE/
ESTIMATE                    DECREASE OVER
SAR
1. SCHEMATIC LENDING
MINOR IRRIGATION&      18845              16095          -15
LAND DEVELOPMENT
FARM MECEANIZATION     9422               11956           27
IRDP                   19433              12657          -35
OTERM DIVERSIFIED      11189              l1660             4
ACTIVITIES                                4. ,.
TOTAL SCHEMATIC LENDING    58889              52368           -11
2. NON-SCHEMATIC LENDING   4958               10968           121
GRAND TOTAL          63.047             63336           -1
NOTE: ONLY 9.5% Ot .-E TOTAL SCHEMATIC LENDING IS DISBURSED BY THE WORLD BANK-
IN THE CASE OF NON-SCHEMATIC LENDING, THERE IS NO DISBURSEMENT FROM THE
WORLD RANK.



- 54 -
Table 7
PURPOSE-WISE FINANCIAL OUTLAY BY NABARD'S
IN Rs MILLION)
.    -----                - -
COMPONENT                           1RDP       NON-iRDP      TOTAL       X SHARE
OF GRAND
TOTAL
I. MINOR IRRIGATION                  1747        26283        28030       44.3
II. LAND DEVELO?MENT                  54          770          824         1.3
III. DRYLAND FARMING                              10           10          0.0
IV. FARM MECBANIZATION
A. TRACTORS                                  11688        11688       18.5
B. TUESNERS                                   112          112         0.2
C. POWER TILLERS                              156          156         0.2
SUB-TOTAL                                    '11956       11956       18.9
V. LIVESTOCK
A. DAIRY                         4638         2167        6805         10.7
B. POULTRY-LAYERS                  62         1440         1502         2.4
C. POULTRY-BROILERS               48           141          189         0.3
D. PIGGERY                         248          7           255         0.4
E. SHEEP/GOAT                     1676         311         1987         3.1
SUB-TOTAL                        6672         4066        10738        17.0
VI. FISHERY
A. INLAND                         315         461          776         1.2
B. MARINE                                     451         451          0.7
C. FISHING NETS                  41                       41           0.1
SUB-TOTAL                        356          912         1268         2.0
VII. PLANTATION&hORTICULTURE          186        3088         3273         5.2
VIII. FORESTRY                                    715          715         1.1
IX. BIO-GAS PLANTS                               1135         1135         1.8
X. MARKET YARDS                                   341          341         0.5
XI. STORAGE                                      1134         1134          1.8
XII. ANIMAL DRIVEN CARTS             2550                     2550         4.0
XTII. WORK ANIMALS                    653                      653          1.0
XIV. OTHERS                           439         268          707          1.1
CRAND-TOTAI                       12657       50679        63336       100.0
_______________________ -------------......................................... -------------------------------------- -----------



- 55 -
N.
Table 8
State-ise 6round level Investment Cost
Suooorted with Refinance froe National Bank'
*  -          -      {~*   Rs. in lI.)l
State               Ground Level Investment Cost                              Refinance
IROP  'HI nd LD' Vther Purposes# lotal    IRDP  -HI and LDO  Other Puroosest  lotal                %
(1)              (2)        (3)          1t)           (5)      (6)        (7)           (8)          (9)
Jamu I Keshair              277.6                       155.9    333.5       95.6                        99.3    194.9       0.5
Punjab (1)                 .585.3      923.5           t187.9   5696.8    319.2        703.3          2192.1   3216.6        8.8
Haryana (2)                 492.9       792.2          2255.9   3561.0    305.3        573.6          1118.0   1996.9        5.5
Hitachal Prodesh           139.2          2.9           109.0  . 251.1      80.8        1.9             73.1    155.4       0.4
Rajasthan                  717.7        897.7          1335.1   2950.7    *31.6        625.7           640.3   1697.1       4.6
Assn/NiE States             381.3       350.8           512.0   1277.1    199.6        215.7           333.2    768.5       2.1
Bihar                       695.1     1503.2            683.7   2682.D    387.6        967.5           360.6   1695.5       4.6
vest Bengal                 692.8       304.7           977.3   1776.8    269.2        226.5           567.6   1063.3       3.0
Orissa                      606.0       167.9           538.7   1292.7    357.8        120.5           326.0    802.3       2
Uttar Pradesh             2359.5      3092.0           3013.1   8W66.6   1312.2       2282.6          1318.7   '913.5    13.5
nadhya Pradesh              523.7      1211.3          2766.2   4531.2    320.         762.1          1318.5   2411.5       6.6
Gujarat                    705.8        579.0          2369.6   3634.3    615.8        432.1          l013.8   1862.0       5.1
naherashtra(3)              938.1     2076.9           6352.6   7366.1    525.9       1679.3          1920.9   4126.1      113
Andhra Pradesh              967.9     1369.1           1961.6   7238.6    550.2       1105.1          2386.2   4061.!      11.1
Karnataka                   932.9      1663.7          2690.0   5286.6    525.6       1282.3          1588.7   3396.6       93
lall Nadu (6)             1570.2       626.9          2556.0   6751.2    887.9         407.6          1338.5   2636.0       72
Kerala                      387.6       545.0          1330.7   2263.2    221.0        *10.7           897.1   152b.8       42
_   .b_.............. ...... .... -_ -  -    ... - ------_ -.... . --------------- -, _,, -. ----
All-India                12657.3    16096.8          31583.6  63335.5   7206.0   11776.8             17500.s   36683.2   100.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  _. .  ....................... _ .....  __ ...... ..... ......... ........... ...._ . __...., 
includes fMaP and DLF
1 includes REC
lotes:
(1) Includes Union lerritorr of Chandioarh.
(2) includes Union Territory of Delhi.
(3) Includes Boa.
(6) includes Pondicherry



- 56 -
Table 9
DISBURSEMENT BY COMPONENTS
IN US S MILLION)
---------------------------------------------___-----------------------__
COMPONENT                   SAR             ACTUAL    X INCREASE/-
ESTIMATI                   DECREASE OVER
SAR
A - AGRICULTURE CREDIT      3.5               2.3         -34
REVIEW
B - SCHEMATIC LENDING      340.0             350.0         3
C - PILOT PROJECT          25.0              12.0-        -52
D - TRAINING                6.5              10.7         65
TOTAL                 375.0             375.0         0
NOTE: A, C AND D ARE GRANTS.



- 57 -
Table 10
Schedfle of mmaive D     }
(USS )
D% of Act
IBRDDA        s8R                            to                   Profie
FynYwSexxr      Aamar.       matU             SAR Eat.                  /
FY,87
1               103.       100.0            97%                    0.0
2               109.0      101.3             93%                  11.3
FY 88
I               196.0     255.9            131%                   67.5
2               204.0      259.7            127%                 112.5
FY 89
1               290.0      313.4           108%                  157.5
2               293.5      315.6           108%                  232.5
FY 90
1               375.0     366.7             98%                  307.5
2                          369.1            98%                  345.0
FY 91
1                         372.7             99%                  360.0
2                          375.0           100%                  371.3
Notes:
1. Effecdve dar : Septmber 16,1986.
2. Oiginal osing Dame is Deember 31 1989/
Revised closing De is June 30,1991.
/a  For Tndian IDF projects from COD April 1990 Stadard Di tPros
RV/ej
nabard I cwm dis



- 58 -
Table 11
DISBURSEMENT PROFILE - YEARWISE
Us M mILLION
REMARKS                          86/87       87/88       88/89       89/90       90/91  TOTAt
____---------------      ----------------  ---------------    ---------------     ---------------
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE              109.00       95.00       89.50       81.50                   375.00
I REVISED ESTIMATE              105.00      162.00.      68.00       50.00                   375.00
II RZVISED ESTIMATE             103.93      156.11      *56.21       55.75       3.00        375.00
ACTUAL                          101.30      158,40       55,90       53.50       5.10        376.00
---------------_ -_---------------------------------------_-- _--------------------------



- 59 -
Table 12
PROJECT BENEFITS
PARTICULARS                 UNIT      SAR    ACTUAL        X INCREASE/
ESTIMATE             DECREASE OVER
SAR
1. INCREASE IN FOODORAINS   MILLION    4.35    2.21               -49
PRODUCTION              TONNES
2. INCREASE IN OILSEEDS    MILLION    0.45    0.51                 13
PRODUCTION              TONNES
3. INCREASE IN SUGARCANE    MILLION    6.45    3.80        -      -41
PRODUCTION    -         TONNES
4. INCREASE IN COTTON      MILLION    0.30    '.33                .10
PRODUCTION              TONNES
5. SMALL FARMERS              X       60.00   88.00                47
BENEFITTED
6. CONSTROCTION EMPLOYMENT  MILLION  375.00   172.00              -54
MANDAYS
7. PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT    MILLION  350.00  523.00                 49
MANDAYS
8. BENEFICIARIES             NO.       5.00    6.00                20
__________________________________;______________________________________________
SOURCE: NABARD'S EX-POST EVALUATION STUDIES.



- 60 -
Table 13
Page 1.
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURNS- SAR ESTIMATES AND ACTUALS
1 Selected investments)
____________________________________________..___________--   _- _______________________________
State/District   Investment          Annual       FRR        ERR            Remarks
Incremental  tt)        (W)
Income S
(Rs)
A. Estimates: Staff Apprqa3al Reoort (BAR)
* Maharashtra/     Dugwell with          6,300   25/20*    San       without subsidy.
holasur &          Electric Pumoset                                    invest.Jnt cost includes
hmednaeor                                                              connec ion charges of
,. 19. 000
Tamil Nadu/        Coffee             30,000     23*       41      S At full develooment stage
-duroi               Plantation
Tamil Nadu/       Tractor             38.300     35*        33
hanJavur
4. Uttar  Pradesh/    Dairy               6.100   42/31*      17
8. Actuol: EX-post Evaluation Studies
1. Karnataka/       Bore  well with      12.513Q    270      966   0 excluding family labour
Chitrodurga & Kolar submersible Dumoset                             in cost of cultivation
QQ includes oumoset enercisation
cost of Rs.1L,818
2. Tamil  Nadu/       Tea #            ; 5.190      17       32        # oer acre  of tea garden
Nilgiris              Plantation
3.Madhya Pradesh/    Tractor              40237     320        369     O Excludes family labour as cost.
Raisen & Vidisho
6  Orissa/
Cuttack & Ganjam    Cross-bred
Cows-2                2029    173       136       QExcludes fam.ly labour as cost.
5. Maharashtra/     Lift Irrigation    14,81,000   466       526       QExcludes family labour as cost.
Ahmedn-oar                                                              Includes enersgisation cost.
-------------------_-------_---_-_-_______



- 61 -
Table 13
Page 2
Economic Prices / Conversion Factors Used for Economic Analysis
Investment\        Economic                   Remarks
Item of Investment  Price/
(Conversion
Factor)
--------------------------------------------------------__-----------
1. Tea Plantation
____________________
a) Tea leaves         (1.6)   Ratio of tea Prices in international
market to domestic Prices during
reference Year of studY (1988-89)
b) Fer-tilizers       (1.28)  Ratio of import Parity Prices of urea
(Rs.2998 per tonne) to domestic Prices
(Rs. 2350 Per tonne) during 1988-89.
c) soil               (0.3)   MaJor component of the cost is likely
Conservation and              to be the wages and considering limited
land development,             Prospects for alternative employment, the
standard                      cost is adjusted by 0.8
construction, etc.
2. Bore wells and
Lift irrigation     (Rs. Per Quintal)
____________________
a)Maize                134    Economic prices for reference Year of study
b)Jowar                132  ; (1986-87) as used bY the World Bank for
c)Paddy                211    appraisal of Notional Seeds Project
d)Groundnut            352    III.These refer to values at
e)Wheat                221    international prices for commodities
f)Baira                130    traded internationally and at farm oate
prices for commodities not traded
internationally.
g)Sugarcane           (1.6)   Actual prices of sugar in international
market are usuallY much higher than the
prices of sugar worked out on the basis
of the minimum statutory Prices fixed by the
Govt. This rationale was used for
generating the conversion factor .
h) Fertilizers and    (1.0)   Ratio of import Parity prices of ures
manures                       (Rs.2298 Per tonne) to domestic Prices
(Rs. 2350 Per tonne) dur'ing 1986-87.
h) Energy charges     (1.4)  Adjustment made to account for subsidy bY Govt.
i)Pumpset and         (0.8a)   AdJusted for excise duty and sales tax.
Pipes



- 62 -
Table 13
Page 3
.airY C'evelopment
i) Cross-bred Cow     (1.0)   Domestic prices are assumed to reflect
international Prices.
iiJ Milk, animal      (0.8)   Considering non-tradeable nature of the
feed and fodder               commodities, the market Prices have been suitab
adjusted.
D) Farm Mechanisation
___________________
i)Tractor and         (0.8)   Adjusted for excise dutY and sales tax.
accessories
ii)Diesel             (1.4)   Adjustment made to account for subsidy.
---------------------------------------------------------------__------
Notes
i) Interest on short term loans, rent on leased in land, road tax.insurance
Premium   for  tractors  etc., were excluded while computing  the  cost  ot
cultivation  to be used in ERR since th_se were in the nature  of  transfer
payments.
ii) Wages for unskilled labour and bullock labour charges were adjusted  by
a factor of 0.8 since prospects for their employment elsewhere are of
limited nature.
iii) Value of manures and oesticides adjusted bY using conversion coeffi-
cient for fertilizers.
iv) Farm gate Prices used for commodities like Pulses and oilseeds.



Mssion Data
|   Dot.   |       ;  No. ol  M| ndays    Special.   Performance                     Type of
Two of Mssion    MoJYr.         By        Persons     In FReld   Izatlon S     Rallng       Trend      Problems b/
Prepamilon                      NABAF
Apprasa              12/84        BFD
1            4/86                      1          27           F           2           n.a.      M(staffing)
2            8J86                      1          19           F            2           n.a.
3           11186                      1          20           F            2           n.a.         T
4            3/87                      1           2           F            2           n.a.         T
5           10/87                      1          15           F            2           n.a.         T
6            2/88                      1           3           F            2           n.a.         T
7            7/88                      1           8           F            2           n.a.         T
8            8/89                      3           5          E,EF          3           n.a.         T
9            4/90                      4           5         IE,E,I.F       4           n.a.         T
10           12190                     2           5           E,E          4           n.a.          T
CompbeIon            1/92         BFR)         2           5          EJE
at F * Fhancial nalyst, E - Economist, I  Irrigation Engineer
bJ M   Mana , T * Technia
n.a, nort avaabl



Staff Inputs
Staff Inputs Undmcounbd (SWS)
Stop of Prouc  Cyle        FY82      FY83     FY84      FY65     FY8U      FY87     FY88      FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92    Totals
IdmefcatoiVPrataon         18.1      21.1     36.5      30.9                                                                          106.6
Appral                                                  60.1                                                                           60.1
Negotations                                              2.2      20.7                                                                  22.9
Lening Opons                                   1.6      19.0      5.6                                                                  26.2
SupeIso                                                           19.4     54.6      90.9     21.6      29.6      6.6                  222.7
Proect Caplolon                                                                                                             8.9          8.9
Project Admlnltralon                  1.4                                   0.8                                                          2.2
I
Totals                     18.t      22.5      38.1     112.2    45.7      55.4      90.9     21.6      29.6      6.6       8.9        449.6                 .
AS of 418192
Ian



- 65 -
Table 16
Pa8e 1 of 5
iictic~~~~~~~~~i  .                                     i~~~~Qqifll  howriud   Luqi of
Sry hcriptiu                            Ceuime Ekopliance Cotiie           rwtm
r      t, D_te
LA.02                   krro&er OWLa reled SW  n toWMluder   Flll              /    I     I   I
RA satisfsctryv to Ib  ud anci  tWu
r4 corditina nps 5r0.3 of LoU
LA.3.04                 ero   OW    L nitddiblsmaiaier  fws         I6    I I        I I    1
roop ISEI)
lA.~.rt   w  r                        elplpv cw itants to crry      1D    I          I / /    I
out studies reltd to Aar.  rdit SysteL
MS                         Om 501 hrtsa       a m inahw4,t rS SB          I I    II   I
a  cewultats.
A.4.014.03              hrrowr Mali uuntain seate acots fir AT              I        I                     eived for FiKal er udaing 3/3218.
Part A of project (SE & ItEnmtat Studi)
& famish not later thu 6 ath  after d
Ft, adited  uouts, inclding swet.
auit eopanin on Bft disutrseunt mN m
basis of M0s.
LJUDL1.341              Ojirwmmnt of Ist lrwe    OOID )            nu I    I           I     I          finrt tranche fw (SlOO disb d in
a*ject to (1) muoutt of 4 of tht J SES                                          D rc_ 1.
Ss. aod (2)  catiom of digiiity
criteria by MM        r aWS.2 of Projct
I. lI,$3()        O      iismnt of M Tro  A SMneI        ,12       FIN    I I    W11U   I    t             rmnc   ima dto up 150    n
wrt   aftr eiubsmt.fitd lst trnche, mu                                          md did       in l    trll l.
u6iect to 11 eeloynt of rimmini 35 3
m       rs, td 12) receipt of drft rots of
2 of 5 cmt studies.
LMKIL1.3(c)             hDt  d  5tof3rd lr*  (WM f lM,24    FIN    I I             1/18   I                   ti r tc ru decu to USJ 5 tdllar
nts after diramuuwut of lot Trick, vs                                            ii dis -    in F*wv IM.
ubject to ript of the final vet of 4
cwuitut stes.
L4A.1.J1fi               0 *bunt d unrof 4thfrwde(IP), 36    FIN    I I    12101/R   I                   Fwtk truhM d         to Sup  Omillir
-oth after diumem t of l*t traih, is                                               am     d     i  lin ciwm  1989.
9*ntt to reipt of the final versin   of
all 5 cueltnt dtin  am the Sf report.



- 66 -
Table 16
Page 2 of 5
'ctiai                                                                     OiqinaI   Revieed   LeveOf
Swwy   scnptm                             CO lian Ewplime mlist             fwhks
Ty"    ute      Oate
MA2.03                   Loins ede to pticipatinq banks ShaI be    FIN  07/01/Cu          /      3           in a diute with thelerld 11tk. 1W,
refiaced by MM   oly4srde wh, a bank                                               paroedes e*Rt refimic fwr nmHar
shall have satisfied digibility criteria as                                          ctu   151 potion of MP fro the
per 13L2. Proet A'eet.                                                             calculatim  of eliuibility criteria.
uh los acco   tr EX oi ute 'otul
refinac  pw
FA.2.091e                For pqe of -eitging & revnew             IRD P OWRB 06/30/&b     I      12         Though coatled with in a fowal
lending, 1      shll establish & maintain a                                        sense,lAAM   ha limited ability to
lask Fa. chaired by MM   & c  nsing                                                onrc  political l ote pressr
fw bp Nomtives from eleted banks.                                                  iich affect IPOP lending. 11erere,
dspite sreprted imp'ownts, the
implemtation of these ov     ts is
havn eniy a partiall Icat di
PAL,2O9l4)0td.r                                                              /  /                                  a en a qsality of MP lesding.
FMU2OMlbI                Fargo on      iteringrr   i r   nn    IRVP   WSR6 030/66       I 1    2             As boe.
18n14   MM  shll sntablish & aantain a
IRP Plaming & Reiew &op with adeate
officers At each of its reniitl offices.
FAZOI(c)                 For pirpose of  n        enit tnnr g rne IrW IM P WM  OI/      / /      2          As Iowa.
lendi. IaD  shaill etblish & maintain a
Cell at its Ii r"pmosible to coordinate IROP
menitoritlg
FA,2.09td)               b    hul r     wr c   ut Idistrict erientd  61D                I /   / /    2      As above.
mitoring) studie an IRDP sWation   nd
fmrish the rilts of  ch sWies to the
Dank.
AL,IWO                     1    to prpne ad fhrnih to the Bank        RT       I        I I    2             Both r-:bts omitted, but late; the
e    itimn repwrts on cryinp eAt of Part C                                         first in 1998 ne the sKom in 19,.
Vf the projct - firnt eluation repwt by
Ott.l'6 I Second elution report by
Oct.1'9.



- 67 -
Table 16
Page 3 of 5
Section                                                                      Orional  R,ised   Leel of
kmar  lWcniption                           Loliance  omliance CEoliinwe    Rewks
typt Date       Date
Pa.2.I!                  0S~1D shall furnmsh mally tu-to-date          CPs 06/30/66                           W M 2  1    ha generally provided inaduAte
-                 ass#sents of lendina potential fo                                                    data an this, althotah accordino to
irrigation schemes tro State gruidter                                               MM   a full  sment of groid-ater
organizations.                                                                      potential is undertaken 01 a
Ca ey-cme bsis at tihe tite ot
IIrOWYI Of eah sKheMe.  ttter land
cptable) data wre  Icent d)
F*211  lLintd.i                                                              / I        I  I                provided to ISW superision nission.
FA4..IIa)                Esolyis qualified staff for ispleetatim  of  MN4 06/30196       I                    W M IEAD has assined staff I procedtres.
rehabilitation oroorms fa LDhs in bihar,                                            lwever,WMP      s impact on oerail
Gujarat.  R. tarnataxa. MFP lrashtra                                                improvesent ot LOs wll be
Rajastnan. Triptwra, lIil kadu a  lst                                               slittantially less than SO
engal.                                                                              expectations-A long tern stainable
solution fwr lDUs is needed as part of
overall reiore ofi agricultural credit.
A.L12b?                  Frnish Bank rehabilitation prooran  fer eath  11'6 0931/So      / 1    2             As aboF.
of IBs reterred to above.
PA.2.134b)               Apiv guidelines satisfactory to Sank for      OR6    /        /  I 1    2            As above.
strenothemno financial positio of LDS
branches & FMiS hidch fall in foiurth
category of eligibility criteria.
FT.114(a)                Apply quidelines satisfactory to Snk for             I I        I I    2             As aboe.
orovidino tewrarv staff assistance to aid
recovery & rehabilitatim of LOB branches I
PMSs ,Aich fall in Category IV of
eligibility criteria.
FA. .15                  IhW       shall furnish the Bank quarterly    WT  09/30/86        /      2           As weed dith previous warvision
pro ess reports within 3 onths of the end                                           missions, I1S     is sumittina reports
of each reporting pwriod.                                                            n a half-ealy basis.
f.A 16                   WM   shall appiv oudelines satisfactory to  0C                   / I1    2           Mhile foally complied with, the
Sank for IME of credit operations wider                                             ieplenentation of this coemnt is not
refinancing proerna                                                                 having the intended iqact on the
quality of ag. credit.



-68-
Table 16
Page 4 of 5
S!Ctretios                                                                 Jiqina1   RAe d    Leve of
SWY bnctptim                              Comliamn Eoplime (oqlia            fRh
Ty   kti        Date
FA.Z.tllai              Wan  shI iaqleust an Wreed troininq          IfIR  0/07/0      /  I    I
pra  fwr: selected *mh  1mn s of
iOwt 10 Ls, about. 20 filh ad out 5 Ch.
PA.L17(b)               WM   WhIl ispilt in aneed trainine            Wm  07101/96    1 1    1
prora  trt: I1's staff d pWticipatinq
b*'s staff in rtural brking.
FA.3.04                 (To iwrove LUS/FUS  i.plmt a clan            I1      I        1 :       2           IMhs ha         ed st iff   rcds.
stisfactory to the bnt to staff its                                                IbrWl*Ds im:% in oerall
rqlal officrn & its D1 hpwtadt aith                                               inmpro et I./RaDs mill be
oualified spcialisb in adequate.mabovn.                                            P*tMtiaUyI lIe  then W
ewetiw . A Imq two  steinale
solutio for Lh i needs  as pat c
*wal refew Ot aqncultwt credit.
PA.4.Ollb               IW D OWL ftrnish to the bik. not latet  OD /           I       I I    I             reie  for Fr enlpa.311190.
than 4 outh; after eni of each FY certified
Capin of its usua adited financial
statesnts.
fA,4.Ot I               Annul Adit Reprt cctainirq srate              ODT    I I       I I    I             kcnved for Ft endinq 331190.
opinion by hAditors a to  Wther  iwthdrals
made on basis of SEs we utilized fr
-v3 m    fi odich thy we prded.
.1.A.4.02                IIWRD  shMll fanish to the bak. t the        FIN    I I        I /      I
beQinin o* each fisa iar. its detailed
refinancinq progra for the FT.
WMWU  shall tate al actioM  incl.suspmson IN I         I       1 1    2            fWt from  seirs          the leweraqe of
of financ,  opertion to torce its aiir                                             withdildoaq refina   thrwu
recoueati:u on tho  paticipating bank                                              eipbility criteri, MM    hs limited
incept Chso uich after I ye  bhave not                                             ability to withhold its fina   to bes
satisfactorily cotplied with 1M     s  jwr                                         thick do not CompY with its
recmmdatimns.                                                                      rom     atirm    reunltia t,
iact1 us5,re  bilitAtitn  tcotdIC
fMA4W" (Ad.                                                                  I I       I I                  stis. ec. Ibevar. during I
ID        ld    ttwo ril witthhold its
finan  to       t atet Cop bn   becus
of dispte ower the banks Compiance
with  N        directives



- 69 -
Table 16
-Pa-ge  S   f  S
5ecticn                                                                   Original  Rensd    Level of
*i ry -1    tionm                         Liqilaie Lopli.m'e  pIiece    Rewks
rwp  Mte       Oate
P4SM  I                 Thisscheduledncribestersde         nditUs  09I6       I       / 1    2            Items in thischdle we re   siqn.d to
fr tht4t   bfiim     fRa.                                                    -    inue that the WM  i iNenCe free
pruoted pits of fectie mcrdit
deliey t reaov baiedn a nod
*inancal *ySa of prOod
invew Ecntd.)
A.SCl.I lItXl                                                                 / I         /               4*ile pilly the crWibms hve vb
ccqpliedmth in a 1mu  ii #. the
objective of the Sdhdule has ot bn
Codes top Le.el of Conliane                                                Wodes  I         Comant
I  -N ull cmplad                                                                       ADI - Audit
Far tilly   alied -4ot .ffecting iteplUtitin                                            FIN - Finmcial
3  -  Nb l= nee                                                                        RPI - Repcrtino
4      t vit due                                                                       0CH- Teenacaf
5  - L      t no lmer   pliclbit - imuld be duittediedfied                              STO - Studtes
6    CrlU   i  e 4ate rquares revision                                                  CRY - Cost i vor
A    Ai'  2 T?.r vei d                                                                 am - I1enisaten Sai
Wt;-lb  2 WfMr  mm owr dwe                                                              M-   aigent I,Staffing



ESTIMATED & ACTUAL DISBUFRSEMENTS
700-
500 -
500
CD
z
40 0
2300
0~~
FY.87(1) FY.87(2) FY.88(l) FY.88(2) FY.89(1) FT.89(2) FY.so(l) FY.9O(2) FYn91(1) FY.91(2)
FY.YEAR
D   ESiMATE               +   ACTUAL



