Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5594-IN
STAFF APPRAI SAL REPORT
I NDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
January 24, 1986
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture Division II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As applied in the report)
US$1.00         =  Rs 12.00
Rs 1.00         =  US$0.083
Rs 1 million    =  US$83,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres = 10,000 M2
1 ton = 1,000 kg
CROPPING SEASONS
Kharif    -    June to September
Rabi      -    October to February
Summer    -    March to May
FISCAL YEAR
Government of India              -    April 1 to March 31
NABARD and cooperative banks    -    July 1 to June 30
Commercial Banks                 -    January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACD        -    Agriculture Credit Department (of the Reserve Bank of India)
ARC        -    Agricultural Refinance Corporation
ARDC       -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CB         -    Commercial Bank
DCCB       -    District Central Cooperative Bank
DICGC      -    Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation
DRDA       -    District Rural Development Agency
EC         -    European Community
FCI        -    Food Corporation of India
GDP        -    Gross Domestic Product
GOI        -    Government of India
HYV        -    High-Yielding Variety
IDA        -    International Development Association
IRDP       -    Integrated Rural Development Program
LDB        -    Land Development Bank
NABARD     -    National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NCDC       -    National Cooperative Development Corporation
PACS       -    Primary Agricultural Credit Societies
PLDB       -    Primary Land Development Bank
Credit
Review    -    Agriculture Credit Review to be financed under the project
RBI        -    Reserve Bank of India
RRB        -    Regional Rural Bank
SBI        -    State Bank of India
SCB        -    State Cooperative Bank
SEG        -    Senior Expert Group
SGO        -    State Groundwater Organization
SOE        -    Statements of Expenditures
SWC        -    State Warehousing Corporation



FOR oMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................    -iv
I. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR ........................................
Introduction ..................................................     1
Development Patterns by Region ....   ,    , , .,                   2
Role of Agricultural Credit ...................................     3
Historical Development .......................,                     3
Short-Term Credit from Institutional Sources ..................    4
Term Credit from Institutional Sources ........................     4
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS ..............................     5 
A.  Short-Term Cooperative Credit Structure ...................     5
B. Land Development Banks ............................,            6
C. Commercial Banks ..........................................      7
D. Regional Rural Banks ..........................,                 8
E. Staff Training ............................................      8
F.  Integrated Rural Development Program ......................     9
G.  Credit Recovery and Eligibility Criteria        .     .        11
Overview                        ..    11
Loan Recovery of Land Development Banks        .      .        11
Loan Recovery of Regional Rural Banks         .      .         12
Loan Recovery of Commercial Banks            ..                12
Past Measures to Improve Loan Recovery ..,..   .              12
Rehabilitation ......                                          14
III. PERFORMANCE OF BANK GROUP FINANCED AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
PROJECTS IN INDIA .................                               15
Introduction .................                                    15
Results of State Based and ARDC Credit Projects ..............    16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited India during December, 1984, consisting of Messrs. G. van Santen,
A. Haji, S. Lieberman, B. Argyle, J. Manickavasagam and M. Baxter (Bank);
R. Stoner (Consultant) and P. Vorage (representative of the Netherlands
bilateral aid who participated full time in the appraisal). Mr. M. Virdy
contributed to the report. The word processing was done by Ms. B. Bolden,
Ms. H. Pratt, with the assistance of Ms. G. Burnett, Ms. C. Doden and
Ms. A. Miinott.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offca duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorizatimn.



-ii-
Page No.
IV. THE PROJECT ...................................................   17
A.  Development Strategy ......................................   17
B. Project Genesis ...................................                                         19
C.   Brief Description  and  Objectives ..........................                             19
D.  Detailed Features .........................................   20
Agricultural Credit Review ................................   2C
Pilot Scheme for Strengthening
Agricultural  Credit Delivery  System,.................,.                               21
NABARD's Training Program .................................   23
RABARD-s Refinancing Program ..............................   23
Minor Irrigation ..........................................   23
Dryland Farming ...........................................   25
Land Development and Soil Conservation ....................   26
Livestock .................................................   26
Plantations and Horticulture ..............................   27
Forestry ..................................................   27
Fisheries ........                                                                       28
Storage ........                                                                         28
Markets .....                                                                             29
Farm Mechanization ........................................   29
Non-Farm Rural Activities .................................   30
E. Project Costs ............................................    30
F. Financing .................................................   32
G.  Procurement ...............................................   33
H. Disbursements .............................................   34
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................................   35
A. The National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development .........................................   35
B. NABARD's Lending Procedures ...............................   42
C. Lending Terms and Conditions .........................,. 43
D.  Lending to Small Farmers ..................................   44
E. Accounts and Audit ........................................   44
F. Monitoring and Evaluation .................................   45
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING. PRICES AND FINANCIAL RETURNS TO
PROJECT BENEFICIARIES                             ...........................                  46
Production ....................................................   46
Marketing and Prices ..........................................   47
Financial Analysis ....................                                                        47



-iii-
PaRe No.
VII. BENEFITS, RISKS, AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   48
Benefits             .....................,,.48
Beneficiaries .................. .                                 48
Environmental E'fects               ........... .    49
Economic Analysis                      ..                          49
Project Risks                        ..                            49
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................................   50
SCHEDULES AND ANNEXES
Schedule A   Lending Terms and Conditions
Schedule B   Schedule of Disbursement Tranches
Schedule C   Criteria for Eligibility of Financial Institutions
to Receive Refinancing from NABARD
Annex 1, Table 1 A.  Summary of Indicated Costs for Pilot Project
Table 2  B.  Nabard Head Office Costs for Pilot Project
Table 3  C.  Model Cost Table for One Regional Office (NABARD)
Table 4  D.  Model Cost Table for One District
Table 5 Agriculture Credit Review - Cost Estimates
Table 6  NABARD's Expected Expenditure on Training Programs -
1986/87 to 1988189
Table 7  Estimated Disbursements
Annex 2, Table 1  Investment Models - Financial and Economic Rate of Return
Table 2  Investment Models - Sensitivity Analysis
Annex 3, Table 1  Summary Balance Sheets - ARDC/NABARD (1977-1985)
Table 2  Summary Statement of Income and Expenditure -
ARDC/NABARD (1977-1985)
Table 3 ARDCINABARD Disbursements by Subsector (FY1980/81-FY1984/85)
Table 4  NABARD's Estimated Resource Position for Term Lending
FY86/87 - FY88/89
Table 5  NABARD's Expected Refinancing Program FY86/87 - FY88/89
Annex 4 Agricultural Credit Review, Draft Terms of Reference
Annex 5, Table 1 Analysis of LDB Demand and Recovery (1981/82-1983/84)
Table 2  Summary of Land Development Bank Recoveries (1974-1984)
Table 3  Recovery Performance of LDB Branches (as of 6/30/84)
Table 4  Recovery Status of RRBs as of 6/30/83
Table 5  Recovery of Agricultural Loans of Commercial Banks by
Region/States (1975-1981)
Table 6 Demand and Collection of Agricultural Loans of Commercial
Banks (1979-1982)
Annex 6 Documents in Project File



-iv-
CHARTS
1. NABARD Organization Chart of Head Office (World Bank 27140)
2. Flow of Agricultural Credit in India (World Bank 27141)
3. Major Institutional Funding for Agricultural Term Loans (World Bank 27142)
MAP
World Bank 18832



INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Government of India
Beneficiaries:    NABARD, for onlending to farmers for on-farm investments
through participating banks.
Amount:           US$375 million (equivalent)
Terms:            Repayment over 20 years, including 5 years' grace at the
standard, variable rate.
Onlendnj           (i)   GOI to NABRED:  Interest would be 6.5% (net of a
Terms:                   reduction of 0.25Z for prompt repayment) per annum
in respect of NABARD refinancing of terms loans of
up to nine years' duration and 7.0% (net of a
reduction of 0.25Z for prompt repayment) in
respect of NABARD refinancing of term loans of up
to 15 years duration. Repayment of principal in
lump sums at the end of 9 or 15 years, respec-
tively.
(ii) NABARD to Participatinjt Banks:
(a) For small farmers, 1/ IRDP loans, and all
loans for minor irrigation and land develop-
ment, not less than: 6.5%
(b) All others, not less than: 8.0Z.
Repayments to coincide approximately with collec-
tions from ultimate borrowers but not to exceed
two years beyond initial amortization schedules
specified in loans to ultimate borrowers
refinanced by NABARD.
(iii) Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers:
(a) For small farmers, IRDP loans, and all loans
for minor irrigation and land development,
not less than: 10.0%.
(b) All others, not less than: 12.5%.
Repayments are based on borrowers - repayment
capacity and types of investments financed.
jj Small farmers are defined as those cultivating land that provides an
annual pre-development net return to the farmer and his family of not
more than Rs 2,000 based on 1972 prices.



Proiect
Description:      The purpose of the project is to help increase agricultural
production through particiption in KABARD's ongoing loan
refinancing program for investments in agriculture, and to
strengthen the agricultural credit system. The project
includes a component for extending the existing pilot
scheme for branch-level training and farm-level credit
delivery systews, along with an extensive training program
component for the management and operational staff of
NABARD, the Land Development Banks (LDBs), commercial banks
(CBs) and Regional Rural Banks (RRBs). A thorough review
of the workings of the credit system would also be financed
under the project. There is a risk that the more strict
criteria governing branch access to NABARD refinance may
not necessarily induce such branches to take the measures
required to improve credit discipline. A series of
covenants are designed to have NABARD take a more active
role in the rehabilitation of branches to minimize this
risk. Secondly, there is a risk of continued general
deterioration of loan recoveries in the agriculture credit
system. However, the project is designed to progressively
reduce NABARD refinancing of poor-performing branches and
under either of the above risk scenarios, IBRD funds would
not be at risk, as repayments by participating banks to
NABARD are generally made on time and NABARD's own
financial position remains very sound.



-lll-
Estimated Cost: 1/
(US$ millions)
Item                             Local           Foreisn           Total
(a) NABARD Refinancing
(i) Schematic Loans:
- Minor irrigation and
land development             1,413.3           157.0           1,570.4
- Farm mechanization             667.4           117.8             785.2
- IRDP and other schemes       1,522.3            97.2           1,619.4
- Other (including dairy
livestock, plantations,
fisheries, forestry)           885.8            46.6             932.4
Subtotal                4,488.8           418.6          4,907.4
(ii)  Nonschematic Loans 2/            330.6            82.6             413.2
(b)  Pilot Scheme                           22.5             2.5             25.0
(c)  Agricultural Credit Review              1.6             1.9              3.5
(d)  NABARD's Training Programs              5.2             1.3              6.5
Total Project Cost           4,848.7           506.9           5,355.6
;_===  c    = ~====            =  =
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                                    375.0             375.0
Dutch Government                                           5.5              5.5
KFW                                       -              21.2              21.2
Ultimate Borrowers' equity               426.8          105.2             532.0
NABARD and GOI resources              3,464.2             -             3,464.2
Participating Banks' contributions       957.7            -               957.7
Total                   4,848.7           506.9          5,355.6
1/ Excluding taxes and duties.
ZJ Comprising loans for crop storage, input stocks, and rural elec-
trification.



-lv-
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ millions)
FY87       FY88        FY89        FY90
(a)  RefinancinR
First Tranche                    100.0         -
Second Tranche                     -          80.0         -           -
Third Tranche                                  -          80.0         -
Fourth Tranche                     -           -           -          80.0
(b)  Other Disbursements                9.0        15.0         9.5         1.5
Cumulative Total            109.0      204.0       293.5       375.0



INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Introduction
1.01      Agriculture remains the mainstay of the Indian economy.  Currently,
farming and related activities account for 35% of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) and 29% of exports; agriculture employs 70% of the labor force.
Agricultural growth has kept pace with rising domestic demand, thereby enab-
ling the country to eliminate foodgrain imports. Agricultural output rose by
2.6% per annum between the late 1960s and the late 1970s, and increased to
2.8Z since the late 1970s. In 1983/84 the combined output of wheat, rice,
coarse cereals, and pulses was 152 million tons, 16% higher than the average
production level of foodgrains in the previous three years.
1.02       India's agricultural gains over the past 15 years are due, in
large part, to the diffusion of high-yielding varieties (HYVs) of hybrid
cereals and to the more extensive application of fertilizers and otl.-r
inputs. By 1983/84, fertilizer-responsive HYVs, initially introduced iu
India in the mid-1960s, were used on more than half the area devoted to
cereal production. Fertilizer consumption, which averaged 1.8 million tons
in 1967/70, rose to 7.8 million tons in 1983/84. Similarly, purchases of
pesticides rose sharply during the 1970s and early 1980s. Overall, the
estimated value of all inputs (including labor) rose in real terms from Rs 49
billion in 1970/71 to Rs 74 billion in 1981/82. Expenditure on cash inputs
(including hired labor) by public agencies and private individuals grew even
faster.
1.03      The agricultural sector has also absorbed high levels of capital
investment by public agencies and private individuals since 1970. This has
substantially enlarged the area devoted to irrigated crops. The irrigation
potential created by publicly constructed dams and canals rose from 18 mil-
lion hectares (ha) in 1968/69 to more than 30 million ha in 1983/84; land
brought under irrigation, mostly by private expenditure, increased from 19
million ha in 1968/69 to 34 million ha in 1982/83. Overall, gross agricul-
tural capital formulation is estimated to have risen in real terms from Rs 13
billion in 1970/71 to Rs 21 billion in 1981/82. Public outlays as a share
of total agricultural investment increased from 25% in 1970/71 to 32% in
1981/82. Privately executed and largely farm-based investments such as minor
irrigation works, pumpsets, tractors, and livestock increased in absolute
terms, but less rapidly than public investments.



-2-
Development Patterns by Region
1.04       The scope and quality of investments has varied considerably among
regions since the mid-1950s. A geographically differentiated pattern of
investment accounts for much of the variation in the pace of agricultural
expansion at the State level. Growth has been most rapid in the States of
Punjab and Haryana and the lowest in the eastern region of the country. For
example, the combined output of foodgrains in Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal
grew by a total of 3% between the late 1960s and the early 1980s. Growth
rates in other regions have been more in line with all-India trends; only
the average annual growth rate of about 2% in foodgrains production in the
southern tier, comprising Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu
was below average.
1.05       The high growth rates of between 3.8% and 5.8% annually attained
in Punjab and Haryana are attributable, in part, to the large program of
public investment, complemented by extensive farm-level investments. Public
resources have been applied to major irrigation and power projects, rural
roads, and marketing facilities, and also to the implementation of effective
land reform, a reorganization of the cooperative movement, and strengthening
of agricultural research and extension. Cultivators have followed up with
private investments to improve farm production, control the timing of field
operations, and increase the application of inputs needed for successful
utilization of HYVs. Household savings in these States have substantially
increased and have been used, to a considerable extent, to finance continuous
improvements in agricultural production capacity.
1.06       Comparable growth has been achieved in those districts of
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh that are adjacent to the Punjab and Haryana, and
in selected districts of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.
Elsewhere, agricultural performance has been poor either because of
under-utilization of facilities created through public investment or because
of the absence, thus far, of concerted public initiatives in the agricultural
sector. Growth rates have been disappointing in the southern region, despite
extensive reliance on irrigation and above-average use of fertilizer on a per
hectare basis. Utilization of water has been unsatisfactory in western India
-here considerable public resources have been invested in irrigation
facilities. However, agricultural growth in this region has been stimulated
by the widespread dissemination of improved varieties of coarse grains. In
the eastern region, reliance on irrigation and use of fertilizers and HYVs is
limited, despite the considerable potential for surface and groundwater
irrigation. Farm-level constraints, such as the small average size and
fragmentation of holdings, make it difficult for cultivators to invest in
tubewells and dugwells. Farmers reluctance to invest in improvements is
linked to poorly funded and badly executed state-level initiatives on land
reform and production.



-3-
Role of Agricultural Credit
1.07       In addition to direct public investment in irrigation facilities
and other productive infrastructure, the Government of India (GOI) h.s
fostered private investment in agriculture. These efforts since the 1960s,
have increasingly centered on the expansion of the institutional credit
system. Two distinct objectives have underpinned GOI ambitions: First,
institutional credit disbursements have been seen as a primary tool in the
campaign to eradicate rural poverty. The Government's view is that credit
advances can free cultivators from exploitative economic relationships and
provide the asset base needed by them to become self-sustaining producers.
The most recent manifestation of this view is the Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Program (IRDP) intended for small and marginal farmers and landless
workers (paras 2.13-2.15).
1.08       Second, the role of institutional finance ir rural areas is inter-
twined with the national goal of achieving self-sufficiency in food produc-
tion. Institutional credit is regarded as a critical means of improving
agricultural production and productivity by facilitating adoption of new
agricultural techniques and inputs and by encouraging a shift to irrigated
cropping. Based on the estimates of the All-India Rural Credit Reviev Commit-
tee, which forecasted the amount of institutional credit needed to reach
"required" investment levels, the Sixth Five Year Plan (FY79/80 - FY84/85)
set a target of Rs 40 billion of short-term lending and Rs 14 billion of
(medium- and long-term) lending for 1984/85. The Seventh Five Year Plan
proposes more ambitious goals - Rs 80 billion of short-term lending and Rs 45
billion of term lending for 1989/90.
Historical Development
1.09       GOI-s ambitions with respect to rural credit were initially pur-
sued through expansion of the cooperative system which, in the mid-1950s,
comprised some 110,000 Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACSs), with
links to 509 District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCBs) and 16 State
Cooperative Banks (SCBs), all lending for short-term purposes; for
term-lending, there were seven State Land Mortgage Banks, which advanced
credit mainly for redemption of non-institutional debt, and several Land
vevelopment Banks (LDBs). The State Land Mortgage Banks later converted into
LDBs, while additional States introduced LDBs by 1969. Dissatisfaction with
the volume and quality of lending through cooperative institutions in the
early 1970s led to measures by GOI to involve Commercial Banks (CBs) in
agricultural lending (paras 2.07-2.10). Expanded CB financing to agriculture
was induced by GOI by stipulating minimum lending levels for priority sec-
tors, including agriculture, and was supported by licensing measures, which
further induced CBs to increase the number of rural branches from 5,000 in
1969 to 40,000 in 1984. The rural credit system was further expanded with
the creation, in 1975, of Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) (para 2.11). Institu-
tional credit operations in rural areas are regulated by the Reserve Bank of
India (RBI), which ensures that lending terms available through different
channels are compatible with the structure of interest rates set out in
government directives. Until 1982, the Agricultural Credit Department (ACD)



-4-
of RBI was the main source of refinance for short-term cooperative credit
institutions, vhile the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) served as the primary means of refinancing term lending. In 1982,
the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) was created,
and it assumed the refinancing functions of ARDC and ACD (see Chapter V).
Short-Term Credit from Institutional Sources
1.10       Short-term advances rose rapidly in nominal and in real terms
between 1974/75 and 1978/79. Cooperative disbursements (including RRBs) rose
60X to Rs 12.1 billion and CB advances more than doubled to Rs 3.6 billion.
During this period, short-term disbursement accounted for an increasing
proportion of expenditures on agricultural inputs. However, thereafter,
short-term credit flows (in real terms) first declined and then remained
roughly at the level that prevailed in 1977/78, with CB adiances continuing
to grow, reaching Rs 7.0 billion in 1981/82 and 1982/83, vhile cooperative
disbursements declined in real terms. Despite the lack of growth of
short-term advances in real terms, expenditure on purchased inputs continued
to grow rapidly during the late 1970s and early 1980s, as cultivators were
able to find other means, including their savings, to finance their working
capital requirements.
Term Credit from Institutional Sources
1.11       Institutionally funded investment in agriculture increased nearly
threefold in real terms between 1971/72 and 1980/81, while the proportion of
institutional lending in private agricultural investment increased by
one-third during this period, reaching 442 in 1980/81. Hovever, recent
investments funded through institutional sources may yield lower returns than
would have accrued if investments had been funded through private savings
alone. IRDP (para 2.13) has garnered a growing proportion of agricultural
lending, and recent studies highlight the low returns and high administrative
costs associated with IRDP lending. Also, large allocations of institutional
finance to minor irrigation investments in non alluvial area (para 4.21) are
likely to be characterized by low marginal economic benefits.
1.12       The efficiency of institutional credit for term lending needs to
be assessed with regard to how much financing has augmented or, in some
situations, displaced private savings in different regions. Large institu-
tional credit disbursements in Punjab and Haryana have been combined with
substantial private savings to finance the continuing increases in productive
capacity. Allocations to IRDP in these States account for a small proportion
of institutional credit advances. By contrast, the growth of agricultural
production has remained relatively low in the southern tier of States,
despite significant financial disbursements including a large share to IRDP,
and substantial public investments. Private savings in this region where
average returns to farming investments are low might have been drawn to
non-agricultural opportunities, leaving agricultural investment to be
financed institutionally. In the eastern region, agricultural investment is
low and suffers from an inappropriate mix of investment outlays. Rural



-5-
financial institutions in Bihar and to a lesser extent, Orissa have con-
centrated more on farm mechanization schemes for larger farmers than on
financing minor irrigation projects. IRDP accounts for more than 202 of term
credit disbursed in Bihar and Orissa. The relative share of the institutions
of NABARD's term credit disbursements has been as follows:
Share of ARDC/NABARD Disbursements for Term Investments
FY74175         FY79/80         FY83/84           FY84/85
Agency          Rs M    Z        Rs M    2      Rs M      x       Rs M    Z
LDBs            771    72     1,640    40      3,140    35      3,140    30
CBs 1/          279    26     2,300    56      4,500    50      5,700    54
RRBs              -               90     2       870    10      1,400    13
SCBs             15     2        90      2       410      5       370      3
Total         1,065   100     4,120   100      8,920   100    10,610   100
1/  CBs- share of financing in agriculture is likely to be higher, because
CBs finance up to 60% of their agricultural investments from their own
resources without NABARD refinance.
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
A. Short-Term Cooperative Credit Structure
2.01       The short-term cooperative banking structure in each State com-
prises a three-tiered structure with the SCB at the apex, serving DCCBs at
the district level, and PACSs being the primary lending units. In 1984, the
27 SCBs, 337 DCCBs, and 94,000 PACSs had the biggest network for short-term
lending. All DCCBs within a State are shareholders of the apex SCB and
provide short-term credit to village-level PACSs, based on limits prescribed
by RBI. Besides serving as bankers to their member DCCBs, SCBs conduct
general banking business, arrange for statutory inspection of DCCBs and
provide some training facilities. SCBs and DCCBs compete with CBs and RRBs
for deposits and are the major institutional source of short-term credit to
'armers.
2.02       At the village level PACSs provide members with short-term credit
and marketing services, and since their functioning expanded in 1969, have
also provided a number of diversified services, such as stocking and retail-
ing agricultural inputs, and foodgrain purchases.  Recently, some PACSs have
also collected savings deposits from members and offered consumer loans.  In
many States, the credit performance of PACSs has been inadequate, due to weak
management, inadequate supervision and ineffective administrative control, a
limited resource base, and narrowly focussed services.  Rooted in the local
village power structure, PACSs are vulnerable to local pressures. Since



-6-
1973, GOI has encouraged amalgamation of PACSs to improve their operations,
management and profitability. Even profitable PACSs are often unable to
appraise and supervise a large volume of loans adequately. As a result, the
quality of lending is poor, and advances often fail to satisfy farmers' real
needs. The level of overdues is higher among PACSs than among DCCBs and
SCBs; repayment of PACSs to DCCBs and from DCCBs to SCBs is within reasonable
limits; in most States SCB recovery is 90% of demand.
2.03       SCB-s short-term borrowings from NABARD usually constitute up to
50% of the funds advanced to DCCBs. SCBs also provide medium-term finance,
particularly through IRDP. SCB's medium-term credit as a share of agricul-
tural credit has grown substantially in recent years, although from a very
small base; 5Z of NABARD term refinance went to SCBs in FY83184. Although
SCBs have been increasing their term lending, more than 952 of medium- and
long-term lending in agriculture is shared among CBs, LDBs and RRBs, with
NABARD providing refinance to all institutions.
B. Land Development Banks (LDBs)
2.04       In 1984, 19 States had LDBs; eight LDBs lend through their own
branches (1,007), while 11 LDBs refinance 889 affiliated Primary Land
Development Banks (PLDBs), which, in turn, lend through branches. LDBs only
provide 5-15 year loans for agricultural investments; they do not make
seasonal loans, do not accept deposits, nor lend for non-agricultural pur-
poses. LDBs service more than six million accounts. About 30% of LDB share
capital is owned by the respective State Government, and the balance by
cooperatives and farmers, who are normally required to deposit 5-10% of the
loan amount in their share accounts for the duration of the loan. LDBs and
PLDBs are managed by Boards of Directors, partly elected and partly
State-nominated, but State Governments may and do suspend the boards, some-
times for political reasons. The degree of control exercised by State
Governments over LDBs varies widely.
2.05       Total LDB lending has more than doubled in nominal terms from
FY79180 to FY83/84 (Rs 2.4 billion and Rs 5.7 billion respectively), but the
LDB annual share of NABARD refinance has dropped from 40% in 1979/80 to 30%
in 1984/85. LDBs lend predominantly for minor irrigation investments and
farm mechanization. The main sources of LDB funds are: (i) special develop-
ment debentures, which it sells to NABARD and State Governments, guaranteed
by the latter, bearing 6.5% - 8.0% interest, and retired in annual install-
ments over actual maturities (5 - 15 years) of loans to which they relate;
and (ii) ordinary debentures, floated on the wider institutional market at a
similar rate, guaranteed by the State Government and repayable in full at
maturity. The share of NABARD special debentures of LDBs new borrowings
decreased from about 70% in FY79/80 to 55% in FY82/83.
2.06       The performa-nce of a number of LDBs since 1970 has been less than
satisfactory. Most visible has been the poor recovery performance of some
banks, as detailed in para 2.17. Low recoveries reflect a generally low
quality of lending. LDB operating costs, with branches often covering very
large areas compared to those of other institutions, are generally high.



-7-
With interest rates and margins determined or. an all-India basis by RBI, and
with no flexibility to diversify their sources of funds or engage in more
profitable lending, LDBs face strong pressures to reduce their operational
costs. As a result, contacts between borrowers and LDB field staff are less
frequent than desirable. Some LDBs have up to 75% of their loan applications
and appraisals processed by State agricultural extension agents, who are paid
a fee for each submitted application. A overwhelming array of operational
directives also limit staff responsibilitv. Although chartered as independ-
ent cooperatives, LDBs are sometimes treated as if part of State Government
with Government staff normally posted to top management positions and fre-
quently changed. Not all LDBs are so affected however; the Punjab and
Haryana LDBs are strong, sound, and vigorous organizations with very low
overdues.
C. Commercial Banks (CBs)
2.07       CBs are comprised of 28 public sector banks, nationalized in 1969,
and 38 private sector banks. The public sector group consists of the State
Bank of India (SBI) with seven subsidiaries, and 20 other banks. With more
than 9,600 branches, SBI accounts for about 50% of the agricultural loans
made by CBs. The other public sector CBs have also well developed branch
networks in most parts of India, while private CBs operate on a much smaller
scale. The amount outstanding in agricultural loans by CBs increased from
Rs 2 billion and 270,000 accounts in June 1969 to Rs 53 billion and 12 mil-
lion accounts by March 1982. Of the total outstanding about 142 consisted of
"indirect lending" for crop storage, input stocks, and rural electrification.
The remainder (86Z) was for direct lending to farmers of which about 55% were
medium and long-term loans and the balance crop production loans. The north-
eastern States are the smallest recipients of CB loans, accounting for less
than 1%.
2.08       Refinance to CBs from ARDC/NABARD increased from Rs 0.3 billion
during FY69-74 period to Rs 5.7 billion in FY84/85. The CB share of
ARDC/NABARD refinance, which peaked at 56Z in FY79/80, amounted to 50X in
rY83/84, and 54Z in 1984/85. Deposits of all CBs grew tenfold frcm Rs 46
billion in 1969 to Rs 458 billion in FY82/83.
2.09       All CB loans to agriculture and small industries are insured by
the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC), to the extent
of 75% of the outstanding overdues. LDBs can join these schemes only if they
have less than 25% overdues; very few LDBs qualify. Claims paid by DICGC are
growing very rapidly and amounted to Rs 0.6 billion in 1983, of which 18%
were for agricultural loans. The rapid growth of the CB agricultural loan
portfolio and continuing high levels of overdues (para 2.20) and an explosive
growth of small industries claims have raised concerns about DICGC's ability
to meet future claims. DICGC is reviewing whether it should lower the per-
centage of the loan it guarantees and/or increase the fee it receives for its
services (currently 0.5% annually of loan amount outstanding for small
farmers and 0.75% for bigger farmers).



-8-
2.10       The main advantages of CBs over LDBs are: Ci) their ability to
provide short- and long-term credit; (ii) greater flexibility in lending
procedures and collateral requirements, as CBs increasingly provide loans
against hypothecation of assets created with the loan, which LDBs cannet;
(iii) their much stronger financial position allows some CBs to offer better
terms of service and, thus, attract more qualified technical staff; and
(iv) a two-way relationship with clients, who normally are depositors as well
as borrowers. Their disadvantages are relative newness to rural operations
and the urban orientation of many CB staff.
D. Regional Rural Banks (RRBs)
2.11      RRBs provide all banking services in rural areas and each RRB
usually confines operations to one or two districts. An RRB is sponsored by
a CB that contributed 15% of the share capital and provides management assis-
tance; GOI and the State Government contributed 50% and 35%, respectively, of
its share capital. Within India's multi-agency agricultural credit system,
RRBs were specifically established to lend to the weaker sections of the
population, those not having access to CBs. First established in 1975, the
number of RRBs has grown to 170 with 8,200 branches in 1984, covering 270 of
India's 411 districts. In FY83/84, the RRB loan portfolio totalled
Rs 4.7 billion, and RRBs received 10% of NABARD's refinance, compared to 2%
in FY79/80. RRB deposits stood at Rs 4.2 billion in FY83/84.
E. Staff Training
2.12      The huge size of the agricultural credit system dictates that
financial institutions are responsible for their own staff training. The
CBs, particularly the SBI group, have the largest training capacity. They
operate 27 staff colleges for their own long-term professional staff training
needs and 117 regional centers for lower-level staff courses. In addition,
they use RBI's College for Agricultural Bankers for technical subjects.
Institutions of a sponsoring CB largely train RRB professional staff. The
rapid growth of RRBs has necessitated additional training facilities: the
College for Agricultural Bankers provides courses for senior staff, while
NABARD's Bankers institute for Rural Development trains RRB staff only.
Training institutes within the cooperative banking system include a manage-
ment training institute in Poona, 17 cooperative training colleges for inter-
mediate-level training, and 86 cooperative training centers. In addition,
LDBs operate 14 junior-level training centers. SBI has the most satisfactory
training system; smaller CBs, RRBs and the cooperative banking structure
display serious weaknesses, training does not address needs, most courses are
academic and contribute little to practical operations. At the same time,
the demand for technical training, refresher courses, and practical "hands
ou" training in rural banking at all levels far exceeds supply. ARDC/NABARD
has been involved in training of staff of other financial institutions since
1975. The Bank Group assisted ARDC series of projects (paras 3.01-3.02) has
financed training for 10,500 senior and 23,155 junior staff of CBs, LDBs and
RRBs and 2,600 other officials. Financing of NABARD's training programs will
continue under this project (para 4.16 below). The present system of staff
training raises the question who should be responsible for the quality and



-9-
quantity of training, and who should monitor and control training.
ARDClNABARD's past involvement in training was to some extent ad-hoc to
satisfy immediate training needs, particularly of RRB staff. As detailed in
Annex 4, the agricultural credit review would assess training needs of
institutions, and develop a strategy and program to strengthen the capacity,
effectiveness and efficiency of staff training. It would also review
NABARD-s role in providing training to staff of client banks, and determine
NABARD-s role in monitoring and improving training quality and quantity. To
gain insight into the implications of a modified role, NABARD would initiate
and monitor an experimental training program for branch managers of a selec-
tion of banks. Aimed at improving the effectiveness of loan recovery and the
efficiency of the branch, it would combine training with simultaneous efforts
to address institutional factors impeding effective branch operations
(paras 5.10-5.12). If necessary, the program could be modified once the
agricultural credit review findings become available.
F. Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP)
2.13      IRDP was set up in FY78/79 as an amalgamation of existing rural
poverty-alleviation programs. It has become GOI's principal tool in address-
ing rural poverty, and together with the National Rural Employment Program,
has been accorded very high national priority. The Central and State Govern-
ments share in its expenditure; all rural credit institutions participate in
its financing. During the Sixth-Plan up to March 1984, about 12.6 million
families, including 4.7 million belonging to scheduled castes and tribes,
have been assisted, involving a government subsidy of Rs 11.9 billion
(US$1.0 billion) and institutional credit amounting to Rs 22.4 billion
(US$1.9 billion). Between FY79/80 and FY84/85, the share of NABARD refinance
for IRDP investments increased from about 1Z to 33% of annual NABARD disbur-
sements for specific schemes. The Seventh Plan emphasizes GOI's continued
commitment to poverty alleviation. IRDP focusses on all sectors of the rural
economy - agriculture, small industries, and services, and aims at realizing
productive investments, in conjunction with employment creation.
2.14      IRDP's target is to identify every year about 600 families below
the poverty line (with an annual income of Rs 3,500 or less from all sources)
in each of India's 5,011 blocks (subdivision of a district) and to provide
these selected beneficiaries with productive investments, which would allow
them to cross the poverty line. At the block level, IRDP is executed by a
District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), engaging block and village develop-
ment officers and extension workers. At the district level, IRDP operations
are headed by the Collector who supervises DRDA staff, and coordinated by a
district consultative committee, consisting of representatives of the par-
ticipating banks, NABARD, DRDA, and the Planning Department of the State
Government, which examines annual plans drawn up by DRDA for each block to
ensure availability of resources for planned investments, and to ensure the
technical and financial viability of the proposed investments. It then
prepares a banking plan and allocations by bank of the number and types of
investments. These plans are consolidated at the State level by a State



-10-
Consultative Committee involving all participating institutions. In for-
mulating such plans, GOI gives a priority to encourage agriculture invest-
ments with-.n the less developed states. 4] At the national level IRDP is
administered by the Ministry of Rural Development. Selection of
beneficiaries is based on household surveys conducted by block development
officers who also prepare loan applications. Central and State Governments
share the 25 - 50% subsidy that each IRDP beneficiary receives; the remaining
investment costs are financed by banks. Small and marginal farmers receive
25 - 33% subsidy with a maximum of Rs 3,000 each. Beneficiaries of
scheduled tribes receive 502 subsidy with a maximum of Rs 5,000. During
FY83/84, 14% of IRDP funds went to minor irrigation, 27% to dairy develop-
ment, 27% to other livestock, and 28Z to small businesses and other
categories. NABARD can refinance up to 90% of an IRDP loan. However, banks,
especially CBs, have historically been the major suppliers of credit under
IRDP. In FY83/84, banks disbursed Rs 7.7 billion, of which NABARD refinanced
Rs 2.1 billion, or 27%. NABARD expects its share to increase in the future.
2.15      Experience to date indicates that IRDP has reached a substantial
number of farmers, nlthough the target over the Sixth Plan Period--3,000
families per block or about 15 million families for the country for the five
years--was not met. Evaluations concluded that due to IRDP's rapid growth,
insufficient attention was paid to supervision and quality control. As a
result, an estimated 20% of IRDP investments have been misused and incremen-
tal income of IRDP investments has been much less than planned; fewer than
40% of beneficiaries crossed the poverty line. Studies point up the need for
more realistic selection of investments and planning at block and district
levels, a more equitable selection of beneficiaries and a more thorough
appraisal and supervision of implementation of investments. Since 1980, GOI
has become increasingly aware of the need to improve the institutional per-
formance of IRDP. However, GOI's heavy political commitment to IRDP's target
of nationwide implementation prevents more modest growth of the program. As
DRDA and the banks are involved in implementation, with DRDA primarily
addressing volume, and banks concerned about lending quality, IRDP is hard
pressed to satisfy both. GOI has strengthened coordination at block, dis-
trict, and state levels by instituting the consultative committees, improving
the capabilities of the DRDA, and streamlining planning procedures. Further
efforts are required. Overwhelmed by pressure to reach IRDP's lending tar-
gets, the banks, as a group, have not been able to maintain lending quality
in the IRDP program.  NABARD's involvement in IRDP has focussed on refinanc-
ing operations. It will need to play a more active role in assisting and
guiding the banks in maintaining appropriate standards of lending quality and
strengthening IRDP planning and supervision of implementation at the district
level. Measures to strengthen NABARD's role are detailed in para 5.06.
Further measures to improve IRDP's operations fall outside the scope of this
project and will be pursued as part of the Bank Group's country dialogue.
1/ Specifically, Arunchal Pradesh, Assam, Hanipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram,
Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal.



-11-
G. Credit Recovery and Eli2ibility Criteria
Overview
2.16      A high level of overdues (i.e. potential or actual bad debts) ..mong
constituent parts of the agricultural credit system is its most visible
problem. Reasons for high overdues, include willful default; weather and
natural calamities affecting crops; poor functioning of bank branches, par-
ticularly inadequate appraisal of investments, insufficient supervision of
implementation, follow-up and collection efforts; low interest rates; and
in some instances active discouragement of collection efforts by State
Governments and local groups for political reasons. Agro-climatic factors
complement institutional weaknesses. A state level comparison confirms an
inverse relationship between the general level of risk of agricultural opera-
tions and the level of loan recoveries. In addition, CBs which have to
fulfill the agriculture sector's share of their lending operations do not
press established, reliable borrowers for repayment on time, as this would
require further lending to naw borrowers. However, the prevalence of a high
level of overdues is specifically due to defective lending policies, ineffec-
tive field supervision, and a lack of concerted effort and will on the part
of bank boards of directors and staff to recover due loans. Recently GOI
has stressed the need to improve loan recovery performance requiring the
banking system to adopt firm measures to correct the present situation of
overdues.
Loan Recovery of Land Development Banks
2.17      Between 1974 and 1984, the average percentage of recoveries of all
LDBs ranged from a high of about 62% (1974) of total demand 1/ to a low of
48% (1980) (Annex 5, Table 2). The national average conceals wide variations
among States; Haryana, Kerala and Punjab consistently maintained high
recovery rates, while Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and West
Bengal had long periods of low recovery. But even within States LDB recovery
rates vary significantly. Among LDBs with low recoveries in the five States
mentioned above, 165 of their total of 876 branches, or 19Z had recoveries of
more than 75%, while 396 branches or 39% had recoveries of less than 40%
(Annex 5, Table 3). Although LDB branches in some districts have uniform low
recoveries, particularly in Maharashtra, West Bengal and to some extent
Gujarat, other districts (Tamil Nadu) display a mixture of high and low
recoveries among branches within a district.
2.18      Several State Governments provide substantial financial assistance
to their LDB (Annex 5, Table 1). During the ARDC IV project,
1/ Demand being defined as principal and interest due for the current year
in addition to overdues of previous years.



-12-
(Cr. 1209-IN/Ln. 2095-IN), the Bank Group agreed that four LDBs 1/ with high
overdues would be allowed to "block" chronically overdue accounts 2/. During
FY81/82 to FY83/84, Rs 609 million were "blocked" of which Rs 370 million
were in Maharashtra. Due to "blocked" accounts, States paid Rs 162 million
in overdue recoveries to the LDBs in FY81/82, Rs 330 million in FY82/83 and
Rs 326 million in FY83/84. Without such financial assistance, reported
recoveries for all LDBs for FY83/84 would have been less by 8 percentage
points; 51% instead of 59%.
Loan Recovery of Regional Rural Banks
2.19      As of June 1983, more than 57% of all RRB branches had recoveries
of less than 55% (Annex 5, Table 4). High overdues were concentrated in
Bihar, Maharashtra, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, while Andhra
Pradesh and Karnataka had a more satisfactory performance with only 25% and
35%, respectively, of their RRB branches having recoveries of less than 55%.
Loan Recovery of Commercial Banks
2.20      CB recoveries (on their entire short-term and term agricultural
portfolio) have been constant at about 52% of total demand for the past 10
years, during a period of rapid growth (Annex 5, Table 5). SBI has main-
tained a higher recovery percentage than the other banks. All banks in the
northeastern region have low recoveries. Of the six major States in terms of
volume of CB lending, recoveries in Punjab, at about 74 - 80%, have been
significantly above the all-India average. Recoveries in Maharashtra, on the
other hand, have been consistently below 50%.  In general, recoveries on term
loans (about 46%) are lower compared to those on short-term loans (about
59%).
Past Measures to Improve Loan Recovery
2.21      Since 1975, successive Bank Group-assisted projects--ARDC I-IV
(paras 3.01-3.02)--have attempted to improve loan recovery, primarily among
LDBs; ARDC IV introduced measures for CBs and RRBs. Key elements of these
efforts were various sets of eligibility criteria, initially applied to LDBs
and extended to CBs and RRBs in 1983, which imposed restrictions on
availability of all funds from NABARD to branches with inadequate recovery.
During ARDC III and IV, these eligibility criteria were augmented by specific
measures to improve the institutional performance of weak LDBs. Since LDBs
receive NABARD refinance for more than 50% of their funds, eligibility
criteria directly influence their total amount of lending. These eligibility
criteria, details of which have been subject to frequent revision, have
1/ Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, and Maharashtra.
2/ Chronic overdues are entered into a "blocked" account and the State
Government pays the LDB any shortfall in collecting the dues, generally
over a five-year period.



-13-
maintained one common characteristic; a branch/PLDB with recovery of more
than 75% has unlimited eligibility, while lower levels of recovery qualify
for declining amounts of refinance from NABARD. Between October 1978 and
December 1981 eligibility criteria in effect excluded branches/PLDBs from
refinance unless recovery exceeded 35% 1/. In 1982, to minimize the drastic
impact of cutoff of branches with recovery of less than 35%, the eligibility
criteria were modified allowing some refinancing to all branches/PLDBs, even
to those with minimal recovery. Recoveries improved initially, but have
declined gradually since then. The initial improvement was the result of
"blocking" of chronic overdues and their exclusion from annual demands and
interest remissions, and of the payments made by State Government to cover
the shortfall in recoveries of the "blocked" accounts, which were and con-
tinue to be counted as recoveries. The deterioration of recovery has
occurred, despite rapidly growing State assistance in some States and a
higher incidence of rephasing of accounts affected by natural calamities.
2.22      Under ARDC IV, eligibility criteria for CB and RRB branches closely
resembled those applicable to LDBs and provided for unlimited eligibility for
NABARD refinancing to branches with 652 recovery on their entire (short- and
long-term) portfolio 2/. If the parent CB or RRB had an overall 65% recovery
rate, their branches qualified for unlimited refinance, regardless of branch
performance, as were branches which were in operation for less than five
years and very small branches.   Below the 65% recovery level, the amount of
NABARD refinancing depended on cash recovery in previous years. Effectively,
there was no significant constraint to NABARD refinance. All loans made
prior to June 1972 and those for which DICGC had disbursed were not included
in the calculation of demand and recovery. The impact of eligibility on CBs
and, to some extent, on RRBs differed from LDB because: (i) agricultural
operations of CBs constitute only 15% of CB operations; (ii) NABARD refinance
is one of several sources of of CB and RRB funds; and (iii) CBs are
instructed to lend (including rediscounts) the equivalent of 60% of rural
deposits for rural purposes. With data on CB recovery not yet available for
FY83/84, the impact of these eligibility criteria is uncertain, but appears
to have been limited. By law, all banks are not allowed to make public their
write-offs and bad-debt reserves. LDBs generally do not write off loans;
they assume that all loans are fully secured by adequate mortgages, although
in practice execution of such security is often impossible. Through the
"blocking" facility, LDBs have come closest to writing off loans. However,
instead of creating reserves, State Governments guarantee repayment, which
has counted towards recovery. Eligibility criteria alone will not secure the
financial integrity of the financial institutions; adequate reserves to cover
1/ 45% minus 10% notional reduction on account of the State Governments
contribution to the LDBs' share capital.
7J/ 75% minus 10%, being the notional reduction on account of the State
Governments contribution to the LDB share capital, which was equally
applied to CBs.



-14-
doubtful debts are also required, while bad debts should be removed from
their books.
Rehabilitation
2.23      Under ARDC III and IV, eligibility criteria were combined with
attempts to rehabilitate weak LDBs. Under ARDC III, execution of a
rehabilitation program for each of six LDBs with very low recoveries was the
responsibility of the LDB concerned, assisted by ARDC; the program attempted
more rigorous action toward long-term defaulters, instituted "blocking" of
chronic overdues, rephased 1/ loans, and handling of incomplete investments.
State Governments were reluctant to agree formally to the rehabilitation
programs, although certain components were executed. Hore broadly based
rehabilitation efforts were instituted and agreed to by State Governments
during ARDC IV for the LDBs of Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu which collectively accounted for 60% of LDB loan
collection demand and 80% of all overdues. These rehabilitation programs,
supervised by a standing committee in ARDC, were drawn up by individual
groups of banking specialists and focussed on: (i) measures to reduce the
demand or increase recovery of the LDB portfolio, including "blocking" of
loans, rephasing and rescheduling 2/ (ii) removal of constraints on legal
action against defaulters; and (iii) revisions in operational and technical
directives, including those concerning personnel and training policies,
financial management, auditing, record keeping, and loan appraisal and super-
visory guidelines. Although the rehabilitative efforts had some impact on
lending procedures, staffing policies, and operational matters, they fell far
short of expectations. Their effectiveness was diluted by the relatively
short time period in which rehabilitation took place and by insufficient
control and guidance on the part of NABARD. Accordingly, only a portion of
the programs recommendations has been satisfactorily executed and effective
in improving operations.
2.24      In sum, the experience with the LDB rehabilitation programs indi-
cates that limited technical changes by themselves will not cause weak
institutions to perform better. The broad issues (institutional, lending
policies and procedures, credit delivery system and manpower) affecting LDB
operations and, to some extent, those of other banks need be addressed in
order to create a banking environment conducive to healthy lending operations
and growth. They will be addressed by the agricultural credit review
(para 4.04). Meanwhile, measures are necessary to prevent lending quality
from declining further and to effectively increase the rate of loan recovery
by the entire banking system. Although the effectiveness of eligibility
criteria for NABARD disbursements varies by institution depending on its need
for NABARD funds, only such criteria are available to influence recovery in
the short term. To compel weak institutions into action to strengthen
jj Spreading repayment for one year over the remaining installments.
II Allowing one or more extra year(s) for repayment.



-15-
recovery efforts, the eligibility criteria should allow lending units with
low levels of loan recovery a very limited access to NABARD refinance. Such
eligibility criteria should also provide incentives for lending units to
improve their recovery performance and, at the same time, penalize (through
further reduction of refinance facility) those units that do not demonstrate
improvement. Also, units should ascertain whether the loans have a realistic
repayment schedule and should deal with bad and doubtful debts. Assistance
from the parent banking institution is uecessary to accomplish these tasks,
and such assistance should be guided and supervised closely by NABARD.
Efforts to improve recovery and review the loan portfolios of weaker units
need be taken quickly. Such decisions should be made in a timely manner
because experience shows that sustained deprivation of NABARD funds without
specific assistance to improve recovery is ineffective and counterproductive.
2.25      The bank branch is the unit ultimately responsible for loan
recovery, and the logical unit to which eligibility criteria should be
applied.  In the past, an exception was made for PLDBs, small banks with a
limited number of branches operating in one district. PLDBs and RRBs, each
operating only at the district level, are sufficiently small to have
eligibility criteria applied toward their entire portfolio; for other banks,
criteria should apply toward the individual branches recovery performance on
term-loan portfolios. New eligibility criteria, combined with safeguards to
ensure the financial integrity of branches are detailed in paras 5.09-5.12.
III. PERFORMANCE OF BANK-GROUP FINANCED AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS IN INDIA
Introduction
3.01      The Bank Group has been involved in agricultural credit in India
since 1969. During the first five years it financed 10 State-based agricul-
tural credit projects, covering the country s major farming regions. Funds
were exclusively channelled through the Agricultural Refinance Corporation
(ARC) to State level LDBs. From 1975 onwards, the Bank Group ceased lending
through State-based projects and initiated a nationwide series of projects
through ARC's successor, ARDC; each project financed time slices of about two
years of ARDC's refinancing program. In addition, ARDC has taken an active
part in the formulation and implementation of another 25 completed Bank Group
projects that provided financial support for investments in specific agricul-
tural subsectors. The amount committed by the Bank Group for these 39
projects totalled US$2.4 billion.
3.02      The first 10 Credits mainly provided funds for State LDBs, and
facilitated close supervision of LDB operations, and individual project
conditionality tailored to the State credit system. In shifting to a nation-
wide approach by providing a general line of credit through ARDC, the Bank
Group assumed that ARDC had greater capability to supervise the operations of
the participating banks in view of its proximity and local knowledge, and
that a line of credit would allow complete coverage of Indian credit,
wherever conditions were appropriate, without being subjected to gaps and



-16-
periodic delays of the State-level system. A further advantage was the
increased opportunity to refinance CBs. While this opportunity had not been
precluded under the earlier, State-based projects, CBs only moved substan-
tially into long-term agricultural credit from the mid-70s.
Results of State-Based and ARDC Credit Proiects
3.03      Project completion reports and audits by the Operations Evaluation
Department have been prepared for the 10 State-based credit projects that
were financed by the Bank Group and for the ARDC I, II, and III projects,
while the completion report for the ARDC IV project is being prepared. These
reports indicate that the projects achieved physical targets, brought about
increased agricultural production, and improved agricultural incomes. The
ARDC series of projects coincided with rapid growth of agricultural lending
and ARDC disbursements, with a trend towards diversified (non-irrigation)
lending and an increasing focus on small farmers (through IRDP) and less
developed areas. In addition to the Bank Group's support to the ARDC series
of projects, bilateral donors and the European Community (EC) provided about
US$500 million to ARDC since 1976.
3.04      All Project Performance Audit Reports conclude that the State and
ARDC Credit Projects achieved their objectives. The Reports consistently
question the adequacy of lending margins and financial viability of some of
the smaller branches; the limited availabi'lity of groundwater, particularly
in hard rock areas receives also major coverage in all Reports (pars 4.21).
Increasing attention is paid to the worsening recovery situation; the ARDC II
Report is the first to ask for a review of future Bank Group assistance in
view of this issue. The ARDC I and II Reports also point to inadequate ARDC
review and supervision procedures and shortages of competent staff. The
Reports elaborate on the need for a balance between lending quality and
volume, but acknowledge the importance of growth.
3.05      The Bank Group's rapidly growing support to agricultural credit
allowed ARDC credit disbursements and agricultural credit to maintain its
rapid growth. But insufficient account was taken of the credit system's
inability to handle this growth; projects were appraised before the lessons
learned from earlier ones were understood and evaluated. As a result, the
fundamental factors affecting the credit system's performance received
limited attention. Limited supervision was inadequate to provide the data
and analysis necessary for investigating the system's problems. Con-
ditionality to maintain lending quality and impLvve recovery--eligibility
criteria--showed a gradually weakening between ARDC I and IV. Increasingly,
criteria facilitated adjustments by branches to improve their eligibility;
for example, State contributions to LDB capital were counted as recovery,
recoveries were measured six months after the due date and "blocking" of
accounts was allowed. The policy under ARDC III, of excluding branches with
high overdues from NABARD financing was discontinued under ARDC IV. Although
the ARDC projects increasingly emphasized rehabilitation of individual,
poorly performing LDBs, execution and results were below expectations, in
part, because fundamental variables (lending margins, quality control, train-
ing) were inadequately addressed. Wnile successful in supplying substantial



-17-
funding for minor irrigation and diversified investments, the projects were
unable to stem mounting overdues, and witnessed a deterioration of several
formerly strong LDBs and the increasing difficulties of the credit system to
maintain adequate control over lending quality.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Development Strategy
4.01      Institutional agricultural credit in India is playing an important
role in sectoral development, most successfully in the northwest where
production potential is high and supporting services adequately available.
Despite rapidly expanding operations in other selected parts of India. the
agricultural credit system has been less successful than in the northwest in
matching growth with the selection of high-return investments. Agricultural
potential in such areas is less promising, and risk is higher. The fundamen-
tally different nature of agricultural banking in areas of higher risk, more
poverty, lower financial liquidity, fewer services, and less potential has
been inadequately reflected in the policy framework in which the agricultural
credit system operates. Banking practices appropriate to an environment of
better-off farmers involved in low-risk, high-return operations are being
promoted in such different environments where the policy of low lending
margins, high disbursement targets, and mass-lending operations for
preselected beneficiaries have different consequences.
4.02      The various components of India-s multi-agency agricultural credit
system have reacted differently to rapid lending growth induced by Govern-
ment. The short-term cooperative system has been least effective in coping
with demand for quslity lending; its relatively slow growth in recent years
reflects disbursement limitations imposed because of inadequate recovery.
More importantly, ongoing efforts to formulate and implement a concept of a
viable and effective cooperative structure for short-term lending have not
succeeded. Concerning term credit, the LDB structure has been most con-
strained by its inability to provide services other than term-credit, and by
its inflexibility in obtaining funds, and has been most exposed to the
effects of risk in agriculture production. In some cases, LDBs are increas-
ingly dependent upon ad-hoc State financial assistance. CBs have been most
successful in dealing with the strain of high growth and a restrictive policy
environment. Subsidized by their dominant non-agricultural operations, as
well as by various concessions of RBI, and generally assisted by superior
management and financial resources, they have expanded very rapidly, while
particularly SBI has been introducing innovative lending strategies in
selected areas. They have been more flexible in their approach to agricul-
tural lending and more realistic in their assessment of and approach to
risks. Hovever, having reduced the impact of risks, through the DICGC, they
have become somewhat complacent about the level of incremental benefits being
generated by new investments, particularly in mass-lending schemes.



-18-
4.03       GOI s commitment to agricultural development and poverty allevia-
tion is likely to spur future growth of the agricultural credit system. The
challenge is whether the system's growth can be combined with necessary
improvements in lending quality, as reflected in selection of investments,
institutional performance, and recovery. Approaches to improving a fundamen-
tally intricate system require broad and firm but careful action, facilitat-
ing reasonable adjustments over time. The thrust of a long-term strategy
should be three pronged: in facilitating credit operations of all institu-
tions, it should recognize essential prerequisites for healthy operations,
taking into account regional differences in the agricultural environment; ir
should aim at strengthening and rehabilitating the performance of credit
institutions; and it should enhance monitoring, supervision, and quality
control functions of the apex level.
4.04      To formulate a strategy, and develop a program to execute it, the
proposed project would have GOI carry out an Agricultural Credit Review. The
Credit Review would include five studies of all major components of the
credit system (para 4.11) under the umbrella of a Senior Expert Group (SEG)
consisting of senior Indian and foreign specialists. The studies would bring
together existing knowledge of the credit system and add detailed analysis of
key components. Draft Terms of Reference agreed during negotiations are
detailed in Annex 4. Tne SEC would coordinate the studies, but its main task
would be to formulate a specific, timebound program of recommendations to
address the problems of the credit system, and ensure that these recommenda-
tions are technically sound and take account of India-s socio-political
environment. In parallel, the project would support and further expand
ongoing efforts to strengthen credit delivery at the village level. A pilot
scheme, commenced in October 1984 and involving all credit institutions in
three districts (para 4.13) under the supervision of NABARD, would be
expanded to 20 districts under the project (para 4.14). The experiences and
conclusions of the pilot scheme would complement the Credit Review by provid-
ing guidance on how credit operations and loan recovery can be improved at
various branch levels.
4.05       The final results of the Credit Review would be available in 1988;
thus they would not affect credit operations during the proposed project
period. To improve lending quality and improve loan recovery, short-term
measures would be required in the meantime, which, although not addressing
fundamental problems, would assist in keeping ongoing credit delivery on
track. Foremost, this short-term program would comprise of revised
eligibility criteria (para 5.09), under which badly performing branches would
have limited access to the refinancing facility of NABARD. This would be
combined with efforts to improve recovery and the lending portfolio and
financial position of weak branches (paras 5.10 - 5.12). The intention would
be to restrict new lending by institutions with clearly unacceptable levels
of recovery and to have NABARD focus its attention on ensuring that the
financial status of these institutions remains within acceptable norms.
Secondly, NABARD would streamline and improve its ongoing efforts to
rehabilitate weak LDBs (para 5.07). The third component would be aimed at
enhancing the lending quality of IRDP by strengthening its planning process
and by improving NABARD-s control over implementation, as detailed in



-19-
para 5.06. These measures, in conjunction with eligibility criteria, would
concentrate IRDP lending on better-performing institutions. The fourth
ccmponent would strengthen NABARD-s institutional performance, enhance the
effectiveness of NABARD's monitoring and control functions (paras 5.26 -
5.27); and improve NABARD staff training (para 5.08). These measures would
strengthen NABARD's capability to control and monitor credit delivery and
recovery, and to improve lending quality.
B. Proiect Genesis
4.06      In anticipation of the completion of ARDC IV (June 30, 1984). GOI
submitted a request for a NABARD Credit Project to the Bank Group in
April 1983.  However, in view of the unsatisfactory performance of ARDC IV,
the Bank Group was unable to appraise the proposed project at that time. In
January 1984, the Bank Group embarked upon a critical review of the ARDC
series of projects, which concluded that its involvement in agricultural
credit was highly desirable if it would lead to improvement in the credit
delivery and control system.
4.07      In June 1984, the Bank outlined the major problems of the agricul-
tural credit sector and made suggestions for corrective measures to GOI,
which gave its reaction in a detailed letter, on the basis of which the Bank
Group decided that conditions for its support for the proposed project would
be that: (i) GOI agree to a fundamental review of agricultural credit to be
undertaken in parallel with Bank Group financial support for NABARD;
(ii) where appropriate, necessary studies be undertaken by internationally
recruited consultants and be monitored, guided, and reviewed by a panel of
internationally recognized local and foreign experts; and (iii) any sub-
sequent NABARD Loan/Credit would be linked to satisfactory progress being
made on the formulation of a long-term strategy and program to improve
India-s system of agricultural credit, based on the findings of the
above-mentioned review, and to a start on implementation of the strategy.
Based on the above understanding, appraisal followed in December 1984.
C. Brief DescriDtion and Obiectives
4.08      The project's main objective would be to strengthen the agricul-
tural credit system and improve the quality of credit delivery; specifically,
it would initiate a series of institutional reforms in the agricultural
credit system, in general, and in NABARD, in particular. In so doing,
NABARD's role as apex institution in agricultural credit would be enhanced.
Its second objective would be to increase agricultural production, rural
income, and employment, while continuing emphasis on assistance to small
farmers. GOI regards NABARD lending as a key program in its agricultural
development plan and for national policies on poverty alleviation and employ-
ment creation.
4.09      The project would, over a three-year period, help finance, in part,
NABARD's medium- and long-term refinancing program to participating credit
institutions (CBs, LDBs, RRBs and SCBs). The project would also include
(i) execution of the Credit Review, (ii) implementation of the pilot scheme



-20-
in 20 districts to strengthen credit delivery and improve recovery; and
(iii) a component to support NABARD's training activities.
4.10      Contrary to practice under the ARDC series of projects, under the
proposed project a portion of the loan for NABARD's refinance program (US$340
million) would be disbursed in tranches, the release of which would be trig-
gered by introduction of revised eligibility criteria (para 5.09) and by the
progress in execution of the Credit Review (para 4.11). NABARD would
refinance minor irrigation, farm mechanization, plantation crops and hor-
ticulture, animal husbandry, forestry, fisheries, storage and markets, serv-
ices industries, and rural electrification. Bank Group finance would be
channelled through NABARD, which would refinance loans made by participating
banks in accordance with specific terms and conditions (Schedule A). Final
beneficiaries would be individuals or groups of farmers, cooperatives,
private and public sector companies and corporations, with more than 80% of
NABARD's operations expected to refinance lending to individual or small
groups of private sector borrowers. Lo_ns under IRDY, minor irrigation, and
farm mechanization would predominate NABARD's refinancing program for FY86/87
to FY88/89.
D. Detailed Features
Agricultural Credit Review
4.11      The main objective of the Credit Review would be to define a
program to strengthen tne agricultural credit system, in order to improve
lending quality, effectiveness, and credit services to farmers, while enhanc-
ing the effectiveness of supervision and control over agricultural credit
operations. The Credit Review would be executed under the general direction
of RBI. The complexity of the agricultural credit system in India, and the
intricate nature and sensitivity of the issues to be addressed necessitate
five separate studies. The studies would be executed by local and foreign
consulting groups; GOI has indicated it intends to engage foreign leadership
for Studies III and V. GOI would engage the SEG, which would consist of
seven specialists to be individually recruited to coordinate and guide the
five studies and to prepare an integrated final report. GOI has indicated it
intends to recruit about three foreign specialists for the SEG. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that GOI would engage consultants for
the SEG and consultancy firms for the Credit Review in accordance with Bank
guidelines, and would execute the Credit Review. Terms of Reference dis-
cussed during negotiations, with details outlined in Annex 4, are summarized
below:
(i)  Study I - Agricultural Credit in General would examine the role and
operations of the entire agricultural credit system, and assess
how within the framework of poverty alleviation and agricultural
development policies that role should evolve and which factors have
significant impact on its efficiency, effectiveness, and institu-
tional integrity.



-21-
(ii)  Study II - The Role and Effectiveness of Lendiny Institutions would
review a sample of LDBs, CBs, RRBs, SCBs, DCCBs and PACSs, and
analyze their effectiveness in their present role, their financial
structure, operational systems, and branch expansion policies, and
recommend if and how the role, structure, and functions of these
institutions should be adjusted.
(iii) Study III - The Role and Functions of the Apex Level in Agricul-
tural Credit would clarify and define the roles and functions of
NABARD and other apex level institutions involved in rural credit
and how such roles should be executed. It would formulate recom-
mendations concerning NABARD-s capital structure, legal mandate,
its relationship with RBI, the National Cooperative Development
Corporation (NCDC), and lending institutions, and its role in
improving lending quality and the institutional performance of
banks.
(iv)  Study IV - Lending Costs and Margins would assess whether lending
margins are appropriate in comparison to the costs of lending,
taking into account staffing and other operational costs of
properly functioning credit operations and the overdues situation.
The study would attempt an assessment of the bad-debt situation and
the amount of provisions necessary to remedy the situation and the
impact on landing margins. The study rould make recommendations
concerning appropriate lending margins for NABARD and the par-
ticipating banks and indicate how such margins should be realized.
(v) Study V - Organization and Management Study of NABARD would prepare
a set of recommendations and a timetable to strengthen NABARD's
operations. The study would assess how NABARD's institutional and
functional structure should be adjusted to reflect the recommenda-
tions of Studies I to IV, how its operational procedures should be
strengthened, its staffing and training policies and practices be
adjusted, its monitoring evaluation and inspection systems be
improved, and its institutional development efforts be enhanced.
4.12      GOI has established a Secretariat to assist the Credit Review and
SEG. Assurances were obtained that GOI would maintain this Secretariat with
adequate facilities to assist SEG in carrying out the Credit Review. Members
of the SEG would be selected by GOI in consultation with the Bank. SEG would
prepare a final report of general conclusions and recommendations for a
timebound program to rehabilitate the credit system. Implementation of the
Credit Review would be directly linked to disbursement of the various
tranches under the Loan, as detailed in Schedule B.
Pilot Scheme for Strengthening Agricultural Credit Delivery System
4.13      The pilot scheme for strengthening agricultural credit delivery
system and to improve recovery was initiated in March 1984 and commenced
field work in October 1984, in one district each in the States of Gujarat
(Sabarkantha), Madhya Pradesh (Hoshangabad) and Haharashtra (Aurangabad).



-22-
Agricultural production in each district is mainly rainfed, although a sub-
stantial irrigation command system does exist in Hoshangabad and there is
significant irrigated production in Sabarkantha and Aurangabad. The main
features of the pilot scheme are the initiation of systematic in-field con-
tacts of bank-branch staff with actual and potential borrowers, brought about
by provision of some additional staff, special pilot scheme training
activities, and supporting resources. The pilot scheme covers all institu-
tional agricultural credit operations *n each district. The scheme was
designed to overcome the commonly observed problems of limited contact of
farmers with bank-branch field staff; overly-ambitious and poorly organized
responsibilities of such field staff; their inadequate guidance, supervision,
and training; and the lack of focus on satisfying farmers- total credit
needs.  The objectives of the pilot project are to:
(i) increase the volume and quality of agricultural credit operations;
(ii) strengthen the agricultural credit delivery system at the branch
level; and
(iii) ensure a timely and sufficient supply of credit and its proper
utilization and repayment, by providing more intense bank branch
staff coverage and implementing appropriate flexibility in lending
terms and conditions.
The pilot scheme attempts to determine if these objectives can be achieved
through disposition of seriously overdue accounts; greater flexibility in
lending operations; limiting the workload of branch staff to reasonable
levels; a systematic, closely supervised program of staff work; and providing
regular, need-based training and linkages with lending policy-makers.
4.14    Although the pilot scheme in the first three districts was late in
starting, it is recognized by GOI/NABARD and the Bank that key elements of an
effective credit delivery system are now being addressed under the scheme.
Preliminary results also indicate a positive impact on lending institutions-
operations at the village level. Consequently, the proposed project would
finance an expansion of the scheme into 17 new districts, i.e., a total of 20
districts in all. Districts would be selected so as to bring a wide range of
districts under the pilot program covering as many states as possible.
Priority would also be given to those districts that have serious recovery
problems. NABARD would submit to the Bank, by June 1, 1986, a detailed
proposal which would, inter alia, identify the districts selected, the number
of banks and branches involved, and include a timetable for implementing the
Pilot program. Tentative total costs (Annex 1) for the pilot scheme are
estimated at about Rs 300 million (US$25 million). An amount of
USS25.0 million of the proposed loan has been allocated to finance 100% of
incremental staff, and operational costs and 95% of the costs of motor
vehicles and motorcycles for the staff of participating banks. Most of the
funds under this component would be passed on as grant by GOI to NABARD and
to the participating banks.



-23-
4.15      NABARD would be responsible for providing guidance to participating
banks on field training and for overall monitoring and evaluation of the
pilot scheme. NABARD has a pilot scheme cell and has appointed a full-time
District Project Officer for each district covered. NABARD would also estab-
lish procedures to regularly review the feedback from the pilot scheme. In
order to assess the results of the pilot program, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that NABARD would, by October 1, 1986, prepare an initial
evaluation of the pilot scheme, to be followed by a second review to be
completed by October 1, 1988.
NABARD-s Training Program
4.16    Training in agriculture credit and NABARD's role within this has been
described in para 2.12. As under previous ARDC series of projects, the Bank
will continue to support NABARD's programs for training of its own staff and
those of participating LDBs, RRBs, CBs and DCCBs. As part of its ongoing
efforts in this regard, NABARD has prepared a program for training activities
over the next three years, see Annex 1, Table 6. Up to US$6.5 million of
the proposed Bank loan will be available to reimburse NABARD (on grant basis)
for eligible expenses incurred for training activities during the project
period. These funds would be utilized for payment of participantsC per diem
and costs, lecturers fees, teaching material, and equipment as well as other
administrative costs of running NABARD's training facilities.
NABARD's Refinancing Program
4.17      NABARD's tentative refinancing program for the three years 1986187
to 1988/89 and resources to finance this program are indicated in Annex 3,
Table 4 and discussed in sections E and F of this chapter. The following
paragraphs describe and discuss some of the issues related to the principal
activities and subsectors supported by NABARD-s refinancing. NABARD would
also submit annual plans detailing the sectoral allocation of its funds to
the Bank Group prior to the start of each fiscal year.
Minor Irrigation
4.18      There is further scope for carefully planned investment in minor
irrigation in India. On an all-India basis, the current estimates are:
Ultimate           Presently          Investment
Potential          Irrigated          Potential
(M ha)             (M ha)              (M ha)
Groundwater             40                 28                  12
Surfacewater            15                  9                   6
Total                   55                 37                  18



-24-
Further investment particularly in less developed States in eastern India
appears desirable. Sixth Plan investments (through 1984) have resulted in an
annual increase of about 1.4 million ha per year, totalling some 7 million ha
of both groundwater and surface water. The Working Group on Minor Irrigation
for the Seventh Plan has called for an increase in area of 9.5 million ha,
8.2 million ha from groundwater and 1.3 million from surface water, or more
than half of the remaining 18 million ha. If these targets are achieved by
the end of the Seventh Plan, 85% of the ultimate minor irrigation potential
would be reached, and 90% of the groundwater potential. As detailed in
para 4.20, many areas would reach their potential much earlier, and
safeguards need be introduced to limit excessive exploitation. It is
expected that during the Seventh Plan investment in groundwater would slow
down and more attention would be paid to improvements in the efficiency of
water delivery and rehabilitation of poorly functioning systems.
4.19      Groundwater development would continue to be an important component
of lending in minor irrigation (85%). Investments by farmers would include
dugwells, dug-cum-borewells, shallow tubewells, filter points, deepening of
existing dugwells and adding bores to such wells, provision and replacement
of pumpsets, standby pumpsets, replacing diesel pumpsets by electric sets,
providing electric connections, piping irrigation water from the water source
to the field, provision of pump houses, provision of storage tanks, and at a
minor level, the provision of sprinkler and drip irrigation equipment. Costs
vary widely according to local conditions. Surface water schemes would
constitute about 15% of lending in the minor irrigation subsector. Schemes
would range from provision of a small pumpset to an individual farmer to lift
water from a river, canal, tank or lake to large public schemes involving
river intakes, pumping stations, storage tanks and a piped or lined channel
irrigation delivery system commanding several hundred hectares.
4.20      Performance of electric pumpsets has improved in recent years, but
still leaves much to be desired. Delays of two months to two years in
obtaining a power connection after a farmer invested in a well reflect a low
level of efficiency. A number of State Electricity Boards claim to supply a
connection within three to six months but in practice, procedures in sanc-
tioning connections are slow, although banks obtain electricity board confir-
mation that a connection would be made before a loan is sanctioned.
4.21      By the end of the Seventh Plan the most serious constraint to minor
irrigation development would be the danger of over-exploitation of
groundwater. Almost all of Indias 5,011 blocks have been evaluated to
determine the potential for further groundwater development; "white" areas
have no restrictions, "grey" areas require careful development, and "dark"
areas have no further potential. The latest position, detailed in the
project file, is summarized on page 25:



-25-
"Dark"    "Grey"    "White"
Percentage recharge pumped        80X      60-80%       60%       Total
Number of blocks                  377       596       4,038*      5,011
Percentage                          7         12         81         100
* Contains 82 blocks not assessed so far.
If, as stated earlier, 90% of ultimate development is reached during the
Seventh Plan, nearly all blocks would be "dark" or "grey" by the end of the
plan period. Punjab already has 60% "dark" and 22% "grey" blocks. Careful
monitoring of development by NABARD is, therefore, of utmost importance.
Assurances were obtained that NABARD would provide annually, up-to-date
assessments of lending potential for minor irrigation from State Groundwater
Organizations (SGO), evaluate those assessments, and ensure that the NABARD
lending program is compatible and that no lending is made in "dark" blocks
and that careful assessment of lending in "grey" blocks. The Bank would be
kept informed and would regularly visit SGOs during supervision missions.
While putting restrictions on finance to dark areas is effective in slowing
development, more fundamental steps should be taken to address the problem of
over-exploitation in the long run, because farmers with financial resources
cannot be prevented from constructing new wells in areas already
over-developed. Further, in some states, such as Karnataka, deep borewells
under construction are drying up adjacent dugwells financed under credit
programs. Political costs of restricting access to water are substantial.
Nevertheless, GOI would continue its dialogue with the States regarding a
legal framework for groundwater development to be applied to those States
where the problem is most serious and progressively to others as development
proceeds. In 1978, GOI formulated a draft groundwater law and sent it to the
States for comment. Progress needs to be made in processing this law.
4.22      The failure of wells is a serious problem affecting recovery of
investment in minor irrigation. On an all-India basis, the failure rate is
between 4% and 5%, but it varies widely. The outstanding need, identified
under ARDC IV, is for a "failed well compensation scheme." Karnataka has
introduced a satisfactorily working scheme, modified from a NABARD model and
funded by the State Government. Maharashtra has approved a similar scheme.
NABARD should encourage other States to introduce such a failed well compen-
sation scheme, and determine how such a scheme should be funded.
Dryland FarminR
4.23      Much of NABARD-s past financing has rightly been involved in
irrigated agriculture, but over the course of the Seventh Plan, opportunities
for further credit operations in new irrigation would be reduced as full
potential is gradually developed. The larger portion of India's cultivable
area relies on rainfall; some 42% of foodgrain production come from dryland



-26-
farming and more than 70% of pulses and oilseeds. NABARD financing of
dryland development schemes is limited to areas with annual rainfall in
excess of 750 mm, and there is scope for cautiously increasing this invest-
ment. Schemes are prepared on a watershed basis, and may consist of improved
crop production technology, dryland horticulture, forestry and pasture, and
livestock management. Crop loans and capital loans are advanced for bullocks
and improved implements, seed/fertilizer drills, land development, and water
tanks.
Land Development and Soil Conservation
4.24      The main land development activity carried out with NABARD
refinancing is land levelling, undertaken on land which has a slope of less
than 3%; the aim is to reduce the slope to between 0.4% and 0.62. Reflecting
limited demand in some areas and questionable economics, NABARD refinance has
been limited.
4.25      Soil conservation is undertaken to reduce losses of soil and to
conserve moisture, and activities financed may include simple bunding, con-
tour bunding, terracing and improved agricultural practices (strip cropping,
cross-slope cultivation and afforestation). Landscaping of black cotton
soils receives particular attention. Schemes are prepared on a watershed
basis by State Governments through Soil Conservation Departments or Land
Development Corporations.
4.26      The proportion of NABARD's refinance program devoted to land
development, dryland farming and soil conservation is relatively small, but
may be a larger proportion of future activity. Close liaison would be main-
tained with the proposed Bank Group-assisted project- A Pilot Project of
Watershed Development in Raiafed Areas', which initially provides for a
25,000 ha watershed development scheme, each in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka,
Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, and eventually four other watersheds in these
States, over a total area of about 250,000 ha.
Livestock
4.27      Livestock development (dairy, poultry, sheep, and goat rearing)
absorbed nearly 21% of NABARD-s total disbursement for schematic lending
during PY83/84. Of the total disbursements under IRDP, 75% was for invest-
ments in livestock subsector, but in recent years the percentage has
decreased. Almost all States in India now have major programs and schemes
for loans to borrowers to purchase milk cattle, which are ultimately funded
through NABARD. Such schemes, often for small or landless farmers, typically
provide for purchase of two buffaloes. As most borrowers are poor, they
receive substantial subsidies toward the cost of buffaloes, the balance being
financed through loans. Evaluation studies of such schemes point to several
problems: (i) deviation by borrowers from the intended pattern of investment
for two buffaloes and purchase of one instead; (ii) insufficient guidance to
farmers inexperienced in dairy practices and poor extension services for
animal husbandry; (iii) lack of quality animals; (iv) lack of support serv-
ices, including veterinary services, marketing arrangements and shortage of



-27-
fodder; (v) inadequate supervision by lending banks; and (vi) borrowers
frequently sell their animals quickly, depriving the banks of their loan
security. Evaluations of these schemes provide conflicting conclusions.
Some studies indicate major shortcomings, particularly if schemes were not
well prepared and supervised; other post-investment data indicate that finan-
cial rates of return for such investments, even without subsidy, are satis-
factory. In any event, the potential for misallocation of resources is
greater in livestock than in most other lending. Control over preparatiun
and implementation of these schemes needs to be strengthened by the banks and
by NABARD. NABARD intends to strengthen its technical staff dealing with
animal husbandry and dairy lending, both in headquarters and in its regional
offices and focus scheme supervision on dairy and animal husbandry schemes.
Other programs in dairy development which NABARD expects to continue to
finance include: establishment of breeding centers for quality and crossbred
cattle, semen banks, manufacture of cattle vaccines, fodder development,
milk-processing facilities, and slaughterhouses.
4.28      Approximately 50% of NABARD-s financing in poultry is for commer-
cial egg production. Schemes include broiler chicken production and
hatcheries for production of parent stock and manufacture of poultry vac-
cines. Many schemes (specially egg and broiler production) are for srall
farmers under IRDP. NABARD also intends to give increasing attention to
investments in cold storage, vending carts and transport facilities to
improve marketing of poultry products. Refinance facilities for production
of sheep, goats and pigs have become increasing important; there appears to
be considerable potential, and a steadily rising demand for such funds.
Plantations and Horticulture
4.29      ARDC/NABARD-s financial assistance to commercial plantations and
fruit crops have increased considerably since 1975, with an annual average
growth rate of about 36%. NABARD refinances tea, coffee, rubber, cardamon,
cashewnut, pepper and fruit crops (grapes, apple, mango, coconut, and citrus
fruits). Types of investments are planting; rehabilitation, rejuvenation and
infilling of existing fields; and support facilities and infrastructure such
as farm machinery, processing equipment, construction of living quarters,
farm roads, irrigation and drainage, and plant protection equipment. NABARD
expects continued growth in demand for institutional credit in this subsec-
tor. Recently, development of oil-bearing crops, medicinal plants, ornamen-
tals, flowers, and mushrooms and tree crop plantations (coffee, tea, and
rubber) in less developed areas is receiving special attention. NABARD
expects to focus its refinancing on increasing productivity through
high-density planting, cultivation of HYVs, and adoption of modern
technology.
Forestry
4.30      Forestry investments currently account for less than 1% of NABARD's
total disbursements, and support relatively large projects by State Forest
Corporations for tree plantation for timber and industrial raw material,
including such activities as establishment of nurseries, housing for labor,



-28-
workshops, processing units, and training and technical assistance. NABARD
expects continuing demand for funding. Other schemes financed by NABARD
involve mostly "social forestry" which includes farm forestry to supply fuel,
fodder and small timber along with wind brakes and shelter belts for
ecological balance.
Fisheries
4.31      Until 1981, the main portion of fishery-related lending was for
purchase of small shrimp trawlers; shrimp and fish in 1983 comprising 25% of
the value of all agricultural exports. With shrimp resources heavily
exploited in major sections of coastal waters, the demand for trawlers
declined, while in recent years NABARD initiated a highly successful policy
of cautious expansion in selected areas, (e.g. Orissa) with some growth
potential. Since 1981, NABARD refinancing for marine fisheries has declined
considerably in absolute and relative terms. Investment in other types of
vessels, notably specialized vessels and small motorized craft for close
in-shore fishing will continue, although demand is unlikely to grow substan-
tially. NABARD also supports loans to State Corporations, cooperatives, and
private companies for on-shore facilities (cold stores, ice plants, boat
repair facilities, netmaking plants, and marketing facilities).
4.32      About 75Z of NABARD disbursement to the fishing subsector pertains
to fresh-water and brackish-water fish culture schemes. Composit_ carp
culture by individuals, groups of fish culturists and companies has gained
increasing momentum in recent years. The high demand for fish and increasing
State Government support for fish culture are likely to induce rapid growth
in this subsector. Some NABARD lending would support and complement
large-scale hatchery development under the Inland Fishery Project
(Cr. 963-IN). NABARD refinancing would also support development of larger
water areas for fish culture and further development of hatcheries outside
the project area. Brackish-water shrimp culture, a new technology for India,
is increasingly being applied in areas with high potential. The technology
needs refinement to adjust to local circumstances, and lending would there-
fore, be confined to areas where sufficient experience with commercial or
pilot operations has been gained.
Storage
4.33      In accordance with GOI plans to increase national storage capacity,
NABARD would refinance loans for construction of storage godowns by private
investors, State Warehousing Corporations (SWCs), State Marketing Corpora-
tions and State Civil Supplies Departments. NABARD expects demand for
storage construction to increase substantially over the next five years, with
a provisional target of 5 million tons storage capacity comprising, 2.5
million tons for the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and 2.5 million tons for
private individuals who would initially lease the facilities to a SWC. The
technical aspects of these programs are handled by FCI and the SWC which
would supervise design and construction. NABARD would ensure that the
proposed investments would be in line with FCI's and the SCW's storage
requirements, based on carefully assessed demand for the area and commodities



-29-
concerned. NABARD would continue its regular coordination with FCI and the
SWCs concerning rents paid by them to individual storage owners.
4.34      Within the context of expanding the nationwide rural storage grid
of 200,000 small rural storages and 5,500 small marketing storages, plans
have been made to increase the availability of storages facilities, currently
with a capacity of less than 200 tons at the biock level, the bulk of which
would be handled by cooperatives. GOI endorsed the introduction of rural
storages to be owned by market committees or an SWC. Annual growth in rural
storage capacity of about 10% is envisaged for FY85/86-FY88/89, involving
both cooperative and rural storages. NABARD would ensure that its refinance
for such storage schemes would not overlap with NCDC efforts to finance
cooperative storages under the Third NCDC Credit Project (Cr. 1502-IN).
Markets
4.35      Improvement of marketing facilities has been given high priority in
GOI development plans to enforce the system of support prices for wheat and
rice and several other commodities, facilitate procurement of agricultural
commodities by FCI, and to ensure fair prices to the farmers. NABARD would,
therefore, continue to refinance loans to State Marketing Boards and Agricul-
tural Market Committees for construction, remodeling, or extension of regu-
lated market yards. NABARD has gained experience in appraising market yard
schemes as a result of about 180 markets refinanced to date, of which 94
markets under two IDA projects (Cr. 294-IN and Cr. 378-IN). India has about
5,000 regulated markets, in addition to 22,000 "shandies" or nonregulated
markets where the great majority of farmers dispose of their produce. A
thrust of the Seventh Plan is to expand further the system of regulated
markets. Experience, to date, indicates that in some areas, regulated
markets have had a positive impact on prices, but that in others, benefits
are more social than economic. NABARD would continue to assess the technical
and financial feasibility of market yard investments and ensure that current
or estimated future production necessitates an expansion of the capacity of
regulated markets.
Farm Mechanization
4.36      ARDC/NABARD refinances tractors and other farm equipment on a
selective basis, taking into consideration the need to avoid undesirable
effects on employment and income distribution, and also finances small
mechanized equipment, such as power tillers and agro-service centers provid-
ing maintenance and repair facilities to small- and medium-size farmers.
Because the attractiveness of tractors to many beneficiaries is not only
based on the agricultural benefits, but on social reasons as well, NABARD
recently instituted that future disbursements for mechanization would not
exceed 15% of its annual lending program, compared to 23% for FY83/84, and
that the refinance percentage for tractor loans to CBs be reduced from 75% to
50%, except in the eastern and northeastern region, where it will be 90%.



-30-
Non-Farm Rural Activities
4.37      The preamble to the NABARD Act places considerable emphasis on
provision of credit to cottage and village industrics, such as handlooms,
handicrafts, sericulture, marketing infrastructure, and the "tiny" industry
sector 1/. Institutional assistance to the artisan-based rural industrial
sector is mostly channelled through cooperatives. NABARD has proposed chan-
nelling credit to individuals or groups of artisans within, as well as out-
side the cooperative fold through DCCBs and CBs. NABARD would carefully
review bank appraisals of individual schemes, and allocate sufficient man-
power to this activity.
E. Proiect Costs
4.38      Total project costs, including a three-year time slice of NABARD-s
term lending program, are estimated at Rs 64.3 billion or US$5.4 billion as
summarized on page 31:
jj Total investments in the "tiny" industry subsector are less than
Rs 200,000; artisan loans receive NABARD refinance up to Rs 10,000.



-31-
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign  Total  Exchange
RsM                      USS H-              x
I. NkRDn-s Lending Program
Schematic Lending
Minor Irrigation/Land
Development                          16,960.0  1,884.5  18,844.5  1,413.3  157.0  1,570.4   10
Farm Mechanization                      8,008.9  1,413.3   9,422.2    667.4  117.8    785.2   15
IRDP and Other Innovative
Schemes /l                           18,267.3  1,166.0  19,433.3  1,522.3   97.2  1,619.4    6
Others (including Dairy,
Livestock, Plantations,
Fisheries, Forestry)                 10.629.5    559.4  11.188.9    885.8   46.6    932.4    5
53,865.7  5,023.2  58,888.9  4,488.8  418.6  4,907.4
Non-schematic Lending /2                3.966.6    991.7   4.958.3    330.6   82.6    413.2   20
57.832.3  6.014.9   63,847.2  4.819.4  501.2  5.320.6
II.   Pilot Scheme 13                     270.0      30.0     300.0      22.5    2.5      25.0   10
III.  Asricultural Credit Review 13        19.2      22.8       42.0      1.6    1.9       3.5   55
1r.  NHAARD's Training Programs /3         62.4      15.6      78.0       5.2    1.3       6.5   20
Total Project Cost                     58,183.9  6,083.3  64,267.2  4,848.7  506.9  5,355.6
The largest component of the project is the three-year (FY1986187 to
FY1988/89) refinancing program of NABARD estimated at Rs 63.8 billion (US$5.3
billion).  This tentative program is prepared by NABARD in consultation with
State Governments and relevant GOI ministeries, in order to coordinate
resources channelled through NABARD with the total investments under the
Seventh Plan. The regional and subsectoral allocations of the lending program
/1  Subsectoral allocation of funds within IRDP programs is determined
through an annual planning process and scheme approvals. Allocation
during FY83/84 was: dairy animals 27%, other animals 27%, minor irriga-
tion 14Z, and other investments 28%.
12  Comprises crop storage, input stocks and rural electrification.
13  See Annex 1, Tables 1, 5, and 6.



-32-
take into account the potential for agricultural development and the recent
performance by various states. NABARD revises its refinancing program peri-
odically to take into account changes in resource position, demand for
investment funds, changes in priority programs and any other factors
influencing overall supply and demand for NABARD's funds. In order to keep
the Bank informed of such changes, assurances were obtained that NABARD would
submit to the Bank, at the latest by June 30 of each year, beginning
June 1986, its detailed lending program for the ensuing fiscal year. Price
contingencies of 7.5Z, compounded annually, have been applied to cost
estimates for the pilot scheme, the Credit Review, and NABARD's Training
Programs.
F. Financing
4.39      Financing of the project would be as follows:
NABARD-s   Pilot   Training
Refinancing  Scheme  Program   Review               Total
(SM)     (S M)    (S M)    ($ M)    ($ M)   (Rs M)         %
Borrowers' equity         532.0          -        -        -      532.0   6,384.7      9.9
Participating banks'
contribution            957.7          -        -        -      957.7  11,492.5    17.9
NABARD's and GOIs
own funds             3,464.2          -        -        -   3,464.2  41,570.0    64.7
Bilateral aid /1           26.7          -        -        -       26.7     320.0      0.5
IDA/IBRD                  340.0       25.0     6.5       3.5      375.0   4.500.0      7.0
5,320.6      25.0      6.5      3.5   5,355.6  64,267.2  (100.0%)
A major portion of NABARD's refinancing program would be met through NABARD's
own funds, augmented by resources received from GOI and RBI (para 5.17).
Participating banks and borrowers' contributions would continue to finance
about 18% and 10%, respectively, of loans to farmers, leaving a balance of
US$366.7 million (7.5%) to be funded through external sources. US$340 mil-
lion of the proposed Bank loan (of US$375 million), would be available for
NABARD's refinancing program. Although this implies only a marginal (8.9%)
/1 Includes Dutch government aid of Fl 17 million and Deutsch Mark 55 mil-
lion from West Germany bilateral aid. Other cofinancing is not yet
confirmed.



-33-
contribution towards NABARD's total refinancing program, external resources
such as those of the Bank would enable NABARD to increase its total annual
refinancing over the project period of three years. An amount of US$25.0
million of the Bank loan is allocated to reimburse NABARD and the participant
banks for the costs of the pilot scheme, and US$6.5 million to finance
NABARD's training programs. Except for vehicles, all other costs related to
the pilot scheme would be reimbursed by GOI to NABARD and to participating
banks on grant basis. The balance of US$3.5 million would be used by GOI to
pay for the costs of the Credit Review. GOI and RABARD are discussing with
the United Kingdom, and the European Community, the possibility of additional
support to NABARD's refinancing during the project period.
4.40    The proposed Bank loan of US$375 million would be made to GOI on
standard terms. Of this amount, GOI would onlend US$340 million to NABARD in
accordance with Schedule A.1, i.e., at not less than 6.75% (less 0.25Z for
prompt repayment) per annum repayable within nine years, or at not less than
7.25Z (less 0.25%) per annum for funds to be repaid within 15 years. GOI
would bear the foreign exchange risk. These are the standard terms on which
GOI currently lends to NABARD for foreign assisted projects. Execution of
a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the Bank, between GOI and NABARD, as
regards onlending of US$340 million for NABARD's refinancing program would
be a condition of loan effectiveness.
G. Procurement
4.41    Procurement under schemes involving relatively small investments by
individual farmer's would be based on farmers choice through local dealers
and contractors. Typical items would be pumpsets, tubevells, dugwells, dairy
cattle, bullock carts, fishing boats, and farm mechanization equipment such
as tractors, power tillers, and sprayers. Normal commercial channels provide
an adequate choice of locally manufactured equipment and acceptable servicing
facilities, and both prices and quality are competitive with those on world
markets. Procurement under such schemes as construction of storage
warehouses, market yards, and agro-processing facilities would be based on
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to NABARD and the Bank.
International competitive bidding would not be practical given the relatively
small size of investments involved and their dispersal throughout the country
and over time.
4.42    Vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles and office equipment under the pilot
scheme would be purchased in small quantities at different periods by
numerous participating banks spread in twenty districts. In many cases banks
would make loans to field officers for purchase of motorcycles and bicycles.
As adequate maintenance and availability of spares would be of paramount
importance, locally made vehicles (and equipment) of types already used by
participating banks would be purchased through normal commercial channels.
For similar reasons NABARD's requirements for vehicles and equipment stag-
gered over a three-year period for the pilot scheme at 20 regional offices
and headquarters as well as for its training programs would also be procured
locally according to its existing procedures satisfactory to the Bank.



-34-
H. Disbursements
4.43    US$340 million of the Loan would be disbursed in four tranches for
NABARD's refinancing program. Disbursements of these tranches would be
conditional upon introduction of new eligibility criteria and satisfactory
progress in the execution of the Credit Review, as detailed in Schedule B.
The first disbursement of US$100 million would be released after effective-
ness when the new eligibility criteria (para 5.09) have been introduced and
once contracts have been signed by at least four of the seven SEG members.
The second tranche of US$80 million, would be released 12 months after the
first tranche, and would be contingent upon the receipt, in draft form, of
reports of at least two Credit Review Studies, and recruitment of the remain-
ing three SEG members. The third tranche of US$80 million, would be released
24 months after the first tranche, provided that the draft reports of the
remaining 3 studies have been received. of the final tranche of
US$80 million, 36 months after the first tranche, would be conditional upon
submission to the Bank in final form reports of all five studies along with
the SEG recormendations. In addition, prior to the release of each tranche,
NABARD would certify that the disbursed funds have been utilized for its
refinancing operations under the project.
4.44    NABARD would continue its custom of maintaining its supporting
documentation for its refinancing at a central location to be made available
to Bank Group staff for review on request during project supervision mis-
sions. Each application by the participating bank would be verified by
NABARD-s regional office, or (in the case of IRDP) by NABARD headquarters, to
ensure that it conforms with the agreed lending terms and conditions
(Schedule A) and with specific scheme-sanctioning conditions (para 5.19).
NABARD would check investments during its monitoring studies (para 5.26).
Both NABARD and the participating banks are subject to regular audits.
4.45    Disbursement for Credit Review (US$3.5 million), Pilot Scheme
(US$25.0 million) and NABARDs8 Training Programs (US$6.5 million) would be
made against actual expenditures. Bank disbursement would represent 95-100%
of total eligible expenditures relating to those components. Bank disburse-
ments for these components would be claimed against Statements of Expendi-
tures (SOEs) which would be separately audited annually.
4.46    Disbursement forecasts are shown in Annex 1, Table 7.  Actual disbur-
sements in previous rour ADRC projects were in accordance with, or slightly
ahead, of appraisal projections. Furthermore, major portion of the proposed
loan would be disbursed in tranches as stated above. For these reasons the
Bank-wide disbursement profile for agriculture credit projects, (which shows
only 41% disbursement in a three year period and full disbursement after
6.5 years) has not been used for this project.



-35-
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. The National Bank for ARriculture and Rural Development (NABARD)
5.01       Functions.  NABARD's main objective is to provide credit for
agricultural investments, by making funds available to approved institutions
and to refinance schemes which are economically and technically sound. Its
volume of refinance for term loans grew from an annual Rs 1.1 billion in
FY74/75 to Rs 8.8 billion in FY83/84, while NABARD-s short-term refinance
between FY82/83 and FY83/84 grew 11% to Rs 1.2 billion.
5.02       The rapid growth of refinance, particularly for term credit
largely in response to pressures to achieve GOI mandated lending targets, has
severely strained the capacity of NABARD to maintain the quality of its
refinancing activities. This reflects NABARD's limited ability to supervise
and control lending operations and the inability of the participating banks
to appraise and supervise schemes adequately. Throughout this period of
rapid growth, NABARD has maintained its practice of reviewing each investment
scheme. With the capacity to review at headquarters being limited, NABARD
increasingly delegated such appraisal to its regional offices; however, it
inadequately strengthened regional offices in terms of expertise and staff.
Scheme appraisals increasingly became desk reviews, comparing new schemes
with existing models. Meanwhile, with NABARD reviewing schemes, participat-
ing banks had limited incentives to improve their own scheme appraisal
(para 5.19). NABARD has not yet developed a policy to shift the basic
responsibility for scheme appraisals to participating banks where such
responsibility belongs, and how it should progressively limit its scrutiniz-
ing of individual schemes. Major constituent parts of the institutional
credit system still lack the technical skills, internal procedures, incentive
structure, and control mechanisms to ensure adequate lending quality.
NABARD-s ability to enforce improvements of lending quality, other than by
examining each scheme, has been severely hampered by uncertainty about its
role and mandate. The agricultural credit structure, with cooperative
institutions in the fold of the State Governments and CBs reporting to RBI,
requires NABARD to balance carefully its role in relation to the powers of
the States and RBI. Its legal mandate gives it little power to enforce
changes in operations of the banks, it only has power to withhold refinance
from unviable schemes. However, it has been reluctant to use this tool to
enforce scheme covenants and recommendations based on voluntary inspections
of banks. Instead, it has, with limited success, attempted to enforce com-
pliance through persuasion. NABARD's inability to ensure that participating
banks have the staff and competence to handle complicated investment schemes
may be a reflection of its unclear role and policy concerning participating
banks' staff training. As detailed in para 2.12, the staff training capacity
of participating banks, with the exception of some of the larger CBs for
their staff is inadequate in terms of volume or quality. At the same time,
NABARD's training division (para 5.08) is inadequate, both for NABARD's own
training efforts and for guiding training efforts of other banks. Also,
inadequate field supervision of scheme implementation by banks has been a
major factor in the deterioration of their lending quality. Unfortunately,



-36-
NABARD's ability to supervise implementation of some 24,000 ongoing schemes
has decreased, compared to the 1970s (ARDC), as a result of staff con-
straints.
5.03       OrRanization and Management.  NABARD is administered by a Board
of 14 directors appointed by GOI in consultation with RBI. The Board has
representatives from RBI (3), GOI (3), State Governments (3), cooperative
banks (2), CBs (1), and independent experts (2). RBI nominates one of its
Deputy Governors as Chairman. The Managing Director, who is the chief execu-
tive officer, is also appointed by RBI and is a member of the Board. He is
assisted by three Chief General Managers, a staff of 2,700, of which 1,600
are professionals; about half of the staff are located at the Head Office in
Bombay. The other staff is distributed among an office in Delhi to liaise
with GOI and 20 regional NABARD offices. Head office organization is shown
on chart WB 27140. Lending operations are conducted through three divisions
supported by financial, administrative, planning, evaluation and monitoring,
technical, and inspection sections. A typical regional office is organized
into scheme appraisal, monitoring, inspection and evaluaticn sections sup-
ported by an administrative section. NABARD's structure, inherited from
ARC/ARDC focusses on refinancing, but has been insufficiently adjusted to
reflect NABARD-s expansion and the need to monitor, control and improve
lending quality and strengthen the institutional development of its client
banks. Functional responsibilities are arbitrarily, and sometimes unclearly,
allocated to departments; coordination among departments is often inadequate
and management responsibilities allocated primarily on the basis of
seniority.
5.04       Staffinz.  NABARD has gone through a particularly turbulent period
concerning staffing following its establishment in 1982. Of ARDC's total
staff of 3,500 in 1982, 65Z opted to join RBI, while about 35Z joined NABARD
from RBI. Including other staff movements NABARD has lost a total of 2,809
of its staff (80Z) since 1982, while only 1,981 joined. Staff movements
predominantly affected junior professionals and clerical staff. Since 1982,
the number of professionals grew from 1,526 to 1,604. Fourteen of NABARD's
16 senior managers are scheduled to retire between 1985 and 1988. After a
long period of managerial succession based on seniority, it is currently
initiating plans for succession of its senior managers according to profes-
sional criteria. NABARD has made reasonable provision for technical staff at
headquarters, although delays in filling technical vacancies occur. The
demand for technical staff has been stronger at the regional offices and
staffing has generally been inadequate.
5.05       NABARD-s rapid growth and expanding responsibilities have accen-
tuated the need to focus on improving lending quality and recovery rates and
guiding client banks to improve institutional performance. Between 1982 and
1984, as recommended by a task force, NABARD made efforts to improve coor-
dination among various departments, but much more remains to be done. Under
the project, NABARD-s institutional problems would be addressed in two ways:
First, NABARD would institute a number of specific improvements of limited
magnitude, as detailed in paras 5.06 - 5.08 and 5.26, that would have
immediate impact on its performance. Secondly, as part of the Credit Review,



-37-
NABARD's role and functions would be studied (Study III) to be followed up
by an organization and management study Study V (para 4.11). The recommenda-
tions of these two Studies would be implemented during future projects.
5.06       Guidance for IRDP.  As detailed in Chapter 11, the institutional
performance of IRDP needs to be strengthened to improve the quality of the
investments financed under the program. NABARD can contribute to this
process by refusing to refinance IRDP activities of inadequate quality and by
improving coordination within the banking sector, maintaining closer control
over planning and implementation at the district and block levels, and
increasing monitoring and evaluation of IRDP scheme loans.  Accordingly,
assurances were obtained that NABARD would: (i) set up by June 30, 1986, an
IRDP task force comprising representatives of a selected number of banks, and
chaired by NABARD to review operational procedures, particularly at the
district level; (ii) develop by June 30, 1986, an IRDP planning and review
group in each regional NABARD office consisting of staff to be made directly
responsible for IRDP operations in each district of the State; (iii) set up
by June 30, 1986, a special cell at NABARD headquarters to coordinate and
monitor the work of these regional office groups, organize data collection,
and develop and enforce NABARD policy; and (iv) annually institute about 15
monitoring studies especially focussed on IRDP operations in selected dis-
tricts (pars 5.27).
5.07       Rehabilitation of LDBs.  Under the ARDC IV project, rehabilitation
programs for ten LDBs were initiated and partly executed, monitored by a
standing committee in ARDC/NABARD. As detailed in Chapter II, these programs
were somewhat narrow in their approach to improve LDB performance and lacked
performance-oriented targets. NABARD realized the need for continuing
guidance and control over institutional rehabilitation, and in 1982, created
an Institutional Development Department. So far the results of the
rehabilitation efforts have had little impact on the performance of the IDBs.
The Credit Review would examine LDB operations, but before its recommenda-
tions become available, ongoing LDB rehabilitation efforts would be made more
effective and be completed. To this end, assurances were obtained that an
assessment would be made by NABARD of which outstanding recommendations of
the LDB rehabilitation studies would be pursued during the next three years.
Moreover, NABARD, by August 31, 1986, would prepare a program for each of the
10 LDBs, focussing on specific, timebound, rehabilitative actions; each
program would be monitored by institutional development specialists specifi-
cally put in charge (see also para 5.12).
5.08        TraininR.  NABARD's training division's small staff of nine
senior professionals and 12 assistants is inadequate to perform its functions
satisfactorily. Almost 2,000 of NABARD's staff have joined since 1982, but
in 1983 and 1984, only 453 staff attended some form of training activity.
For its own staff, NABARD would require a training and development program
that identifies training needs, specifies objectives, and outlines training
methods and organize training accordingly. NABARD's long-term training
requirements would be reviewed under the Review Study V (para 4.11).
However, action is required to satisfy NABARD's immediate training needs for
the next three years. NABARD has prepared a Training Program for the three



-38-
years (1986/87 - 1988/89) which also includes an experimental training
program for branch managers of about 10 LDBs, 20 RRBs and 5 CBs. The program
to train about 25% of the managers of rural branches over an 18 month period
would be designed by training specialists of the banks concerned, and would
start with special courses for trainers of the banks' training institutes.
The program would demonstrate branch managers how to: (i) improve the effec-
tiveness of recovery efforts; (ii) enhance lending quality; and (iii) stream-
line branch administration. After having attended a training course, branch
managers would regularly return for short refresher courses, and provide
feedback on factors which hamper efficiency improvements of branches. The
banks concerned would commit themselves to use the feedback of the training
program to improve their branch operations. NABARD intends to appoint four
training specialists to coordinate and monitor design of the program and its
implementation; assisted by institutional development department staff, they
would guide the banks to effectively apply the feedback of the training
program. Assurances were obtained that NABARD would implement the above
training programs for branch managers and staff of the participating banks.
NABARD would consult with the Bank on periodic revisions of the training
program during implementation.
5.09    Eligibilitv Criteria.  Beginning July 1, 1986, all PLDBs, branches of
LDBs, CBs and RRBs, would be categorized, according to their recovery perfor-
mance, with a stepped-up increase effective January 1, 1988, as shown in the
table below. Branches in each category (except those in "Special Assistance
States") 1/ would be entitled to NABARD's refinance facility to the extent as
indicated.
Category        UP to 12/31/87        Effective 1/1/88
(-- (Annual Recovery Rate Z)
I             75 or more              75 or more
II                60-74                  65-74
III               36-59                  41-64
IV                 0-35                   0-40
Refinance Facility for Branches in Category
I    :  Unlimited Access
II   :  The highest amount lent in any of the last 5 years or
average recovered in previous 3 years, whichever is
greater.
1/ Existing (ARDC IV) eligibility criteria would continue to apply to
branches in States/Union territories of Arunchal Pradesh, Assam, Maniupur
Meghalaya, Muzoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura. Refinance to these
states is expected to be less than 2% of NABARD's refinancing program.



-39-
III      The amount recovered in the previous fiscal year or the
average amount recovered in past 3 years, whichever is
greater;
IV       During the first year in which a branch falls in this
category, refinancing would be limited to 75% of the amount
calculated as in the case of category III above. If the
branch remains in this category and fails to demonstrate
an improvement in its recovery of at least 7 percentage
points, refinancing would be further reduced to 50% in the
second and 25% in the third year of eligible refinancing as
determined for category III.
Annual calculations for recovery percentages would be based on cash
recoveries only, and any financial contribution of the Central or State
Governments, including subsidies, would not enter recovery calculations.
Other exceptions would also be excluded. For instance, the demand and
recovery of LDB "blocked" accounts, agreed by IDA and NABARD prior to
June 30, 1984, for LDBs under rehabilitation, would be excluded from
eligibility analyses. State assistance by subscription of equity could
continue as part of measures to strengthen the financial position of an LDB,
but the notional increase of recoveries by that amount would be disallowed.
Exemptions to exclude lending for IRDP or other special programs in determin-
ing the level of recovery would not be granted. The criteria would only
apply to the term lending and not to short term lending of CBs and RRBs.
Payments by DICGC and the loans to which they refer would be excluded from
recovery and demand calculations.
5.10    Application of the more stricter criteria is expected to result in
several branches falling in the lowest Category IV with restricted refinance
eligibility. Available data indicate, for example, that between 20-30X of
LDB branches in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal may fall in these categories and
in states of Bihar, Gujarat and Maharashtra, the proportion of branches
affected may be even higher. NABARD has a critical role to play in assisting
these branches to undertake a proper analysis of their portfolio, to assess
the underlying causes of poor recovery, and to deterrine the impact of such
poor performance on the banks financial status. NABARD also has an impor-
tant role in providing assistance in implementing corrective measures to
safeguard the financial soundness of such branches and possibly for improve-
ment in their lending operations.
5.11    As a first step in these efforts, NABARD has issued a series of
guidelines to participating banks to conduct case-by-case analysis of their
outstanding (and overdue) loans. As a result of these guidelines several
banks have identified some of the reasons for overdues (i.e., insufficient
grace period allowed, repayment terms not consistent with investment return
and relief measures where these were justified). Corrective measures mainly
rescheduling of loans are now being taken in accordance with the guidelines.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these guidelines would
continue to be implemented during the project.



-40-
5.12    NABARD, however, recognizes that such efforts to weak branches have
to be intensified and carried several steps further. Given the large number
of branches involved and NABARD's limited capacity, it would not be able to
handle all the branches falling in Category IV at the same time. In the
initial stage, therefore, NABARD intends to focus its attention on the LDBs
and PLDBs. NABARD, in this regard, would further analyse the portfolios of
weaker LDBs/PLDBs, make appropriate recommendations for write-offs, creation
of provisions for bad debts and encourage the banks and state governments
concerned to take such measures as necessary to safeguard the financial
status of the weak banks. In cases where NABARD concludes that a branch
cannot operate on a financially viable basis, it would make appropriate
recommendations for its merger. To this end, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that NABARD would strengthen its regional offices and Institu-
tional Development Department at headquarters, with experienced institutional
development specialists. NABARD has adopted guidelines for providing tem-
porary staff assistance to weaker branches to improve recovery and aid the
rehabilitation process, including mergers as appropriate. Assurances were
also obtained that these guidelines would be implemented during the project
period and that it would take such prompt actions as required to enforce its
recommendations, including suspension of its refinancing operations with
regard to any participating bank (except CBs) which after one year has not
satisfactorily complied with NABARD's major recommendations on matters, inter
alia, lending operations, financial position and management structure.
5.13       NARARD's Resource Position.   Apart from loan repayment, the main
sources of funds available to NABARD are retained profits, loans from GOI and
RBI, and capital from special funds.
(i)  Share Capital. Reserves and Retained Profits.  NABARD was established
with share capital of Rs 1.0 billion, held equally by GOI and RBI.
Since its establishment in 1982 until June 1985, NABARD has earned a
net income of Rs 4.2 billion which has been retained within NABARD
for lending operations. The retentions include allocations of Rs 3.2
billion to special funds as explained below.
(ii)  Long-Term Operation and Stabilization Funds.  These two funds amount-
ing to Rs 13.9 billion, and corresponding assets (mostly in loans
outstanding) were transferred from RBI to NABARD on its establishment
in 1982. They represent resources out of which RBI previously
financed medium- and long-term loans (the Long-Term Operations Fund)
and those that were utilized to convert short-term loans to the
cooperative banks and LDBs into medium- and long-term loans whenever
such conversion/debt restructure appeared necessary and appropriate
(Stabilization Fuid). Between FY1982/83 and FY84/85, the two funds
have been further augmented by contributions from RBI (Rs 9.1
billion) and transfer of part of NABARD's profits (Rs 3.2 billion).
In comparison to ARDC, these funds constitute a very significant
addition to resources available for on-lending and now constitute
about 45% of total NABARD resources (Annex 3, Table 1).



-41-
(iii)  Loans from GOI. Loans from GO  of Rs 16.2 billion as of June 1985,
represent the outstanding amounts in respect of Bank Group and other
externally assisted project funds being channelled through NABARD.
Of the total, approximately Rs 6.5 billion represents funds received
under ARDC I - IV, Rs 2.9 billion under 50 completed and ongoing Bank
Group projects, and Rs 4.4 billion from the United Kingdom, Canada,
West Germany, Switzerland, the United States, and the European Com-
munity.
(iv)  Loans from RBI. With the transfer of Long-Term Operation Fund (see
above), the only borrowings from RBI is now in respect of NABARD's
short-term operations. Currently, NABARD can borrow up to a maximum
of Rs 13.0 billion against this short-term facility, on a revolving
(annually renewable) basis.
5.14    Uses of Funds. Sectoral distribution of ARDC/NABARD's disbursements
1976-85 are shown in Annex 3, Table 3. On a cumulative basis, about 46% of
total disbursements has been for minor irrigation, followed by 192 for farm
mechanization. Disbursements against IRDP which only commenced in 1979/80
increased most rapidly and by June 1985 accounted for about 16% of NABARD's
cumulative disbursements.
5.15    0peratinR  Results and Financial Position.  NABARD's strong financial
status and satisfactory operating results are reflected in Summary Balance
Sheets and Income Statements in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2. The overall finan-
cial position has been strengthened considerably through the Long-Term Opera-
tion and Stabilization Funds mentioned above. Although under the NABARD Act
RBI may demand repayment of these funds, it is highly unlikely to do so.
These de-facto quasi-equity funds combined with its own capital and reserves,
result in a base of Rs 29.1 billion, compared to NABARD's total outside
borrowings and liabilities of Rs 29.3 billion (debt/equity ratio of 1:1) as
of June 1985. ARDC/NABARD has never had serious overdues or bad debts, and
current reserves (Rs 748 million) are adequate. Although there has been some
rescheduling of loans, the amounts are well within acceptable limits:
Rs 232 million (0.67% rescheduled of loans outstanding) in 1983, and
Rs 74 million, (0.2% rescheduled of loans outstanding) in 1984.
5.16    NABARD earned an average spread of 1.6% on its borrowed resources
in 1984/85. However, because of the availability of substantial Long-Term
Operation and Stabilization Funds (at no cost), the average spread on its
total resources amounted to 4.7%. Mainly as a result of these funds,
NABARD's net income (Rs 0.9 billion, 1.4 billion and Rs 1.8 billion in
FY82/83, FY83/84, and FY84/85, respectively) is significantly higher than
profits previously earned by ARDC. Net income in FY84/85 represented a
return of 34% on average equity funds. If quasi-equity funds are included
the return drops to 7%, which is probably not sufficient to maintain these
GOI resources in real terms.



-42-
5.17    Projected Resource Position.  To meet the currently planned levels
of refinancing by NARARD -- including refinancing of IRDP -- for 1985/86 -
1987/88 and to meet its debt repayment obligations, NABARD would require a
total of about Rs 49.8 billion (Annex 3, Table 4). Of this amount, about
Rs 27.1 billion is expected to be met through NABARD's internal cash (loan
repayments and retained profits), and Rs 5.3 billion through the issue of
bonds and sales of presently held securities. External sources of funds
identified to date (including US$340 million under the project, Deutsch Harks
55 million from West Germany and Fl 17 million from Dutch Government) amount
to about Rs 4.7 billion, leaving a balance of about Ra i2.7 billion to be met
by a fresh injection of funds from GOI/RBI. Of this amount RBI would provide
about Rs. 12.0 billion by way of annual allocation to the Long-Term Opera-
tions Fund. GOI/NABARD expect to mobilize further additional external funds
during the project period although these are not yet clearly identified.
Further resources would be provided by GOI/RBI to make up any shortfall in
NABARD's financing during the three years.
B. NABARD's LendinR Procedures
5.18    Participation in NABARD-Supported Schemes.  Under ongoing procedures,
schemes are prepared on the basis of State and district-level banking
programs and coordinated by NABARD's regional offices. Banks are sometimes
invited to participate in schemes already prepared by government agencies
(IRDP) or to prepare their own.
5.19    Appraisal.  Schemes are appraised by the participating bank, prior
to being submitted to NABARD for technical and financial reappraisal, usually
by its regional office. Appraisal quality differs substantially among banks.
Lack of staff and technical expertise are common, particularly at smaller
branches. Some LDBs, RRBs and smaller CBs do not have the core of agricul-
tural credit specialists the larger CBs have developed. As a result, unheal-
thy appraisal practices are increasingly common. Some LDBs use extension
staff for appraisal of loan applications on their behalf, and IRDP loan
applications prepared by DRDA staff are often accepted without appraisal by
banks. But even when banks do appraise an investment or scheme, increasingly
they indiscriminately apply appraisal guidelines issued by NABARD. With
NABARD appraisal guidelines often being outdated, particularly in cases of
lagging implementation, investment cost estimates and lending terms and
conditions become increasingly unrealistic. NABARD scheme appraisals suffer
from the low quality of proposals made by some banks and from limitations in
terms of staff and expertise at its regional offices. The solution, i.e., a
thorough appraisal of a representative sample of schemes, is not yet feasible
because the quality of proposals prepared by the banks varies so widely.
During implementation, monitoring of the schemes and covenants receives
inadequate attention, and NABARD is generally reluctant to stop disbursements
on ongoing schemes despite non-compliance with covenants. NABARD has recog-
nized this weakness and intends to institute procedures to monitor more
closely conditions specified in its sanctioning letter, stop disbursements in
cases where this is judged to be the final alternative to enforce compliance.



-43-
C. Lending Terms and Conditions
5.20    Current lending terms and conditions, fixed by GOI and NABARD, are
set out in Schedule A and summarized below. During negotiation assurances
were obtained that NABARD would continue to apply them to all of its
refinancing, irrespective of the source of NABARD's funds.
NABARD to           Participating Banks to
ParticipatinR Banks       Ultimate Borrowers
Loans for Minor Irrigation
and Land Development:
All borrowers                          6.5%                      10.0%
Loans for Diversified
Purposes:
(a) Small farmers, IRDP                6.5%                      10.0%
(b) Others                             8."%                     12.5%
Repayment periods allowed to ultimate borrowers are based on a cash flow
analysis and on borrowers repayment capacity, but generally do not exceed
nine years for pumpsets and 15 years for other minor irrigation loans, land
development, and other diversified lending. Repayment by banks to NABARD
extends up to two years beyond the amortization periods specified in loans to
ultimate borrowers refinanced by NABARD. Appropriate grace periods can be
allowed by banks and NABARD within the maximum repayment periods specified.
The above structure of interest rates allows NABARD a small margin on that
portion of Bank Group funds on-lent by GOI for 15 years.
5.21    The average annual inflation rate between FY78/79 and FY83/84, as
measured by the wholesale price index, has been 8.5%; from a high of 18.2% in
1980/81 the rate dropped to 2.3% in 1982/83 and increased again to 9.3% in
1983/84. The average annual inflation rate for FY84185 - FY89/90 is not
expected to exceed 7%. With existing interest rates to the ultimate bor-
rowers being between 10 - 12.5% (para 5.20), interest rates are positive.
Interest rates to farmers reflect GOI's aim of supporting agriculture through
interest rates which would stimulate investments in the sector.
5.22    Interest rate margins of banks involved in agricultural credit were
reviewed during ARDC III by the Committee on Interest Rate Spreads in the
Agricultural Lending Sector which concluded that a 3.5% overall spread would
be adequate for an LDB with reasonable turnover of funds and with a
reasonable level of bad debts, and recommended that uniform rates be main-
tained for LDBs, CBs and RRBs. Subsequent reviews of the sector revealed
that sound operations might require higher staffing levels, particularly if



-44-
operations cover a wide geographical area. In addition, there is insuffi-
cient knowledge regarding bad debts in agricultural loans and the margins
required to cover them. Given the issue's complexity and in view of close
ties between agricultural interest rates and the general structure of inter-
est rates in India, adequacy of the spread earned by the banks and NABARD
would be examined in Credit Review Study IV. Pending completion of the
study, no changes in the current structure are proposed.
D. Lending to Small Farmers
5.23    During ARDC III and IV, 60% and 55%, respectively, of the IBRD/IDA
Loan/Credit went to small farmers, as defined by ARDC--those cultivating land
that produces a maximvm net return to the farm family (before any proposed
improvements) of Rs 2,300 in 1972 prices. About 90% of all Indian farmers
are within the small-farmer category. The category's income limit has been
updated and converted into acreage norms for irrigated and non-irrigated
areas for different agroclimatic zones in each State. The 1983/84 all-India
norm of about Rs 4,700 based on an average family size of 4.45, is equivalent
to about US$89 per capita, which is below Bank estimates of the absolute
poverty level in rural India. To stimulate borrowing by small farmers,
NABARD provides down payment and maturity concessions to them (Schedule A),
while Central and State Governments have set up elaborate subsidy arrange-
ments to support small-farmer investments. In the past, some of these sub-
sidies have been used by the banks as "repayment" of loans. NABARD would
continue to support GOI and State programs to subsidize capital investments
by poor farmers (as under IRDP). However, as part of the new eligibility
criteria, GOI/NABARD have agreed that subsidies would not enter demand and
recovery calculations to establish eligibility for refinancing, and subsidies
would not be used for repayment of loans.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.24    Accounting and audit procedures would be as in the earlier Bank
Group-financed agricultural credit projects in India. Assurances were
obtained that NABARD would continue to be audited by an independent firm of
public accountants acceptable to the Bank, and forward its audited accounts
to the Bank within four months after the end of the fiscal year. Although
NABARD's latest audit has been qualified in respect of unreconciled sub-
sidiary accounts, audits are up-to-date and generally satisfactory. GOI
would maintain separate records and accounts for expenditures for the Credit
Review. It would provide the Bank copies of such accounts within six months
after the finalization of each fiscal year of the project and have such
accounts audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group, and
promptly upon finalization of such audit, furnish the Bank Group with a copy.
All withdrawals made under the loan on the basis of SOEs would also be
audited annually.
5.25    CBs are also audited by firms of qualified accountants and come under
the overall scrutiny of RBI. LDB accounts are audited by the Audit Section



-45-
of the State Cooperative Department. In addition, NABARD carries out peri-
odic voluntary inspections of LDBs and cooperative banks which include a
review of their operations, financial status, and where necessary, management
structure. While these inspections are thorough, and NABARD miakes sound
recommendations as a result, it has been reluctant to ensure compliance by
cooperative banks. RRBs are also inspected by NABARD, and while it has
authority to ensure compliance with recommendations, it has been hesitant to
enforce compliance concerning minor violations. Since implementation of
inspection recommendations is crucial for improving bank performance,
assurances were obtained that NABARD would discontinue disbursements to banks
which, after one calendar year, have not satisfactorily implemented NABARD's
major recommendations.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.26    NABARD has developed considerable expertise in ex-post evaluation
of schemes financed. However, mainly because of shortage of adequately
qualified and experienced staff, the targetted number of evaluation studies
agreed under ARDC IV has not yet been achieved: of the total of 50 studies
agreed to be completed under ARDC IV (20 by NABARD, 20 by CBs under NABARD
supervision, and 10 by outside research institutes), only 18 have been sub-
mitted to the Bank. The remaining are, however, at an advanced stage of
preparation and NARARD expects to complete the targetted number by March
1986. Evaluation studies are supplemented by "district-oriented-monitoring"
(DOM) under which a sample of beneficiaries and participating banks are
visited in order to monitor the results of selected schemes within the dis-
trict. Although NABARD attempts to cover each district at least once every
two years, actual results (and particularly reporting of these monitoring
activities) have fallen short of targets. In general, the quality of report-
ing is good.
5.27    While NABARD should continue to fix targets and ensure that these
are met, there is now a more critical need to establish procedures whereby
lessons learned under evaluation and monitoring are translated into actions
having a more direct impact on improving the quality of NABARD's lending for
new schemes. Recently, and in accordance with Bank recommendations, NABARD
has adopted procedures whereby its Board is now periodically informed of the
principal findings of the monitoring and DOM studies. The next stage is for
the Board to issue clear decisions as to the types of schemes/investments
which have proved to be unviable and should not be approved for financing by
NABARD. Recently NABARD has also adopted guidelines in this regard and
assurances were obtained that these guidelines would be implemented during
project implementation. Besides the completion of the 50 studies under
ARDC IV, NABARD plans to undertake 40 additional evaluation studies by June
1987, and about 100 district-oriented monitoring studies annually, of which
15 would Focus on IRDP operations (para 5.06).
5.28    Reporting.  For Bank Group-assisted projects, NABARD sends quarterly
reports in an agreed format and its annual reports to the Bank Group
regularly and punctually. Although these reports provide substantial details
of NABARD's refinancing operations, they fail to highlight the recovery



-46-
position of the banking system, institutional and operational developments
within NABARD, and the major problems experienced by NABARD in project execu-
tion. In order to implement the new eligibility criteria NABARD would need
to collect data more systematically, on branch recoveries and their perfor-
mance over a period. Essential data in this regard would be summarized and
included in periodic progress reports under the project. Assurances were
obtained that beginning September 30, 1986 NABARD would submit to the Bank,
quarterly progress reports in such scope as and detail as requested by the
Bank. NABARD would also prepare a project completion report not later than
six months after the Project closing date.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL
RETURNS TO PROJECT BENEFICIARIES
Production
6.01    Investments in minor irrigation and land development, would enable
farmers to intensify cultivation, raise crop yields, and shift to
higher-value crops. In an increasing number of States, these efforts would
be supported by improvements in extension services and research activities.
Given the country-wide nature of the project, substantial variation in the
phasing and composition of NABARD-s refinancing disbursements, and enormous
variation in cropping patterns across the country, providing reasonable
estimates of annual incremental production is impossible. The following
estimates indicate the likely order of magnitude of incremental production at
full development, that is, between one and four years after the investments
have been completed. 1/
Thousands of tons per annum
Rice                              1,950
Wheat                             2,200
Other cereals                       200
Total foodgrains                  4,350
Oilseeds                            450
Sugarcane                        6,450
Cotton                             300
Valued at 1983/84 farmgate prices, these estimated production increases would
amount to some Rs 13,500 million (US$1,125 million), of which about 70% would
be foodgrains. Diversified lending would lead to incremental production in
milk, eggs, wool, fish and shrimp and plantation/horticulture crops such as
coffee, tea, coconuts, cashewnuts, pineapples, apples, and grapes, many of
jj Based on a NABARD refinancing program over three years.



-47-
which are destined for export or would reduce import requirpments. The value
of incremental output for diversified lending at full development might be in
the order of Rs 4,100 million (US$342 million) making the total value of
project induced annual incremental production Rs 17,600 million (US$1,467
million) at project maturity.
Marketing and Prices
6.02    The incremental production of foodgrains under the project
(4.3 million tons) would amount to approximately 3% of India's 1983/84
production. Although widely dispersed throughout the country, the successful
storage and marketing of this output would be linked to infrastructural
investments of 5.0 million tons storage capacity as envisaged under the
project. Marketable surpluses of other products are unlikely to be sig-
nificant in relation to domestic and foreign outlets. Plantation crops are
often connected to established markets, and any excess over domestic supply
is usually exportable. In other product areas, scheme appraisals would
assess marketing opportunities. Demand for poultry, eggs, fish, milk, and
meat grows rapidly, particularly in urban centers; incremental output would
be small compared to existing supply and could be absorbed through existing
marketing channels.
6.03    Agricultural output is sold in a market in which output prices,
particularly for foodgrains, respond to variations in supply and demand.
Regarding major foodgrains, Government intervention is limited to the provi-
sion of minimum support prices set annually by the Agricultural Prices Com-
mission and by the States. These support prices are established at levels
to meet the twin objectives of ensuring adequate urban supplies and of build-
ing up reserve stocks. However, farmers are free to sell their produce at
open market prices, which can and do range well above support prices.  The
level of agricultural taxation varies among States; in general, it is well
below taxation of other sectors, consistent with the national objective of
providing farmers financial incentives to increase production.
Financial Analysis
6.04    Under the project, an extremely wide range of investments in many
different locations and under different circumstances would be undertaken.
NABARD has some 24,000 schemes under implementation, many of which include
more than one investment type. Due to this overwhelming variety, the
analysis of the financial impact of project investments at the borrower level
cannot claim to be representative; the models only illustrate the likely
impact of a fraction of NABARD's investments. NABARD has, through evaluation
and other studies, obtained ex post farm models of a variety of investments.
The 12 models presented in the financial and economic analysis of this report
are based on these sources. Model details are available in the Project File,
and a simmary of the results is presented in Annex 2. Investments are
generally profitable; for minor irrigation investments financial rates of
return range from 10% to 31%. These returns are attained on full investment
costs without taking into account a possible subsidy to farmers. Production
gains, particularly on larger farms (of 10-20 acres), come from increases in



-48-
crop intensity, adoption of HYVs, and transition from rainfed to partially
irrigated farming. Investments on small farms (about 5 acres), which are
already partially irrigated, tend to have a lower rate of return. For diver-
sified investments, relatively high rates of return are obtained, in part
because they are based on investments assumed to have been completed without
major problems. The evaluation studies on which these models are based
indicate that a varying percentage of borrowers under each type of these
schemes does not necessarily achieve the returns indicated. The models
nevertheless show that investments financed by NABARD were financially viable
and that incremental returns were sufficient to support debt repayment.
VII. BENEFITS, RISKS, AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
7.01    Besides generating measurable productive benefits, the central aim of
the project would be to strengthen the institutional framework of agricul-
tural credit in India. Improvements in the operation of NABARD and the
management and operations of the institutional credit system as a whole would
significantly add to ongoing efforts to strengthen the agricultural produc-
tion svstem, and ensure more efficient utilization of agricultural
infrastructure and financial resources. The project would fit well in the
Bank Group's agriculture sector strategy, which seeks to emphasize greater
selectivity in public investments, better support services, and more effi-
cient management of the agricultural institutions and investments undertaken
by GOI and State Governments. The project would be instrumental in improving
credit delivery at the village level and a developing program to address
broad sectoral and institutional problems of NABARD and the participating
banks. Finally, it would encourage a greater attention to the problem of
overdue agricultural loans and provide the participating banks with an incen-
tive to improve their loan recovery performance.
7.02    The project would increase agricultural production (para 6.02),
including forestry and fishery products. Increased foodgrain production
would consolidate recent gains, which provided India foodgrain self suf-
ficiency, lessening the need for imports in less productive years, facilitate
maintenance of adequate stocks and exports. Incremental oilseed and cotton,
and copra production would save foreign exchange by reducing the need for
imports, while increases in the output of plantation crops, sugarcane, shrimp
and fish would bolster export earnings.
Beneficiaries
7.03    It is estimated that some five million farmers throughout India would
directly benefit from the project. About 60% of the farmers would be small,
with annual per capita incomes of less than Rs 1,070 (US$89). The employment
effect depends on many factors. Assuming that each Rs 1.0 million (in 1984
prices) of NABARD refinance would generate 7,000 man-days in construction
employment and 6,500 man-days of permanent employment, the project would



-49-
create 375 million man-days of construction employment and 350 million
man-days permanent employment.
Environmental Effects
7.04    No adverse effects on environmental conditions are expected from the
project. Soil conservation and land reclamation components would alleviate
problems of soil erosion, salinity, and water logging. Forestry schemes
would promote better soil conservation and reduce wind erosion.
Economic Analysis
7.05    Economic rates of return and sensitivity tests for the minor irriga-
tion models show rates of return of up to 22%, with low rates of return
pertaining to shallow tubewells for smaller farms augmenting existing surface
irrigation systems (Annex 2, Table 2). Economic returns are sensitive to
increases in costs and a drop in revenues (Annex 2, Table 3). Economic rates
of return for minor irrigation investments are lower than financial rates
on account of the major indirect subsidy that farmers receive when getting an
electricity connection. For diversified investments, economic rates of
return range from 15% to 54% and, with the exception of investments in dairy,
are not very sensitive to cost increases and a reduction in benefits. NABARD
and the participating banks do not calculate economic rates of return for
scheme appraisals and post-investment evaluation studies. While it is recog-
nized that NAMED should eventually undertake economic analysis of scbemes it
refinances, foremost, it should concentrate on improving the quality of
technical and financial appraisal.
Project Risks
7.06    The risk that the project would not succeed in achieving its objec-
tives, particularly those concerning institutional development, exists. The
greatest risk concerns the willingness and ability of GOI and the States to
remain committed to the projects' objectives until the benefits clearly
outweigh the initially considerable political costs. The strongest commit-
ment to strengthen agricultural credit rests with NABARD, RBI, and the Minis-
try of Finance. This commitment is likely to continue and could be further
enhanced by indications of continued Bank Group involvement in the sector.
Opposition to changes in the credit system and operations could be reduced by
highly professional implementation of the Credit Review and project supervi-
sion sensitive to the political environment in which agriculture credit
functions. The second risk concerns NABARD's ability to supervise lending
operations effectively and control improvement of the credit system. The
roles and authority of the apex institutions of the credit system are
governed, in part, by practical and political realities. NABARD has been
reluctant to enforce its legal mandate, opting instead for moral persuasion,
thereby acknowledging the risk that heavy-handed enforcement of its require-
ments might be harmful to its overall relations with the States. The project
in part, is designed to strengthen NABARD's position vis-a-vis the par-
ticipating banks and States. The Credit Review would pay particular atten-
tion to NABARD's role and functions and its relations with client banks. The



-50-
third risk would be continuation of low levels of loan recovery by the par-
ticipating banks, particularly of the weaker branches eligible for restricted
NABARD refinancing. To reduce this risk, the project would introduce arran-
gements to strengthen the financial position of these institutions and
provide assistance to improve recovery. By introducing a variety of opera-
tional improvements, NABARD's appraisal and supervisory practices would be
strengthened, aiming at improving lending quality.
VIII.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    The following agreements, reached with GOI during negotiation have
been incorporated in the draft Credit Agreement:
(a) It would engage consultants for the SEG and consultancy firms for the
Credit Review in accordance with Bank guidelines, and would execute
the Credit Review (para 4.11);
(b) It would maintain a Secretariat to assist the SEG in carrying out the
Review (para 4.12);
(c) It would onlend US$340 million from the Loan to NABARD for its
refinancing program in accordance with Schedule A.1 and make avail-
able to NABARD, as grant, US$31.5 million for the Pilot Scheme and
NABARD s training programs (para 4.40);
(d) It would maintain separate records and accounts for expenditures
under the Credit Review; it would provide the Bank Group copies of
such accounts within six months after the finalization of each fiscal
year of the project, and have such accounts audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank Group, and promptly upon finalization
of such audit, furnish the Bank Group with a copy (para 5.24)
8.02       Agreements reached with NABARD during negotiation and incorporated
in the draft Project Agreement are as follows:
(a) It would extend the pilot scheme, to 20 districts and, by October 1,
1986, prepare an initial evaluation on the experience of the pilot
scheme, to be followed by a second review to be completed by
October 1, 1988 (para 4.14-4.15);
(b) Commencing June 30, 1986 and every year thereafter, provide the Bank
with an up-to-date assessment of lending potential for groundwater
based minor irrigation from SGO's of the States, including an
analysis of the compatability of the Refinancing Program and the
lending potential for such groundwater based minor irrigation invest-
ments (para 4.21);



-51-
(c) Commencing June 30, 1986, and by June 30 each year, NABARD would
provide the Bank its detailed Refinancing Program (including a sec-
toral allocation of its lending program) for the ensuing year
(para 4.38);
(d) That the procurement under the project would be as outlined in
paragraphs 4.41 and 4.42;
(e) It would establish, by June 30, 1986, (i) an IRDP task force compris-
ing representatives of a selected number of banks and chaired by
NABARD tc review operational procedures particularly at the district
level; (ii) an IRDP planning and review group in each regional NABARD
office consisting of staff to be made directly responsible for IRDP
operations in each district of the State; and {iii) a special cell at
NABARD headquarters to coordinate and monitor the work of these
regional office groups, organize data collection, and develop and
enforce NABARD policy (para 5.06);
(f) By August 31, 1986, it would submit to the Bank, for its review and
comments, rehabilitation programs for each of the 10 LDBs currently
under rehabilitation and thereafter implement such programs taking
into account the Bank's comments if any (para 5.07);
Cg) It would implement an agreed training program for (a) selected branch
managers of about 10 LDBs, 20 RRBs, and 5 CBs, and (ii) training of
NABARD's and participating banks' staff in rural banking operations
and management during the project period (para 5.08);
(h) Commencing July 1, 1986, it would replace existing eligibility
criteria with those set out in Schedule D (para 5.09);
(i) It would implement guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
case-by-case analysis of accounts of bank branches (paras 5.11);
Cj) It would implement a plan satisfactory to the Bank to staff its
regional offices and the Institutional Development Department with
sufficient institutional development specialists (para 5.12);
(k) It would implement guidelines satisfactory to the Bank for
(i) providing temporary staff assistance to LDB branches and PLDBs
which fall in the fourth category of the eligibility criteria in
order to aid recovery and rehabilitation, and (ii) for mergers of LDB
branches and PLDBs where appropriate (para 5.12);
(1) It would take such prompt actions as required to enforce its recom-
mendations, including suspension of its refinancing operations with
regard to any participating Bank (except CBs) which, after one calen-
dar year has not satisfactorily complied with NABARD's major recom-
mendations on matters, inter alia, lending operations, financial
position and management structure (paras 5.12 and 5.25);



-52-
(m) It would apply the lending terms and conditions as detailed in
Schedule A to all its refinancing, irrespective of the source of
funds (para 5.20);
(n) It would be audited by an independent firm of public accountants
acceptable to the Bank Group, and forward its audited accounts to the
Bank Group within four montbs after the end of the fiscal year (para
5.24);
(o) It would implement guidelines satisfactory to the Bank on monitoring
and evaluation of credit operations under the Refinancing Program
(para 5.27); and
(p) Beginning September 30, 1986 and every quarter thereafter, it would
submit project progress reports to the Bank of such scope and detail
as reasonably requested by the Bank (para 5.28).
8.03       A condition of Loan Effectiveness would be the execution of a
subsidiary agreement between GOI and NABARD incorporating terms and condi-
tions in Schedule A.
8.04    The following matters were also discussed and understandings reached:
(a) The Terms of Reference for the Senior Expert Group and the five
studies would be as per Annex 4 of this report (para 4.11).
(b) NABARD would, by June 1, 1986, submit a detailed proposal regarding
extension of the pilot scheme including districts selected, number
of banks and branches involved and a timetable for implementation,
which would commence by July 1, 1986 (para 4.14).
(c) NABARD confirmed that it would undertake about 100 District-Oriented
Monitoring (DOM) studies each year of which at least 15 would focus
on IRDP (para 5.27).
8.07       With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IBRD Loan of US$375 million.



-53-                         Schedule A
Page 1
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Lending Terms and Conditions
1. From GOI to NABARD:
(a) For NABARD refinancing up to nine years, annual interest rate of not
less than 6.75Z, less 0.25% for repayment of principal and interest
by the due dates;
(b) For NABARD refinancing for more than nine and up to 15 years, annual
interest rate of not less than 7.25%, less 0.25% for repayment of
principal and interest by the due dates; and
(c) GOI to bear the foreign exchange risk.
2. NABARD to Participating Banks:
(a) Interest rate to be not less than 6.5% per annum for minor irriga-
tion, 6.5% per annum for diversified lending under IRDP and to small
farmers, and 8.0% per annum for all other diversified lending;
(b) Repayment installments to coincide approximately with collections
from ultimate borrowers; and
xc) Refinancing to be by purchase of debentures or by loans, generally up
to 95% of individual loans.
3. Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers:
A.  Minor Irrigation (including Land Development. Soil Conservation, and
Reclamation)
(a) Interest rate to be not less than 10.0% per annum;
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost of project
investment may be charged; this fee may be waived with the
concurrence of NABARD;
(c)  Farmers  contribution (including obligatory purchase of LDB
shares, own labor, and other contributions in cash or kind);



-54-                        Schedule A
Page 2
(i)  for lending to small farmers, a minimum 5% of investment
cost;
(ii)  for farmers cultivating land that provides a
pre-development net return of Rs 2,001 to Rs 3,500 (1972
prices) to family resources, a minimum of 10% of the
investment cost. (For the purpose of determining the said
net returns, the criteria set forth in Annexure 1 of this
Schedule shall apply);
(iii) for other farmers, a minimum of 10% 1/ of the cost of
pumpsets and 15% 2/ for other minor irrigation investments;
and
(iv)  for other borrowers, a minimum of 10%.
Provided, however that in cases where the total loan amount is
Rs 5,000 or less, the borrower's contribution in the investment
shall not be required.
(d)  Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's repay-
ment capacity, but generally not to exceed;
For Lending to Small Farmers:
'i) Nine years on loans for pumpsets, whether financed as
separate loans or included in minor irrigation loans;
(ii)  15 years on loans for all other minor irrigation invest-
ments;
For Lending to other Farmers:
(iii) Nine years on loans for pumpsets and minor irrigation
investments; and
For Lending to other Borrowers:
(iv) 15 years maximum on loans for minor irrigation investments.
jj 7% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
J/ 10 for two or more farmers in a group loan.



-55-                       Schedule A
Page 3
(e) Grace periods may be granted at the discretion of NABARD,
provided that the repayment period of such loans is not
exceeded; and
(f) Technical and other standards and conditions, as laid down by
NABARD, taking into consideration any applicable guidelines
which the Bank Group shall have reasonably instituted will be
observed.
B. Diversified Lending:
(a) Annual interest rate to be not less than 10.O per annum for
diversified lending under IRDP and to small farmers and 12.5% for all
other diversified lending;
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost of investment
may be charged; this fee may be waived with the concurrence of NABARD;
(c) Borrowers' contribution (including obligatory purchase of LDB shares,
own labor, and other contributions in cash or kind).
(i) for lending to small farmers, a minimum of 5% of the investment
cost;
(ii) for farmers cultivating land providing a pre-development net
return of Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,500 (1972 prices), to family
resources a minimum of lOZ jj of the investment costs. For the
purpose of determining said net returns, the criteria set forth
in Annexure I of this Schedule shall apply;
(iii) for other farmers a minimum of 15% 2/ of the investment cost; and
(iv) for other borrowers a minimum of 15% 2/ of the investment costs.
Provided, however that in cases where the total loan amount is
Rs 5,000 or 'ess, the borrower's contribution in the investment shall
not be required.
(d) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's repayment
capacity, but not to exceed 15 years (including applicable grace
periods).
11 7% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
/  10% for two or more borrowers in a group loan.



-56-                      Schedule A
Page 4
C. General:
(a) NABARD and participating banks to maintain separate accounts for
lending to small farmers;
(b) Security to be in accordance with arrangements between participating
banks and NABARD;
(c) NABARD shall refinance only sound investments which are considered to
be financially viable, and are backed with satisfactory technical and
administrative management to be identified at the time of approval of
refinancing;
(d) Where necessary, NABARD may approve rescheduling of loans,
particularly when requests for rescheduling are from districts
suffering from crop failures due to adverse climatic conditions, in
accordance with NABARD's existing guidelines; and
(e) NABARD shall obtain undertakings from the Participating Banks that
the terms and conditions applicable to the Participating Banks'
loans to ultimate borrowers as set forth in this schedule, shall be
made applicable to all loans extended by the Participating Banks for
similar purposes irrespective of the source of funds.
These lending terms and conditions listed under 1, 2 and 3 above may be
amended from time to time as agreed between the Bank, GOI, and NABARD.



-57-
Schedule A
Page 5
Small Farmer Definition
1.        "Small farmer" shall mean any farmer cultivating land providing a
pre-development net return to family resources to such farmers and his family
not exceeding Rs 2,000 based on 1972 prices. 1/
2.        For the purpose of determining said net return, the following
criteria shall apply:
(a) "land" shall include all land actually cultivated by the farmer
notwithstanding the fact that ownership of such land may be vested in
one or more persons;
(b)  "net return to family resources" shall mean gross family income from
the land, less costs actually incurred (including cash value of the
farmer's own input, including seed, fertilizer, hired human and
bullock labor, feed consumed by family bullocks, irrigation charges,
land revenue, interest on crop loan, and rent on leased land); and
(c) the amounts for the current year shall be arrived at by applying the
current Agricultural Laborer's Consumer Price Index for the State in
which the land is located to the 1972 base, set forth in paragraph 1
hereto.
1/ NABARD calculates for each region what land area would on average yield
a net return of Rs 2,000 in 1972 prices. Farmers with less land are
classified as "small".



-58-                              Schedule B
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement Tranches
Date            Amount                  Disbursement Conditions
Tranche I    Loan effectiveness   US$100 N    Introduction by NABARD of eligibility criteria am
specified in Schedule D.
Contracts signed by four of the seven Senior Expert
Group Members of Agricultural Credit Review.
Receipt of statement from NABARD certifying that
the US$100 M tranche has been utilized to finance
loans under its refinancing program.
Tranche 2    12 months after       US$80 M      Recruitment of the remaining 3 of the Senior Expert
disbursement of                   Group Members of Agriculture Credit Review.
Tranche 1
Receipt of draft reports of two of the five studies
of Agricultural Credit Review.
Receipt of statement from NABARD certifying that the
US$80 M tranche has been utilized to finance loans
under its refinancing program.
Tranche 3    24 months after       US$80 M      Receipt of remaining three draft reports of Studies
disbursement of                   I to IV of Agricultural Credit Review.
Tranche 1
Receipt of statement from NABARD certifying that
the US$80 M tranche has been utilized to finance
loans under its refinancing program.
Tranche 4    36 months after       US$80 M      Presentation to Bank Group of completed studies of
disbursement of                   Agricultural Credit Review and recommendations of
Tranche 1                         Senior Expert Group.
Receipt of statement from NABARD certifying that the
US$80 M of this tranche has been utilized to
finance loans under its refinancing program.



OA
Schedule C
Page 1
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Criteria for Eligibility of Financial Institutions to Receive
Refinancing from NABARD
A. Criteria Applicable to PLDBs. LDB Branches. RRBs and CB Branches
1.      With effect from July 1, 1986, all PLDBs, LDB branches, RRBs and CB
branches requesting NABARD refinancing shall be classified in the four
categories, according to the recovery percentage achieved during the previous
year. NABARD refinancing for branches of CBs and LDBs, PLDBs and RRBs in
each category (except for those in Special Assistance state) 1/ shall be as
stated in the table below. The recovery percentages for categories II, III
and IV shall be revised upwards as shown:
(Annual Recovery Rate Z)
Category        Up to 12131/87         Effective 1/1/88
75 or more             75 or more
-I                 60-74                    65-74
III                36-59                    41-64
IV                  0-35                     0-40
Refinance Facility for Branches in Catezory
I    :   Unlimited Access
II   :   The highest amount lent in any of the last 5 years or
average recovered in previous 3 years, whichever is
greater.
III  :   The amount recovered in the previous fiscal year or the
average amount recovered in past 3 years, whichever is
greater;
IV   :   During the first year in which a branch falls in this
category, refinancing would be limited to 75Z of the
amount calculated for Category III above. If the
branch remains in this category and fails to demonstrate
an improvement in its recovery of at least 7 percentage
points, refinancing would be further reduced to 50%
in the second and 25% in in the third year.
jj Existing (ARDC IV) eligibility criteria will continue to apply to
branches in States/Union territories of Arunchal Pradesh, Assam,
Maniiupur Meghalaya, Muzoran Nagaland, Sikkim and Nipura. Refinance to
these orates is expected to be less than 2% of NABARD's refinancing
program.



-60-
Schedule C
Page 2
points, refinancing would be further reduced to 50Z
in the second and 25Z in in the third year.
2.      A State Government contributions would not, in any way, be applied or
counted as cash recoveries from ultimate borrowers for the purposes of
eligibility for NABARD refinancing. Any State Government contribution to
recovery of "blocked" I/ accounts, interest remission, or subsidy provided
to any LDB branch, CB branch, PLDB and RRB would aLso not, in any way, be
counted as recovery for purposes of eligibility for NABARD refinancing.
3.      Any LDB branch, CB branch, PLDB or RRB with restricted eligibility,
pursuant to subparagraph (1) above, must utilize any refinancing received
from NABARD towards its ongoing investments, for which it already has made
disbursements and until such investments are carried out.
4.      For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings:
Ci) "demand" means the aggregate of principal and interest on medium-term
and long-term loans due during the fiscal year under consideration,
plus overdues from previous fiscal years. LDB loans which have been
"blocked" according to NABARD and Bank Group criteria will be
excluded from calculations of demand; and
(ii) "recovery rate" means that part of demand which has been collected in
cash; recoveries paid by State Governments concerning "blocked"
accounts agreed to by NABARD and the Bank Group would be excluded
from recovery calculations.
B. Criteria Applicable to State Cooperative Bank and District Central
Cooperative Banks
NABARD shall refinance in any fiscal year medium- and long-term loans
made by an SCB only where such SCB or one of its branches shall have achieved
a recovery rate of not Less than 60X in the preceding fiscal year.
1/ Between FY81/82 and FY83/84 chronic overdues of selected LDBs were trans-
ferred in "blocked" accounts, and the State Government pays the LDB con-
cerned any shortfall in collecting dues, generaLly over a five-year
period.



-61-                               ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Pilot Scheme for Streunthening Credit Delivery System
A. Summary of Indicated Costs for Pilot Project jJ
(Rs '000)
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3          Total
Total Cost for NABARD            2.611          2.132         2.279          7.022
Head Office (Table B)
Total Costs for One Regional
Office (Table C)                 688            414           432          1,534
x No. of Regional Offices         x 20           x 20          x 20           x 20
Subtotal                      13.760         8.280          8.640        30.680
Total Cost for One District
Office (Table D)               5,911         4,709          3,426         14,046
x No. of District Offices         x 20           x 20          x 20           x 20
Subtotal                     118.220        94.180         68.520        280.920
Total Pilot Scheme             134,591        104,592        79,439        318,622
Equivalent to:
Amount Provided for Pilot
in the Project
1/ NABARD Head Office; 20 Regional offices; 20 District Offices. Costs include
physical contingencies of 5% and price contingencies at 7% for the first and
7.5% for second and third Project Year. In calculating price contingencies
it is assumed that expenditure in a year (including physical contingencies)
will be incurred evenly throughout the year. Thus net rates applied on base
cost plus physical contingencies are as follows:
Year 1 : 3.5 (50%)
Year 2 : 10.75 (7% + 3.75%)
Year 3  :  18.25 (7Z + 7.5% + 3.75%)



-62-
ANNE 1
Table 2
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Pilot Scheme for Strenztheninz Credit Delivery System
B. NAMARD Head Office Costs for Pilot Project
(Rs 000)
Cost     Year 1        YeaLr 2       Year 3     Total
No.   p.a.   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   Cost
Incremental Staff
General Manager                 1    72.0    1       72    1       72    1       72     216
Deputy General Manager          2    65.0    2      130    2      130    2      130     390
Manager                         4    58.0    4      232    4      232    4      232     696
Deputy Manager                  4    48.0    4      192    4      192    4      192     576
DO                              8    40.0    8      320    8      320    8     320      960
ADO                             8    28.0    8      224    8      224    8      224     672
Steno                          6    30.0    6       180    6      180    6     180      540
Typist                          6    15.0    6       90    6       90    6       90     270
Clerk                          6    12.0    6        72    6       72    6       72     216
Peons                           6    10.0    6       60    6       60    6      60      180
Consultant                      1    30.0    1       30    1       30    1      30       90
Driver                          2    20.0    2       40    2       40    2       40     120
Subtotal                                        1,642        1,642         1,642   4,926
Incremental Operating Costs
Incremental Staff TA/DA        -      -      -      150    -      150    -     150      450
Vehicle Operation (Cars)        2    15.0    2       30    2       30    2      30       90
Supplies                       -      -      -        3    -        3    -       4       10
Telephone                      -      -      -        8    -        8    -        9      25
Subtotal                                          191          191           193      575
Vehicles and Equipment
Cars                           2   125.0    2       250    -       -     -      -       250
Office Cabins                  -      -      -       50    -       -     -      -        50
Furniture                      -      -      -       80    -       -     -      -        80
Office Equipment               -      -      -      190    -       -     -      -       190
Subtotal                                          570           -             -       570
Base Cost Total (1984 prices)                     2,403         1,833        1,835   6,071
Physical Contingency (5%)                           120            92           92      304
Price Contingency                                    88           207          352      647
Total for NABARD Head office                      2,611         2,132        2,279   7,022



-63-
ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDIA
NABARD %XEDIT PROJECT
Pilot Scheme for Strengtheninz Credit Delivery System
C. Model Cost Table for One ReRional Office (NABARD)
(Rs '000)
Cost     Year 1        Year 2        Year 3     Total
No.   p.a.   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   Cost
Incremental Staff
Manager                         1    58.0    1       58    1       58    1      58      174
Deputy Manager                  1    48.0    1       48    1       48    1      48      144
Additional ADO                  2    28.0    2       56    2       56    2      56      168
Steno                          1    30.0    1        30    1      30    1       30       90
Typist                         2    15.0    2        30    2       30    2      30       90
Clerk                          2    12.0    2        24    2      24    2       24       72
Peon                           2    10.0    2        20    2       20    2      20       60
Driver                          1    20.0    1       20    1       20    1      20       60
Subtotal                                         286           286           286     858
Incremental Operating Costs
Incremental Staff TA/DA        -      -      -       50    -      50    -       50      150
Vehicle Operation (Car)        1    12.0    1        12    1      12    1       12       36
Supplies                       -      -      -        3    -       2    -        -        5
Telephone Charges              -      -      -       12    -        6    -       -       18
Subtotal                                          77            70            62     209
Vehicles and Equipment
Cars                           1   125.0    1       125    -      -      -      -       125
Office Cabins                  -      -      -       15    -      -      -      -        15
Furniture                      -      -      -       50    -      -      -      -        50
Office Equipment                      -      -       80    -      -      -      -        80
Subtotal                                         270            -             -      270
Base Cost Total                                    633           356           348   1,337
Physical Contingency (5%)                            32           18            17       67
Price Contingency                                    23           40            67      130
Total for One Regional Office                       688          414           432   1,534
_ __==    ===



-64-                                         ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDIA
RABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Pilot Scheme for Strenathening Credit Delivery System
D. Model Cost Table for One District 1/
(Rs '000)
Cost     Year 1       Year 2        Year 3     Total
No.   D.a.   No.  Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   Cost
Incremental Staff
Field Officer                  50     20.0   50   1,000   50   1,000   50   1,000   3,000
Development officer             5     25.0    5      125    5     125    5      125     375
Senior Development Officer      1     30.0    1       30    1      30    1       30      90
Project Coordination Officer   1      35.0    1       35    1      35    1       35     105
Support Staff  /               15     18.0   15      270   15     270   15      270     810
Subtotal                                         1.460        1.40          1.460   4.380
Training
Monthly Training (Sessions)   60 2.J  1.0   60        60   60      60   60       60     180
Orientation Training           75 4/   1.0   75       75   75      75   75       75     225
(Individual)
Special Programs for SDOs/DOs  I    100.0    1       100    1     100    1      100     300
Subtotal                                           235          235           235     705
Incremental Operatinx Costs
Incremental Staff TU/DA        57      6.0   57      342   57     342   57      342   1,026
Incremental Costs of           94      3.0   94      282   94     282   94      282     846
Existing Staff
Vehicle Operation (4-WD)        9     36.0    9      324    9     324    9      324     972
Office Operation                1     42.0    1       42    1      42    1       42     126
Training Materials              1     50.0    1       50    1      50    1       50     150
Training Ball Rent              1     24.0    1       24    1      24    1       24      72
1,064       1.04           .064   3.192
Vehicles and Equipment
4 UD 5j                          9   130.0    6      780   -3     390    -       -    1,170
Hotorcycles i                 150    18.0  100   1,800   50      900    -       -    2,700
Training and Office              1   100.0    1      100    -      -     -       -      100
Equipment
Subtotal                                        2.680         1290    -       -    3.970
Base Cost Total                                    5,439        4,049         2,759  12,247
Physical Contingency (5Z)                            272          203           138    613
Price Contingency                                    200          457           529   1.186
Total for One District                             5,911        4,709       .3,426  14,046
an_s         .__            a____n
jj  On assumption that 130 FOs (of whom 50 incremental), 16 DOs (5 incremental), 4 DSOs
(1 incremental), and 1 PCO (incremental).
2/ Clerks, typists, drivers.
2f Five sessions monthly, costs to cover training materials, etc.
A/  Once every two years per staff member, 10 day sessions, costs to cover training
personnel and training material costs.
For SDO and PCO.
6/ Motorcycle or moped (for PACs secretaries).
2/ Typewriters, duplicators, slide projectors, basic furniture, calculators, etc.



-65-                           ANNEX 1
Table 5
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
ARriculture Credit Review - Cost Estimates
Unit         Unit Cost Ouantity  Total Cost
US$               (US$'000)
Staff Costs
Studies:  I ....... .............  H/H   (local)     3,000        28         84
(foreign)  10,000        7         70
II .. ..................  M/M   (L)         3,000       45         135
III                 ....  M/M   (L)          3,000         8         24
H/M   (F)        10,000       32        320
IV ....................  H/M   (L)          3,000       30          90
V ....................  M/M   (L)          3,000         9         27
M/F   (F)        10,000       36        360
Senior Expert Group                M/M   (L)          5,000       72        360
H/M   (F)        15,000       27        405
1,875
Iuternational Travel
Studies: 1 trip per 3 M|M
of foreign consultants         1 round trip      3,000        25         75
Senior Expert Group
4 trips/year for each
foreign meimber                1 round trip      3,000        36        108
183
Local Travel
Rs 3,000 per M/M for all
participating staff             M/M                  250      195         49
Per-diem
Studies: 50% of total H/M
of all consultants             Travel               60    2,925         175
Senior Expert Group 75% of
total M/M of all experts       Days                 60    2,230         134
358
Total Base Cost                                                           2,416
Physical Contingency (38Z)                                                  918
Price Contingency j/                                                        163
Total                                                                     3,497
jj Above prices would apply in 1985/86. Price contingency of 7.5Z per year
compounded applied to expenditures to be incurred in 1986/87 and 1987/88.



-66--                                             ANNEX I
--able 6
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
NABARD's Expected Expenditure on TraininR Programs - 1986/87 to 1988/89
Courses at, or
Organized by College        For        No. of         No. of      Costs Per
of Agriculture Bank,       Staff       Courses    Participants  Course or    Total Cost (Rs '000) /2
Poona                       of         Per Year      Per Year       (L) /1   1986187  1986/87  1986/87    Total
('000)
Courses at, or Organized
by College of Agriculture
Bank, Poona:
Rural Development        CDs, RRBs,      22            550           250       5,500    5,913    6,356    17,769
LDB
Rural Development        CBs, RRBs,       6            150           125         750      806       867     2,423
(refresher)               LDB
Rural Development        CBs, RRBs,       7            175            38         266      286       30/        859
(regional based)          LDB
Technical Courses
- Plantation & Horti.  CBs, RRBs.       20            500             8         160      172       185        517
LDB
- Dryland Farming       CBs, RRBs,      32            B00            12         384      413       444     1,241
LDB
- Minor Irrigation      CBs, RRBs,      16            400             5          80       86        92       258
LDB
- Animal Husbandry      CBs, RRBs,       4            100             8          32       34        37        103
LDB
- Inland Fisheries      CBs, RRBs,      25            625            10         250      269       289       808
LDB
- Forestry              CBs, RRBs,       4            100            20          80       86        92       258
LDB
- Non-farm Sector       CBs, RRBs,       5            125            50         250      269       289       808
LDB
Trainingt on IRDP
(To be undertaken at         /3          /3             /3            (L)        375      403       433     1,211
various centres)
Courses at Bankers Insitute
of Rural Development (BIRD)
and Rural Training Centres
(RTC) (run by NABARD)
BIRD                         13          /3             /3            (L)     6,256    6,725    7,230    20,211
RTC - Bolpur                 /3          /3             /3            (L)      1,805    1,940    2,086      5,831
RTC - Mangalore              /3          /3             /3            (L)      2,432    2,614    2,810      7,85b
Proposed 3 nev RTCs          /3          /3             /3            (L)        -      2,200    2,365      4,565
Proposed Staff Training      13          /3             /3            (L)      1,250    1,344    1,445      4,039
Centres
Courses at Junior Level
Centres (by LDBs)           LD5s         /3             /3            (L)    10,025   10,777   11.585    32,387
Other Courses and Costs
of NABMAD
Program for SCBa/CCBs    SCBs, CCBs    15              375            40         600      645       693     1.938
Seminars/Workshops                        3             75                        50       54        58        162
Courses New NABARD Staff   NABARD        /3             /3            (L)        880      946    1,017      2,843
Overseas Training Costs    NABARD        /3             /3            (L)        250      269       289        808
Expenses of NA&ARD's                                                  (L)      2,000    2.150    2,311      6,461
Training Division                                                           ___       ___ ___
33,675   38,401   41.280   113,356
/1 CL) - Lump sum estimate.
/2 1986/87 estimated costs have been increased by 7.51 per year to allow for inflation in 1987/88 and
1988/89.
/3 To be determined by NABARD in consultation with participating banks.



-67-
ANNEX 1
Table 7
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Estmated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter
During Quarter               Cumulative
------------  US$ M-           -    
1986-87
July - September                              101.5                      101.5
October - December                              2.0                      103.5
January - March                                 2.5                      106.0
April - June                                    3.0                      109.0
1987-88
July - September                               83.0                      192.0
October - December                             4.0                       196.0
January - March                                 4.0                      200.0
April - June                                    4.0                      204.0
1988-89
July - September                              83.5                       287.5
October - December                              2.5                      290.0
January - March                                 2.0                      292.0
April - June                                    1.5                      293.5
1989-90
July - September                              81.5                       375.0



INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Models - Financial and Economic Rates of Return /I
Annual Incr.
Income      Financial Rate of Return(%)    Economic Rate of Return(Z) /1
District/State - -________________Investment   Power __ (Rs '000) /2   vith Subidvy   vio Subsidy                       A  _  _ B. _          C
Bhojpur/Bihar                                    STW       Electric       5.5            34.3              26.9         35.1       24.7       17.6
Purnes/Bihar                                     STW       Electric       8.0             38.2             31.1         38.9       28.9       21.7
Allahabad/Uttar Pradesh (small farmer)           STW       Electric       2.1             15.6             10.3           9.5       4.3        0.7
Huraffarnagar/Uttar Pradesh (small farmer)    STW          Electric       3.2             20.7             14.8           2.2     C 0.1)       1.1
Kota/Rajasthan                                   Dugvell  Electric       4.9              18.1             14.2         20.5       15.8       11.7
Sholapur-Ahmednagar/Haharashtra                  Dugwell  Electric       6.3              24.8             19.8          14.7      11.2        8.1
Hadurai/Tamil Nadu                               Coffee Plantation       30.0               -              22.5            -         -        41.1
Anantpur/Andhra Pradesh                          Grapevine Plantation  56.4                 -              24.4            -         -        15.0
Nalgonda/Andhra Pradesh                          Sheep Farming            3.5             55.0             39.6            -         -        39.6
-    /Uttar Pradesh                           Dairy Development       6.1             42.0             31.2            -          -       16.9
Hooghly/West Bengal                              Pover Tiller           21.6                -              47.0           -          -        54.3
Thanjavur/Tamil Nadu                             Tractor                38.3                -              35.0           -          -        33,3
/1  Hodels are detailed in project file, which also contains analysis of the use diesel powered
pumps for the six minor-irrigation models.
/2  At full development.
/3  For models vith electric pumps:
A:  Connection charge of Rs 3,000 and annual charge of Rs 1,500 for STW, Rs 750 for Dugvell                                                   Xx
B:  Connection charge of Rs 10,000 and annual charge of Rs 1,500 for STW, Rs 750 for Dugvell                                                  , N
C:  Connection charge of Rs 19,000 and varying annual charge CRs 1,270 to Rs 3,075 depending on district).



-69-
ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Models - Sensitivity Analysis
Point
Estimate        Costs + 10%
District/State                Investment          ERR (Z)       Benefits - 10%
Bhojpur/Bihar               STW/electric             17.6 /1         11.6
Purnea/Bihar                STW/electric             21.7 l1         13.9
Allahabad/UP                STW/electric              0.7 /1         (4.3)
Muzaffarnagar/UP            STW/electric              1.1 /1         (5.4)
Kota/Rajasthan              Dugwell/electric         11.7 /1          7.9
Sholapur/Maharashtra        Dugwell/electric          8.1 /1          1.5
Madurai/Tamil Nadu          Coffee Plantation        41.1            29.5
Anantpur/AP                 Grapevine Plantation   15.0               2.1
Nalgonda/AP                 Sheep Farming            39.6            29.4
-    /UP                Dairy Development         16.9           (12.4)
Hooghly/West Bengal         Power Tiller             54.3            35.2
Thanjavur/Tamil Nadu        Tractor                  33.3            22.9
11 Assuming connection charge of Rs 19,000 and varying annual charge
(Rs 1,270 to Rs 3,075 depending on district).



-70-                                              ANNEX 3
Table I
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Summarv Balance Shes - ARDC/NABARD (1977-1985)
(as of June 30. in Rs M)
___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ __ __   __ ___ __   __ __ ___ ___C  ____________ _ __ __ _ _ -
ARDC              _              _ NABARD
_                       ___ - J197         1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and at Banks and Investments         2      1    319    263    701  1,326  2,775  5,953  7,356
Interest-free Deposits with RBI                   -      -       -      -       -      -  6,309  5,309  3,989
Loans and Debentures                          7,222  8,736 10,466 13,036 15,927 19,259 34,645 40,001 44,802
Accrued Interest                                276    342    389    491    595    691  1,184  1,268  1,676
Other Assets                                     54    260    232    156      60    110    276    401    515
Total Assets                                  7,554  9,339 11,406 13,946 17,283 21,386 45,189 52,932 58,338
LIABILITIES
Bonds and Debentures                          1,817  2,023  2,464  2,860  3,211  3,761  4,061  4,364  4,529
Interest-free Deposits                           45     85      66     67     71      96    110    141    243
Loans from GOI                                3,400  4,276  5,024  6,446  8,785 10,601 12,159 13,827 16,163
Loans from RBI                                1,726  2,168  2,635  3,147  3,664  5,139  9,041 10,390  7,618
Other Liabilities                               145    198    369    396    374    445    585    544    721
Total Liabilities                            71133  8.750 10.558 12,916 16.105 20        25.956 29,266 29 274
RURAL CREDIT FUNDS /1
Long-term Operstions                              -      -       -      -       -      - 12,520 15,770 19,920
Stabilization                                            _                             -  4,480 _330  6.280
Total Rural Credit Funds                          -      -       -      -       -      - 17.000 21,100 26,200
EQUITY
Paid-up Shares                                  350    475    575    575    575    575  1,000  1,000  1,000
Reserves and Undistributed Income                71    114    273    455    603    769  1.233  1.566  1.864
Total Equity                                    421    589    848  1.030  1.178  1.344  2.233  Z,566  2.864
Total Liabilities and Equity                  7,554  9,339 11,406 13,946 17,283 21,386 45,189 52,932 58,338
/I These funds were obtained through transfers from RBI on July 1, 1982 when NABARD was
established and assumed the ownership and responsibilities for loans previously financed by RBI.
Annual additions to the funds are made by RBI and from NABARD's profits.



-71-
ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Summary Statement of Income and Expenditure - ARDCINABD_(1977-1985)
(for the Years Ended June 30, in Rs M)
_ARDC                                         NARARD
_..2Z.L.                                   . 1977    1978_  1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
INCOME
Interest Earned on Loans        400      523     642      786      955   1,142   2,076   2.548   2,938
Other Tncome                     10       24      46       64       95     165    241        703     912
Total Income                    410      547     688      850   1,050   1,307   2,495   3,251   3,850
__....    _...    .n....        --- __           .....
EXPENSES
Interest Paid on Borrowings   306        402     509      630      801   1,029   1,403   1.637   1,791
Salaries and Staff Benefits    15         17       26      41       54      62      113      116     132
General Expenses                 10        9       13      15       18      22       40       65      79
Total Expenses                  331      428     548      686      873   1,113   1,556   1.818   2,002
Profit Before Tax                79      119     140      164      177     194      939   1,433   1,848
-.      -       --n      --      ..                 ..   .       .....
Transfer to Special Reserve    20         30
Tax                              34       52            -       -        -            -        -       -
Profit After Tax                 45       67     140      164      177     194      939   1,4.33   1,848
Dividend                         17       25      31       33       33      33        -        -       -
Surplus Retained                  7       13     109      131      144     161      939   1,433   1,848
of whicb to
-  LTO Fund /1                      -        -        -       -            -    (470) (1,000) (1,400)
-  Stabilization Fund 11        -        -       -        -        -       -    C 80) (  100) (  150)
INDICATIVE RATIOS:
Interest Paid on
Average Borrowings            5.0Z    5.22    5.5%    5.61    5.7%    5.8%    6.2%    6.1Z    6.3%
Interest Earned on
Average Loans                 6.32    6.5%    6.7%    6.7%    6.6%    6.5%    7.7%    6.8%    6.9%
Average Spread on Borrowings  1.3%    1.3%    1.2%    1.1    0.9          0.71    1.5%    0.72    0.6%
Interest Cost as Z of
Average Total Resources       4.9Z    4.8%    4.9Z    5.0%    5.1Z    5.3%    4.2%    3.3%    3.2%
Total Income as ; of Total
Assets                        6.6%    6.5%    6.6Z    6.7Z    6.7%    6.82    7.5%    6.6%    6.92
Average Spread on
Total Resources               1.72    1.7%    1.7%    1.7%    1.6%    1.5%    3.3%    3.31    3.72
Profit (Before Tax) as I of:
-  Average Equity              22%      24%     19%      17%      16%     152      532     60%      68%
-  Average Total Assets       1.2%    1.4%    1.32    1.32    1.12    1.0%    2.8%    2.92    3.32
Staff and General Expenses as
% of Average Total Assets   0.4%    0.3%    0.4%    0.4%    0.5%    0.42    0.5%    0.4            0.4%
Debt/Equity /2                 16.9:1  14.5:1  12.5:1  12.5:1  13.4:1  14.9:1  11.6:1  11.4:1  10.2:1
/I See note on Summary Balance Sheets.
(2 Excluding Rural Credit Funds from botb debt and equity.



INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
ARDC/NABARD Disbursements by Subsector (FY1980/81 - FY1984185)
(Rs H)
ARDC                                               NABARD
Cumulative
Purpose                            To 6/30/80    z    1980-81    1981-82         1982-83    1983-84    1984-85    to 6/30/85    x
Minor Irrigation                     11,296    (65)    2,650         2,523         2,445       3,120       3,350        25,384      (46)
Land Development Reclamation/
Soil Conservation/Command Area
Development                              660      (4)      129          107          208         290         430         1,824       (3)
Farm Mechanization                    2,786    (16)    1,099         1,282         1,468       2,040       1,700        10,375      (20)
IRDP                                      39      -        132         979        1,854       2,330        3,540         8,874      (16)
Plantation/Horticulture                  626      (3)      238         327           266         380         470         2,307       (4)
Poultry/Sheep Breeding                   187      (1)       144         141           99         125          /1           696       (1)
Fisheries                                326      (2)       97           75           55          66          /1           619       (1)
Dairy Development                        300      (2)      114          196          139         130          /1           879       (2)
Storage & Market Yards                1,067       (6)      156           92          126          90         120         1,651       (3)
Forestry                                  27      -          12          18           36          50          20           163        -
Integrated Cotton Dev.                    97     (1)        64          67           124           -           -           352       (1)
Others                                    54      -         153         195           16         299         980         1.697       (3)
Total                       17,465   (100)    4,988         6,002         6,836       8,920      10,610        54,821    (100)  
/1 Included with "Others."



-73-                               ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
NABARD's Estimated Resource Position for Term Lending FY86/87 - 88/89
(Rs M)
Resource Requirements /1
Schematic Lending:                     1986/87       12,800
1987/88      14,100
1988/89      15.500       42,400
Non-Schematic Loans:                   1986/87        1,180
1987/88       1,190
1088/89       1.200        3,570
Repayment & Other Obligations:         1986/87        1,210
1987/88       1,060
1988/89       1.530        3.800
Total Resource Requirements:                                      49.770   (100%)
Likely Resources
Repayments                                           20,250
NABARD Profits                                        6,850
Bonds                                                 4,960
Liquidation of Securities and Deposits                  410       32,470  (65.3%)
IDA - Ongoing Projects                                  250
NABARD I ($340 M)                                     4,080
West Germany (DM 55 H)                                  254
Netherlands (Fl 17 M = $5.5 H)                           66       4,650   (9.3Z)
RBI - Long Term Operations Fund                                  11.750  (23.6%)
48,870  (98.22)
Balance from additional bilateral funds                              900   (1.8%)
and/or RBI/GOI                                                 49,770   (100%)
_==_ -==_
11 Includes all needs, i.e. schematic lending, other loans, repayment and
other obligations, but excluding short-term operations and STO fund
operations for which there are separate "tied" resources available.



-74-                               ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
NABARD's Expected Refinancing Program FY86/87 - FY88/89
(Rs M)
1986/86    1987/88    1988/89    Total      Z
Schematic Lending
1.  Minor Irrigatiun                3,700       4,070      4,480    12,250   26.6
2.  Land Development                  360         400        440      1,200    2.6
3.  Farm Mechanization              2,050       2,250      2,480      6,780   14.7
4.  IRDP                            4,380       4,820      5,300    14,500   31.5
5.  Plantation/Horticulture           570         630        690      1,890    4.1
6.  Dairy Development                 290         320        350        960    2.1
7.  PoultrylSheep/Goat/Piggery        270         300        330        900    2.0
8.  Fisheries                         120         130        140        390    0.9
9.  Storage and Market Yards          130         140        150       420    0.9
10. Forestry                           40          40         50        130    0.3
11. Biogas                            110         120        130       360    0.8
12. Others                            780         880        960     2.620    5.7
Total Schematic Loans    12,800      14,100      15,500    42,400   92.2
Non-schematic Lending               1,180       1,190      1,200     3,570    7.8
13,980     15,290     16,700    45,970    100



-75-                         ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Review
Draft Terms of Reference
I. OBJECTIVES OF THE REVIEW
1.      The main objective of the Review will be to recommend a program to
strengthen the entire agricultural credit system. The Review would make
recommendations for: (i) remedies which can be implemented in the short-term
to enhance the quality of lending; (ii) those remedial actions (particularly
of a broader, organizational nature) which will take longer to implement; and
(iii) solving problems affecting the long-term development of the credit
system in the context of the changing pattern of credit requirements in
agricultural and rural development.
2.      In view of the complexity and size of the agricultural credit system
in India and taxing into account the intricate nature and sensitivity of the
issues currently affecting the system, it has been decided to split the
Review into five studies.
3.      The five studies of the Review would focus on:
(i) broad questions pertaining to the role and operations of the agricul-
tural credit system;
(ii) the role and effectiveness of individual lending institutions;
(iii) the scope of supervisory and regulatory functions of the apex-level
in agricultural credit;
(iv) the costs of lending and margins; and
4.      Prior to executing these studies, the consultants and senior experts
should thoroughly familiarize themselves with the Indian agricultural credit
system, specifically those reports listed in the Bibliography to these Terms
of Reference.
5.      Timetable.  A tentative timetable for the activities to be undertaken
as part of the Review and suggested key data concerning selection and
appointment of senior experts and consultants, commencement of activities
and completion of reports are indicated below.



-76-                            ANNEX 4
Page 2
Senior Expert Group (SEG)
Shortlist completed                           June 1986
Selection of members                          August 1986
Appointment of members                        September 1986
First meeting SEG                             November 1986
Completion of draft report                    August 1988
Receipt of couments by GOI and the
Bank Group                                 October 1988
Completion final report                       December 1988
Review Studies I to IV
Advertisement in Development Forum            May 1986
Shortlist and invitation for proposals        July 1986
Selection of consultants                      September 1986
Completion of contract negotiations           November 1986
Start of activities in India                  January 1987
Interim report                                May 1987
Completion of draft report                    August 1987
Completion of final report                    November 1987
Review Study V
Shortlist and invitation for proposals        September 1986
Selection of consultants                      November 1986
Completion of contract negotiations           April 1987
Start of activities in India                  June 1987
Interim report                                October 1987
Completion of draft report                    March 1988
Completion of final report                    July 1988
II. SENIOR EXPERT GROUP (SEG)
5.      Obiectives.  The objective of the SEG is to evaluate the major
problems and issues currently affecting the agricultural credit system, as
outlined in the five Review studies, and to make recommendations for a
program to strengthen the sector.
6.      Detailed Terms of Reference.  The main task of the SEG will be to
prepare an integrated report for the strengthening of the Indian agricultural
credit system, which will contain recommendations and an implementation
timetable for the carrying out of the proposals. The SEG-s other duties will
i-elude, but not be restricted to:



-77-                           ANNEX 4
Page 3
Ci)  Guiding and monitoring the implementation of the Review studies
including the general format of the consulting groups' working plans
and agreed timetables; assist them whenever possible in obtaining the
requisite information and the cooperation of all those concerned with
the Review.
Cii)  Reviewing and commenting upon consultants  interim and draft reports
and ensuring that prior to finalization, such reports are made avail-
able to GOI, RBI and the Bank for their comments. Following review of
interim reports, SEG should recommend appropriate changes in work
programs, where necessary, to RBI and discuss these changes in review
meetings.
(iii) Organizing review meetings with consulting groups.
(iv) Familiarizing itself with the issues that have dominated agricultural
credit over the past 20 years.
(v) Addressing the broad questions affecting the agricultural credit
system, including but not limited to those concerning:
(a) the future role of the credit system in view of Government
plans for development of the agriculture sector;
(b) future resource requirements of agricultural credit; and
how they can be satisfied;
(c) the structure of the agricultural credit system, and the
roles of its major components;
(d) control and supervision of the agricultural credit system;
(e) the role of lending margins and their impact on agricultural
credit;
(f) improved recovery of agricultural loans;
(g) the financial position of financial institutions, including
desirable levels of reserves; and
(h) recruitment and training of staff of financial
institutions.
(vi) Undertaking such activities as it deems necessary to reach a
thorough understanding of the agricultural credit system.



-78-                           ANNEX 4
Page 4
Study I: AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN GENERAL
7.      Objective.  The objective of this study is to examine the role and
operations of the entire agricultural credit system within the broader con-
text of India's development and to make recommendations to enable the system
to enhance credit quality, strengthen efficiency and effectiveness, and
improve loan recovery.
8.      Detailed Terms of Reference.  The study should assess how, within
the framework of India's current poverty alleviation and development
policies, the role of the agricultural credit system should evolve; and which
factors will have impact on its efficiency, effectiveness, and institutional
integrity. Specifically, the study will assess the volume of future flows of
funds into and out of agriculture sector, the effectiveness of schematic and
special program lending within agriculture, the effect of lending targets,
the role of subsidies, and the impact of loan recovery on the financial
position of credit institutions. The consultants will examine the following
issues pertaining to the role and operations of the entire agricultural
credit system:
(i) assess the effect of agricultural interest rates on demand,
recoveries, and mobilization of deposits.
(ii) review the present and future likely requirements for resources for
investment in different subsectors and the agricultural credit sys-
terns overall role in mobilizing and allocating resources among
subsectors.
(iii) requirements for short- and long-term agricultural credit. The
impact of financial variables and the changing pattern of agricul-
tural investments would be included.
(iv) the role of agricultural credit in India; the linkages and
inter-relationships between credit and subsidies; and how the special
needs of certain subsectors of the community or certain regions can
be met by subsidies or grants without detriment to the credit system;
and what safeguards are needed when the credit system must be used as
the conduit or agent of such special schemes.
Within the context of these general issues, the following should be inves-
tigated:
(a) What is the role of direct subsidies in agriculture, and what is
their effect on agricultural production and credit? How do
subsidies affect credit operations, repayment discipline, and
the selection of investments to be financed?
(b) What is the magnitude and impact of special poverty alleviation
programs and disaster relief programs on agricultural credit



-79-
ANNEX 4
Page 5
operations? How can the effectiveness, efficiency and control
of these programs be improved, and what role should the banking
system play in these programs?
(v) Assess the effect of the imposition of lending targets and/or quotas
on credit operations. Review the reasons for targetting by various
agencies and investigate whether alternative arrangements would be
feasible and desirable. In this respect, review the role and effec-
tiveness of district credit plans, their formulation and objectives
and recommend how their effectiveness could be enhanced.
(vi) Review how the granting of credit and control over subsequent repay-
ments can be shielded from outside pressures (e.g., non-credit
related interference at various levels). Assess the feasibility and
impact of the proposed measures.
vii) Assess the effect of current levels of overdues of cooperative banks,
regional rural banks and commercial banks on their financial position
and review how these overdue levels affect credit discipline and
institutional and financial integrity. Review policies and other
measures which would enhance recovery.
(viii)  Examine the role of extension services, marketing organizations, and
block development services that support credit operations, and
propose how their roles could be enhanced.
Study II: THE ROLE AND EFFECTIVENESS OF LENDING INSTITUTIONS
9.      Obiecti-,e.  The objective of this study will be to review the role
and effectiveness of lending institutions engaged in the provision of
agricultural credit and to make proposals and recommendations for such chan-
ges as appropriate, to establish a sound and viable credit system and
institutions, which will be able to adequately provide service to the rural
population.
10.     Within the context of the Review, this study will be particularly
complex, because it would deal with a multitude of agricultural credit
institutions. To keep the study within manageable proportions, it will focus
on a sample, including the number of branches of Land Development Banks
(LDBs), Regional Rural Banks (RRBs), Commercial Banks (CBs), State Coopera-
tive Banks (SCBs) and District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCBs). The number
of banks in the sample would be as follows: LDBs - 8, RRBs - 10, CBs - 6 YJ,
SCBs - 6, and DCCBs- 10. In addition, the study would analyze the opera-
tions of a sample of 30 Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACs). The
final selection of the sample will be made prior to the start of the study by
jJ The review would only deal with the agricultural operations of the CBs.



-80-                        ANNEX 4
Page 6
the consultants in consultation with RBI, and take into account that: (i) the
sample represents all major regions and agricultural systems; and (ii) the
sizes of banks selected largely reflect the current size distribution of all
banks.
11.     Detailed Terms of Reference.  The main focus of this study would be
on the operations of agricultural credit institutions, and how the quality of
lending operations and financial services to the farmers could be improved.
Specifically the study would:
(i) Analyze the present role played by the short-term cooperative credit
institutions (PACs, DCCBs, SCBs), other cooperative banks (LDBs), and
departments or divisions in charge of agricultural operations in CBs
and RRBs; examine their inter-relationships and methods of operation,
particularly at the "grass roots" level.
(ii) Examine the effectiveness and efficiency of each group of institu-
tions including: (a) their financial structure and viability;
(b) administration, personnel, training and managerial systems; and
{c) branch expansion policies, taking into account the experience
gained by the pilot scheme. 1/
Ciii) Following such analysis, make recommendations concerning the future
role, structure, and functions of the cooperative credit institu-
tions, RRBs, and agricultural credit operations of CBs.
(iv) Examine the staffing and training requirements of credit institutions
at all levels; assess the training capacity and capabilities
presently available; paying particular attention to the appropriate-
ness of the training being given in relation to the needs, par-
ticularly at the grass roots level, and make proposals on how the
various groups of banks' training activities should be strengthened
to satisfy future requirements over a five-year period, and who
should be responsible for ensuring training quality; examine the
availability of specialist staff for recruitment, and recruitment
procedures; examine the implications of current employment practices
on credit institutions.
(v) Analyze loan recovery profiles for each group of banks, including
overdues by age and bad debts with proposals as to how they should be
dealt with. Review current methods to estimate bad debts and how bad
debt is dealt with, and examine current NABARD guidelines dealing
with bad debts.
1/ The pilot scheme, executed by NABARD attempts to improve credit delivery
at the grass roots level by instituting regular visits by Bank staff to
farmers, training activities, and improved management practices.



-81-                        ANNEX 4
Page 7
(vi) Analyze the root causes of overdues, ascertaining whether they are
attributable to lending policies, staff shortages, faulty technology,
outside interference etc., and make proposals for overcoming the
problems.
(vii) Examine the existing methods for debt rescheduling, including those
under calamity conditions, and make recomnmendations for any changes
required.
(viii)  Investigate the methods and legal aspects of loan recovery, par-
ticularly the effectiveness of present collateral arrangements;
review whether the insistence of some banks upon legal mortgage over
land is necessary or effective; and determine what are the legal
impediments, if any, to using direct methods of loan recovery, such
as stoppages from salaries or wages a.nd compulsory stop orders on
crop proceeds from such sources as ginneries, coffee factories and
other marketing organizations; is the concept of joint liability by
lending through associations and farmers' clubs pursued, are legal
delays through the courts an impediment to loan recoveries and are
they too costly; what is the role and impact of the credit insurance
schem2 of the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation
CDICGC), particularly on CBs and RRBs; what will be the impact of bad
debt claims on the future financial position of DICGC; and, having
considered all aspects of this subject, make proposals for such
changes in the system as are deemed apprcpriate.
(ix) Review the effectiveness of the concept of "lead bank" particularly
with respect to the IRDP program and formulation of district credit
plans.
(x) Review current policies and practices with respect to branch expan-
sion and assess their effect on lending efficiency and the effective-
ness of credit delivery.
Study III: THE ROLi AND FUNCTIONS OF THE APEX LEVEL IN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
12.     Objective.  The objective of this study will be to define and clarify
the roles and functions of the apex-level institutions within the agricul-
tural credit framework, their relationship to each other, and their relation-
ship to their client financial institutions.
13.     Detailed Terms of Reference.  This study aims at assessing the most
desirable role for the apex-level, and what steps are required for the
apex-level to assume and execute such role. Specifically, the study should
focus on the following subjects:
(i) Analyze the role and functions of the apex-level in agricultural
credit, including, but not limited to: (a) financing and refinancing;



-82-                       ANNEX 4
Page 8
(b) the supervision and control of loans made by all lending institu-
tions engaged in agricultural credit; (c) institutional performance;
(d) monitoring and guiding training activities; and (e) the planning
and implementation of national and State policies.
(ii) Assess the current role and influence of the apex-level in the policy
making process at the Central and State Government level, and analyze
what role each should play in the development and implementation of
agricultural credit policies.
(iii) Assess the methods by which the apex-level reviews and controls the
financial integrity of its client banks, particularly cooperative
credit institutions. Review how current eligibility criteria affect
the financial position of banks.
(iv) Review the effectiveness of the present system of schematic and
non-schematic lending and refinancing of term loans and assess
whether and how improvements could be made.
Cv) Propose monitoring and control mechanisms which will ensure that the
credit system is properly managed, lending is effective, and
recoveries maintained at acceptable levels. In this respect, the
question of eligibility criteria for institutions to participate in
agricultural lending must be fully investigated, whether such
criteria are effective and how they can be enforced, and make
proposals for changes in the existing criteria system if deemed
necessary. Recommend methods for maintaining up-to-date data on
overdues, including statistics by lending categories and age of
overdues.
(vi) Examine institutional accounting systems, including those at the
field level, and make recommendations for improvements. Determine
what steps are needed to quicken the introduction of computer tech-
nology. Analyze the need for generating accurate and meaningful data
on lending at the lower institutional level; assess what type of data
are required at higher levels to maintain overall control over
agricultural credit.
(vii) Determine the role of the apex-level in enhancing the quality, effec-
tiveness, and volume of staff training activities of its client
banks.
(viii) Having considered the above questions, formulate broad recommenda-
tions concerning the future role, objectives, and functions of
NABARD, paying particular attention to:
(a) its capital structure and sources of funds;



-83-                        ANNEX 4
Page 9
(b)  the adequacy and effectiveness of its legal mandate and its
effectiveness in enforcing directives and guidelines;
(c)  its role, functions and relationships with other national
and State-level institutions involved in agricultural
credits, including an analysis about the delineation of
responsibilities;
(d)  its relationship with other lending institutions
(particularly CBs) and State Governments including an
analysis of its responsibilities concerning: (i) bank
inspections; and (ii) monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural lending operations, institutional performance
of financial institutions, and their financial position.
(e)  how effectively and efficiently to ensure improvements in
the quality of lending operations of institutions,
including improvements in technical standards, management,
and operational practices; and
(f) how to ensure and enforce appropriate staffing and staff
training in individual credit institutions.
Study IV: LENDING COSTS AND MARGINS
14.     Objective.  The objective of this study is to assess whether cur-
rently available lending margins are sufficient, in comparison to the costs
of lending operations in agricultural credit and, if not, to give recommenda-
tions to improve the situation.
15.     Some of the main points which must be considered are listed below,
but others may well arise during the review and should not be excluded. The
aim of the review is to develop proposals for lending costs, and margins to
ensure the proper functioning of an efficient credit system. The proposals
should allow for adjustments which may be required from time to time in light
of changes in the costs of resources, reserve requirements, etc.
16.     Of relevance are the staffing needs and staff training facilities
required for lending institutions, the critical overdues situation, and an
assessment of bad debts. Allowance must be made for increases in staff and
training facilities and bad debt reserves that may be recommended under
Study II. (The Role and Effectiveness of Lending Institutions).
17.     Another important aspect to be borne in mind is increasing CB par-
ticipation in agricultural credit operations and the rapidly growing percent-
age of small loans provided under poverty alleviation schemes by CBs and
RRBs.



-84-                         ANNEX 4
Page 10
18.     A considerable amount of work has already been done on these subjects
in the past by RBI and NABARD and considerable data are available which will
need to be updated. The consultants would use the same sample of financial
institutions as detailed in para 10 above to provide data for this study.
19.     Detailed Terms of Reference.  The study should:
(i) estimate the costs of lending for the various groups of lending
institutions which will take account of:
(a) the type of lending e.g. short-, medium- and long-term,
whether secured or unsecured, the purposes for which the
funds are lent, whether many small loans are involved, and
what degree of technical and other supervision will be
required;
(b) the risks involved in various types of lending, in
particular, the effectiveness or otherwise of collateral and
the reserve requirements to protect the financial viability
of institutions;
(c) the costs of raising funds internally and from other
sources;
(d) the costs of overdues and bad debts in terms of reduced
liquidity and costs of collection, taking into account the
role of the credit insurance scheme of the Deposit Insurance
and Credit Guarantee Corporation; and
(e) administration costs at all levels, taking into account the
paramount importance of adequate supervision, particularly
technical supervision, at the field level.
(ii) review how institutions are currently meeting those costs; are they
being subsidized directly or indirectly and whether these arrange-
ments are satisfactory or should be modified. In addition, the study
should review the level of DICGC fees and who should pay them;
(iii) examine the present margins being obtained from various institutions;
review whether such margins do provide adequate incentives for banks
to lend effectively;
(iv) review whether current NABARD margins are appropriate in the light of
NABARD's estimates of future lending and operating costs, taking into
account NABARD's likely costs of funds;
(v) in light of conclusions reached from (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above,
make recommendations for appropriate margins.



-85-                       ANNEX 4
Page 11
Study V: ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT STUDY OF NABARD
20.     Obiective.  The objective of the study is to prepare a set of recom-
mendations and a timetable to strengthen NABARD's operations to make it a
more effective apex institution for agricultural credit.
21.     Study Implementation.  The study will start about eight months after
the other four studies have commenced. Its recommendations should be divided
into two parts: (i) the long-term reforms required, and (ii) those which can
be introduced immediately. The study should also take into account the
results of improvements made during the proposed NABARD I project in NABARD's
organization and operations.
22.     Detailed Terms of Reference.  The study should address:
(i) the staffing of NABARD, including managerial positions; are staff
and trai.ing adequate at all levels and if not, what is required to
remedy the situation as rapidly as possible; is delegation of
authority and the use of discretionary powers effectively used and
are personnel policies adequate;
(ii) arising out of (i) above, what is the adequacy of staff training
facilities both external and in-service; is training appropriate to
functions performed; if training is inadequate, how can it be
improved, not only in the long-term, but in the short-term;
(iii) in view of the recommendations of the four other studies concerning
the role and functions of NABARD, are NABARD's organization, opera-
tional and administrative guidelines and manuals, working methods,
and management structure and management practices appropriate, and if
not, how should they be adjusted. Specifically, the study should
review:
(a)  NABARD s accounting and data processing systems, and make
recommendations for the introduction of a computer system;
(b)  NABARD s management information requirements and how they
would be satisfied;
(c)  NABARD s operational procedures for appraisal of individual
investments and schemes; how can the quality of NABARD
appraisals, including technical and financial evaluation be
improved and made more effective; and how can control
systems be set up to assure adherence to NABARD guidelines,
conditions of disbursement, and eligibility criteria;



-86-                         ANNEX 4
Page 12
(d)  NABARD's procedures for updating guidelines for investment
costs, repayment schedules, and working capital
requirements. How could they be made more up-to-date,
flexible, and area specific; and
(e)  the functions and operations of NABARD's regional offices;
and
(f)  the effectiveness of NABARD's organization structure and
suggest changes where necessary.
(iv) the effectiveness of NABARD's monitoring and evaluation systems, both
for its own activities and for those investments it refinances. How
can the effectiveness of monitoring and evaluation operations and
follow-up be improved;
(v) the quality and effectiveness of NABARD's inspection operations. How
should inspections be enforced, and how should their findings be used
in the general operations of NABARD;
(vi) the quality and effectiveness of NABARD's participation and supervi-
sion of lending operations and credit planning at State, district and
block levels. How should directives be enforced and how should
effective RABARD participation in credit planning be ensured.
Specifically, NABARD's functions with rpbpect to IRDP should be
strengthened and improvements recommended;
(vii) the capacity of NABARD to guide, monitor and evaluate efforts to
strengthen the institutional framework and lending operations of
financial institutions it refinances, or tdose requiring rehabilita-
tion;
(viii) NABARD's role and capacity to monitor trainLng activities of its
client banks, and advise financial institutions on their training
needs, training organization and effectiveness and efficiency of
training activities; and
(ix)  how the recommendations developed above to strengthen NABARD's opera-
tions, should be implemented, and what assistance, if any, NABARD
should receive.



-87-
Table I
INDIA
N&AARD CREDIT PROJECT
Analvsis of LDB Demand and Recovery (1981182 - 1983184)
(Rs N)
1981L/1I.982    ----             198211963                          198311984
Net         Total                 Net        Total                  Net        Total
Demand 11   Recovery 11   %    Demand  |I Recovery 11   %           Demand /1 Recovery /1  Z
Uttar Pradesh           991.4        655.0      (66.1)  1.010.3       668.1    (66.1)   1.045.8         752.0    (71.9)
Andhra Pradesh          815.6        497.6      (61.0)    919.9       468.3    (50.9)   1,100.2         604.1    (54.9)
naharashtra             788.4        458.4      (58.1)    831.6       455.8    (54.8)        853.7      432.1    (50.6)
Tamil Nadu              499.9        244.2      (48.8)    411.8        194.9    (47.3)       439.5      234.1    (53.3)
Kalnataka               414.3        245.8      (59.3)    431.0       279.6    (64.9)       457.0       299.1    (65.4)
Madhya Pradesh          411.0         426.5     (59.0)    426.9       249.8    (58.5)        409.4      233.6    (57.1)
Punjab                  328.2        293.2      (89.3)    415.1       371.4    (89.5)       497.0       279.8    (56.3)
Haryana                 324.6        261.0      (80.4)    388.9       257.1    (73.8)       451.5       344.0    (76.2)
Bihar                   313.6        169.6      (54.1)    411.4       166.0    (40.4)       414.6       177.0    (42.7)
Rajasthan               261.6        155.5      (59.4)    315.1       175.9    (55.8)       373.3       212.1    (56.8)
Gujarat                 242.3        174.3      (71.9)    154.0       154.0    (56.0)       373.4       192.2    (51.5)
West Bengal             187.4         63.0      (33.6)    196.5        81.0    (41.2)       188.8        95.2    (50.4)
Orissa                  143.8         72.8      (50.6)    171.3        70.5    (41.2)       134.4        97.5    (72.5)
Kerala                  118.9         98.0      (82.4)    147.2       114.5    (77.8)       175.7       141.3    (80.4)
Samu and Kashmir          14.9         8.1      (54.4)      15.2        6.7    (44.1)         16.9        8.6    (50.9)
Assam                      9.5         3.0      (31.6)      12.3        4.2    (34.1)         18.0        6.7    (37.2)
Nicachal Pradesb           9.5         5.0      (52.6)      10.2        5.4    (52.9)          9.5        6.9    (72.6)
Tripura                    2.9         0.9      (31.0)       4.8        1.3    (27.1)          6.2        1.2    (19.4)
Pondicherry           __  4.2    _   1.4        (33.3)       3.8        1.0    (26.3)          4.1        2.0    (48.8)
5,882.0    3,649.3       (62.0)  6.398.5   3.755.5    (58.7)   6,969.0   4,119.5    (59.1)
J1  Set Demand excludes loans rescheduled and/or transferred to "Blocked Accounts" and Total Recovery includes
payments by State Governments against demand as follows:
___ 1981/1982                     __ 1982/1983    __                     198311984
Amounts       Recoveries          Amounts        Recoveries         Amounts       Recoveries
Rescheduled    from State         Rescheduled    from State         Rescheduled    from State
or Blocked          Govt          or Blocked          Govt          or Blocked          Govt
Uttar Pradesh               43.7                -             86.0                -             32.2
maharashtra               225.0             36.9             168.9            118.0            180.8           123.3
Tamil Nadu                     -             57.6            101.1             80.8             29.1             65.4
Karnataka                      -             6.5              35.4             92.6             20.2           100.7
Madbva Pradesh              11.4            23.3              24.0             14.4             59.6
Rar,yan_                    13.6                -             15.6                -                -
Bihar                       91.3                -             77.5                -                -
Gujarat                    479.3             37.4             45.3             24.0                -             36.3
West Bengal                    -                -             24.6                -             45.6
NRimachal Pradesh              -                -                 -               -              3.1
864.3           161.7             578.4            329.8            370.6           325.7
.,__..... . _. .............  _ .....    .    .. _   .__.... ..__
Indicative Ratios (for All-India):
1981/1982           1982/1983           1983/1984
Amounts rescheduled/transferred
to blocked accounts as % of
Gross Demand                               12.8:               8.3:                5.0:
Payments by State Govt an : of
Total Recoveries                            4.4:               8.8:                7.9:
Net Cash Recovery from Borrowers
as Z of Gross Demand                       51.7Z              49.12               51.7%



-88-                                                        A _
Table 2
INDIA
AURARD CREDIr PROJECT
Surmarv of Land Development Bank Recoveries (1974-1984) LI
Position as of June 30               1974   1975   1976    1977    1978    1979    1980   1981   1982         1983     1984
-     percent                                          (provisional)
I.   State LDB (with unitary structure)
Bihar                          66.4   66.4   65.2    42.0    *8.2    40.5    23.4   74.2   54.1 /2  40.4 /2  42.7
Gujarat                        54.6   27.6   43.7    36.8    31.3    25.3    21.0   23.7   71.9 /2  56.0 /2  51.5 /2
Himachal Pradesh               43.9   41.3   50.0    36.2    42.4    27.1    37.5   51.1   52.6         52.9      72.6
Jimnu and Kashmir              69.8   67.3   61.9    53.1    61.6    50.4    50.0   52.2   54.4         44.1      50.9
Naharashtra                    55.5   41.5   39.5 /2 37.2    42.4    80.6 12 53.8   34.7   58.1 /2  54.8 /2  50.6 /2
Pondicherry                       -       -      -        -       -    43.7    58.8   54.2   31.0       66.1      19.4
Tripura                           -       -      -        -       -        -       -       -   33.3     27.1      48.8
Uttar Pradesb                  77.3   75.0   83.1    76.1    73.3    72.4    75.3   70.0   66.1         26,3      71.9 /2
Weigbted Average       61.1   47.3   50.6    48.0    47.6    57.4    46.2   N.A.   62.2         56.9     57.7
II.  Primary LDBn
Andhra Pradesh                  78.0   78.0   74.8    71.0    72.6    66.6    70.0   57.9   61.0        50.9      54.9
Assam                          22.2   22.2   37.5    44.1    44.1    48.8   31.6   35.1   31.6          34.1      37.2
Haryann                        99.6   98.2   97.9    96.8    89.1    91.6    89.8   90.0   80.4 /2  73.8 /2  76.2
Karnataka                      62.0   59.9   58.1    46.6 /2 48.0    52.0 12 54.8   47.3   59.3         64.9 /2  65.4 /2
Kerala                         60.8   70.9   70.9    76.5    81.8    81.7    80.5   84.2   82.4         77.8      80.4
Madhya Pradesh                 52.1   53.1   59.0    46.5    52.1    43.8    32.6   50.0   59.0 (2  58.5 /2  57.1
Orissa                         50.0   43.1   68.0    46.9    67.2    57.2    39.6   60.5   50.6         41.2      72.5
Puinjab                        85.0   83.0   89.2    77.9    80.5    87.3    87.2   88.8   89.3         89.5      56.3
Rajasthan                      54.5   63.4   73.4    64.2    60.0    62.5    46.6   58.9   59.4         55.8      56.8
Tamil Nadu                     78.8   60.2   63.6    51.6 12 27.8 12 19.2 /2 11.3   33.6   48.8         47.3 /2  53.3 /2
Vest Bengal                    58.8   70.8   78.5    77.2   7Z.3    62.1    62.7   41.3   56.4          41.3 12  50.4 /2
Weighted Average       62.8   69.5   72.2    62.8    58.6    53.3    48.3   N.A.   61.9         59.9     60.0
tl Expressed as percentage of demand (principal and interest falling due during the year plus overdues
froix previous years).
12 After rescheduling during the year.



-89-
ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDIA
NARARD CREDIT PROJECT
Recovery Performance of LDB Branches (as of 6/30184)
Total
No. of                    Number of Branches with Recovery
LDB                 Branches        Over 75S         60 - 74S       40 - 59%      Less than 40%
No.      (Z)       No.   (Z)      No.   (Z)       No.    (Z)
Bihar                     164         19       (12)      25   (15)      62   (38)       58    (35)
Gujarat                   182         14        (8)      24   (13)      46   (25)       98    (54)
Karnataka                 177         72       (41)      59   (33)      33   (19)       13     (7)
Maharashtra               323         68       (21)      56   (17)      59   (18)      140    (44)
Madbya Pradesh             45          5       (11)      22   (49)      13   (29)        5    (11)
Orissa                     54         31       (57)      13   (24)       9   (17)        1     (2)
Tamil Nadu                183         54       (29)      31   (17)      56   (31)       42    (23)
West Bengal                24         10       (42)       1    (4)       5   (21)        8    (33)
Uttar Pradesh             254        132       (52)      68   (27)      38   (15)       16     (6)
1,406       405       (29)     299   (21)    321   (23)       381    (27)



-90-
ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDIA
NkBAMD CREDIT PROJECr
Recovery Status of RRBs as of 6130/83
Number of Branches with Recovery
No of   Total Advances      Total No.                                          Less Than
State              RRB.     Outstandiut       of Branches    Over 75Z   65 - 74Z   55 - 642          55Z
Rs a       2       No.     x
Andhra Pradesh      12      652    (10.5)    520   (7.6)         70          172        150           128
Assam                5        71     (1.1)    137   (2.0)         -           25        112             -
Bihar               17      805    (12.9)  1,253  (18.4)          -          70         105         1,078
Gujarat              4       30      (0.5)      88   (1.3)        -           38          4            46
Haryana              2       160     (2.6)    149   (2.2)         -            -         82            67
Himachal Pradesh    1        48      (0.8)      72   (1.1)        -           -           -            72
Jamn & Kashcir       3       65      (1.0)    177   (2.6)         -          49          65            63
Karnataka            8       571     (9.2)    465   (6.8)       170           -         132           163
Kerala               2      425      (6.8)    226   (3.30         -          119        107             -
Madhya Pradesh      18      362      (5.8)    559   (9.7)        22          233        156           248
Maharashtra          3       108     (1.7)    125   (1.8)         5            -          -           120
Manipur              1         2        -        5   (0.1)        5            -          -             -
Meghalaya            1        -         _        6   (0.1)        6           -           -             _
Najaland             1        -                  -                -           -           -             -
Orissa               9      665    (10.7)    510   (7.5)         56          27          74           353
Punjab               3         1        -3                        3           -           -             -
Rajasthan            9      478      (7.6)    388   (5.7)       128          34           2           224
Tamil Nadu           1       182     (2.9)    108   (1.6)         -           -         108             -
Tripura              1      119      (1.9)      51   (0.7)        -           -           -            51
Uttar Pradesh       33    1,163    (18.7)  1,429  (21.0)         37         204         237           951
West Bengal          8      330      (5.3)    441   (6.5)         -          76           -           365
142    6,237       100   6,812    100       502        1,047       1,334        3,929
a*     ===       = e_ss.= aa_       S     t--          fe



-91-                                 ANNEX 5
Table 5
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Recovery of Agricultural Loans of Commercial Banks by Region/State L1 (1975-1981)
Position as of June 30                 1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
--_------percent of denaud L--                       -
Northern Region                        55.7    59.3    59.8    64.7    66.0    68.9    64.2
Haryana                              66.2    66.4    66.0    67.9    65.7    66.3    58.7
Himachal Pradesh                     57.1    51.8    40.4    46.8    44.3    54.5    43.6
Jamu and Kashmir                     46.0    42.3    48.1    62.6    47.5    48.5    48.4
Punjab                               64.8    69.9    71.5    76.4    79.3    80.7    76.7
Rajasthan                            '6.5    50.3    49.5    50.0    50.7    52.8    46.1
Northeastern Region                    32.3    35.9    32.5    34.0    31.8    31.2    31.9
Assam                                25.4    30.2    34.4    29.8    26.8    25.3    22.8
Manipur                              39.6    35.1      8.7    30.1    30.9    23.9    36.9
Nagaland                             13.0    81.1    61.7    26.2    51.3    56.6    60.3
Tripura                              51.9    54.7    38.4    69.2    46.2    46.2    51.5
Eastern Region                         37.2    39.8    40.4    39.2    38.2    35.5    34.1
Bihar                                40.2    45.7    40.6    35.8    31.7    35.5    37.8
Orissa                               47.8    41.8    41.2    41.8    45.5    44.7    34.9
West Bengal                          31.6    33.7    28.5    40.9    39.8    31.3    30.3
Central Region                         49.8    53.7    52.5    50.6    50.9    48.2    51.1
Madhya Pradesh                       45.1    45.8    43.5    38.9    38.3    37.8    43.0
Uttar Pradesh                        52.2    57.8    56.4    56.5    57.1    53.5    54.9
Western Region                         39.8    40.4    37.6    39.2    43.5    44.5    48.9
Gujarat                              42.0    41.4    42.2    40.2    49.6    48.6    52.0
Maharashtra                          38.4    39.5    34.9    37.9    39.7    42.0    47.3
Goa, Daman and Diu                   72.3    69.9    59.5    76.3    69.2    58.1    48.8
Southern Region                        61.9    59.6    55.1    55.3    57.5    54.5    55.8
Andhra Pradesh                       66.7    65.3    55.2    57.9    60.5    54.0    53.2
Karnataka                            54.0    53.9    51.7    47.4    49.2    50.7    50.8
Kerala                               74.1    71.3    68.0    68.4    71.1    68.3    69.1
Tamil Nadu                           54.7    51.1    51.4    53.0    54.6    53.1    58.2
All-India                              51.6    51.9    50.0    51.2    53.1    52.1    52.9
L Information refers to all scheduled Commercial Banks.
/2 CB overdues are calculated on the basis of short and long-term credits.



-92-                              ANNEX 5
Table 6
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Demand and Collection of Agriculture loans of Commercial Banks (1979-1982)
(Rs N)
Recovery as
Demand      Collections       x of Demand
1979:  Short-term             5,624          3,316            59.0
Term Loans             4,457          2.039            45.8
Total                 10.081          5.355            53.1 /1
1980:  Short-term             6,269          3,682            58.7
Term Loans             5.638          2.597            46.1
Total                 11.907          6,279            52.7 /1
1981:  Short-term              7,894         4,636            58.7
Term Loans             7,546          3.534            46.8
Total                 15.440          8.170            52.9
1982:  Short-term             8,794          5,153            58.6
Term Loans /2          9,323          4.368            46.9
Total                 18 117          9,521            52.6
/1  Age-Analysis of Total Overdues (Demand   - Recovery)
1979                  1980
Amt.     Z            MAt.      z
Less than 1 year           1,591   (34)           1,801   (32)
1 - 2 years          1,045   (22)          1,238   (22)
2 - 3 years            727   (15)            844   (15)
over 3 years          1.363   (29)          1.745   (31)
4.726  (100)          5.628  (100)
/2 Provisional data.



-93-                                ANNEX 6
INDIA
NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
Documents in Proiect File
1. NABARD       First NABARD Credit Project:
(a) Part 1, Main Report, April 1983.
(b) Part 1, Update, October 1983.
(c) Part 1, Supplement, October 1983.
(d) Part II, Annexes, April 1983.
(e) Part II, Update, November 1984.
(f)  Additional Data Volume, Novembe- 1984.
2.  NABARD      Pilot Project for Strengthening of the Credit Delivery
System in India, February 1984.
3.              Data on LDB Recovery for Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra,
Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal.
4.              Expenditure on Cash Inputs, Long-Term Investments and
Short- and Long-Term Credit 1971/72 - 1982/83.
5.              Changes in State-vise Short- and Long-Term Credit per
Hectare and Share of IRDP of NABARD Refinance for
1977/78 - 1980/81.
6.              Financial and Economic Analysis of 12 Investment Models.
7.              Insurance of Failed Wells.
8.              NAEARD Schematic Lending by State and Subsector - FY83/84.
9.              Proposed NABARD Schematic Lending by State and Subsector
FY84/85 - 87/88.



INDIA
NATIONAL BANK FOR AGRICUlTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMEN1
Organizatlon Cha of Heod Otce
lAqVGM MCIOR
~~IV ttI                                     I                   OAW.,ann
CGM                                       ClM                 c:m
GM          1---W..I                             * C         GM                                    I           A 
Ght   (iNt       G~"Vw&t       a&t                                                                                                pan'  l    tzz       
M----Vrmp"ff"[O"1]                                       ri*hdfmwd                  __D-Y V                 O - i        O - Wq1w
Dopm*drJ                                               D lw lin  IC lvUi9                     (50~ Odi)                               Uwnm      vpIr~d~i
LIII                                           Ei                 1          ~M 1x(iN
-                                                                                                      I <4 s .
thr     W 1          onAW .i   s )    vd'a &
tt~~~~~ Aut DMSl
.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~atlw                                        (Cftnock
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-k                                                                                    FM L         C-
POO        -    I&s   t\ tdo.
kI|M  WMa  - M0. tw krgMAmmNIlhl  I M          w&
'sot    - Rcith  G  *X Mh a I Gom DaloNo 



i I                     r---S 
es1           ~'     F .,
o   *t   I     I           'I
X,~~~~~I                             -



-96-
INDIA
NAIONAL BK FOR AGRICULPUAE AND RURAL DEVELOPMEN
Ma*jo  IndsiorI FundKM    fr Agcultxrl Term Loans
\ 1 -5Yv oIw
\ ~~~~~~12YOM25S    
'IJon.s~'vnnt  NBAD TDFtjd   roWeedoNABARD .
/   /   7b1  Y\ ~6.5% &l &
5  to &15O YOM                           O&tS           Ail
\ 7 / sss v , T 7.5
75S8 io Is5YVss
Q6I m~~m ~muaI conhIbStOn to7fto 1u cl
< 8.0S & 1OJ   5 tt2 15 V                                4
QRlls ~        1-5ve Y:B& 10S\ 5 to t5 Yocn    \      h1       1-Sy  Y   ^& IO%
5~ ~~ to 15             1SYe
1-5~~~~~~~ tov 8S hYom_ \ 
Ow5tYem 11%                                 &
(Anew fban LeryS to Bo>wl)
(RQt & Maturdls cm Uul Teml of Decwner. 1984)
UDOn 1gbon of NA4B LTO kind wm tos tftorl     to NABtRD.
ROl mdm co   conldbuoo to f FunLa
We   ka-27142



IBRD 1 S2
AFGHANISTAN )r*  
g           br}  It~~ASlgWfR                                                I    N D I A
>             <g"^"~NIA;^At-2v                           NABARD CREDIT PROJECT
P A    I ST A       PUh}AUS                         C H I N A
.HARYANA         
>      ^>-tOE                >-    ~~~NEPAL    H                 T          Nt            _          S
"_Sffl ~UTARHY PRADESH                                                                               DES-\- 
G2AA                                                                                   lES U  t  AS   R    
*>       >MAHY PRADESH                                     BNA
1-5  ~>                                        ORISSACS  RE
20' ~   ~       ~      KA^^TK            -  ,
_; ~ ~ GO                                                                                  opsKRA* j  RSADCU
r " F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONAA BANK (CB)
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (~~~~~~~~~~~0wlo   -xpos                                            nl ao ofAnSEt dEEanandiiN
e_r- ~ ~ ~~ANA!                                                                    MAO CRO AREAS 
1$  ^ -_I Od ^_, S 0_   }-  _>  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IC
__J    _._     ~~.04 1               NAD                                            JOWG, R00 ORGHUm     l
__C      _d                                                                             RA(MILLET    30)           0
_ ~ ~ ~ ~~~XRL                                                                      FOETAN  CU
Th.                                                SILAK
.f   ~   .                            5        .2                                      SPREEAIN






