Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14012-MA
MULTILATERAL FUND UNDER THE MONTREAL PROTOCOL
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
FOR COUNTRY DEPARTKENT 1
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT, EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION
ON A
PROPOSED OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$20.0 MILLION
TO MALAYSIA
FOR A
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
AUGUST 11, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of December 1994)
Currency Unit  Ringit (R)
US$0.4 = R1.00
US$1.00 = R2.5
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CP          Country Program (for ODS Phase-out)
CETEC       Center for Environmental Technologies
DOE         Department of Environment, Ministry of Science.
Technology and Environment
EA          Environmental Assessment
EPU         Economic Planning Unit of the Prime Minister's
Office
MAC         Mobile Air-conditioning
MF          Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol
MP          Montreal Protocol
MT          Metric Tons
MFEC        Multilateral Fund Executive Committee
ODS         Ozone Depleting Substances, or Controlled
Substances as defined by the Montreal Protocol
ODP         Ozone Depleting Potential (CFC 11 = 1.0)
OORG        Ozone Operations Resource Group (External
Technical Reviews)
OTF         Ozone Project Trust Fund of the World Bank for
the Substances as defined by the Montreal
Protocol
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNEP        United Nations Environment Program
FISCAL YEAR (MALAYSIA)
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



MALAYSIA
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING
SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AND GRANT SUMMARY
Project Description                         The Project would assist Malaysia to
implement an accelerated ODS phase-out
program by providing financing for
priority subprojects.
Executing Agency                            Department of Environment (DOE)
Local Implementing Agent                    Center for Environmental Technologies
(CETEC)
Beneficiaries                               Local  Enterprises  introducing  ODS
reducing technologies;
Grant Amount                                US$ 20.0 million equivalent
Terms                                       Grant
Re-lending Terms                            Grant
Project Cost Summary                        Component                 US$ Million
Grants for ODS
Investment Subprojects           20.0
Commercial Loans/or               5.0
Enterprise Own Funds (est.)
TOTAL                            25.0
Net Present Value                           N/A
Staff Appraisal Report                      N/A






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTOR
COUNTRY DEPARTMENT 1
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION
1.        I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND 1' grant to Malaysia for the equivalent of
US$20.0 million to help finance priority subprojects for the phase-out of ozone depleting
substances.
2.        Background. Malaysia ratified the Montreal Protocol (MP) on Substances that
Deplete the Ozone Layer in November 1989 and qualifies for assistance from the Multilateral
Fund for Implementation (MF) of the Montreal Protocol, which was established in the London
Amendments to the MP. As a country operating under Article V of the MP, Malaysia is
eligible for grants from OTF, which the Bank administers with funds provided by MF to cover
incremental costs of activities to phase out the production and consumption of ozone depleting
substances (ODS). MP requires industrialized countries to halt production and consumption of
most ODS by the end of 1995. Article V countries which historically consumed small
quantities of ODS, are allowed to phase out more gradually and must completely eliminate
CFCs and Halons controlled under the MP by 2010.
3.        Based on a National Study on Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) conducted with
the assistance of the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the Government of
Malaysia completed its Country Program (CP) in November of 1991, which was one of the
first to be approved by the MFEC. Malaysia consumed about 3896 MT of ODP weighted 2'
ODS in 1993. The breakdown of ODS by user sector is as follows: refrigeration and air
conditioning 51.9% (including mobile air conditioning 14.7%, residential and small
commercial air conditioning 29.3%, refrigeration 7.9%), solvent cleaning 35.2%, aerosols
2.3%, and fire fighting 1%.
4.        Malaysia has voluntarily committed to a complete phase-out of the use of CFCs
and Halons by the end of the year 2000. In June 1994 Malaysia established its own Montreal
Protocol unit in the Department of Environment (DOE) to oversee the national phase-out effort
funded under the UNDP implemented Institutional Strengthening Project. To support the
implementation of its phase-out under the Bank's workprogram, the Government of Malaysia
through DOE appointed the Center for Environmental Technologies (CETEC) as an
Implementing Agent for ODS phase-out projects. CETEC is a non-governmental organization
1/   The Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) has been established under the Interim Multilateral Fund for the
Implementation of the Montreal Protocol. Its purpose is to fund activities which enable developing countries who are
signatories of the Protocol, to comply with their obligations under the Protocol. The OTF is administered by the
World Bank.
2/   Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP) is a measure to compare the depleting potential of various ozone depleting
substance (ODS), e.g. CFC 11 has an ODP of 1.



- 2 -
originally formed by an association of professionals in the field of engineering and
environment. So far CETEC has undertaken two assignments through which it gained
experience in the field of ODS phase-out: in 1994, it prepared the update of the CP for the
Government and it worked as local counterpart with international consultants in the
identification and preparation of subprojects. The Economic Planning Unit (EPU) of the Prime
Minister's Office has been involved in the national ODS phase-out program since 1992 and
signed as representative of the Government the Grant Agreement with the Bank for an ODS
Recycling Project.
5.        In terms of Bank implemented Montreal Protocol projects, the Multilateral Fund
Executive Committee (MFEC) approved US$1.63 million in November of 1992 for a ODS
Recycling Project which has a Mobile Air Conditioning and Halon Recycling Component. In
November 1993 it approved another $100,000 for the update of the Country Program and for
preparation of about 15 investment subprojects. In December 1994, the MFEC approved about
$2 million for three subprojects in the aerosol and domestic refrigeration sectors. In total the
MFEC had, as of 1994, approved $15.0 million to support about 52 phase-out related activities
for implementation by UNDP, UNEP, and the Bank.
6.        The Bank prepared and reviewed an Executive Project Sumrnary for an ODS
phase-out investment project as early as 1991. However, the implementation of the ODS
Recycling Project took priority in the following years and it was only in 1993, after the
concept of the Umbrella Agreement had become available, that active preparation of an ODS
investment project was resumed and that DOE formally requested the Bank to be the
implementing agency for such project.
7.        Project Objectives and Approach. The overall objective of the project is to assist
the Government in carrying out its Country Program to phase out ODS by implementing cost-
effective investment subprojects which reduce consumption of ODS in Malaysia.
8.        The multi-sector project will be executed under an umbrella grant agreement to be
signed between the Government (represented by EPU and the Bank). This approach has been
chosen in order to facilitate processing of multiple subprojects under one single agreement.
The umbrella agreement will spell out the flow of funds from the Bank's OTF through the
Government of Malaysia to approved subprojects. Funding of subprojects under the umbrella
agreement will be subject to prior approval of each subproject by MFEC and the Bank (or by
the Bank only in case of subprojects below US$500,000) and transfer of approved funds from
the MFEC to the Bank's OTF.
9.        The project will be implemented through the Center for Environmental
Technologies (CETEC) as the local implementing agent under supervision of DOE as the
responsible government agency. CETEC has been selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
DOE will enter into a memorandum of agreement with CETEC which would spell out the
respective roles and responsibilities of CETEC and DOE.



- 3 -
10.         Project Description. The Project will support about 30 ODS phase-out subprojects
to be implemented by ODS consuming enterprises during the next three years and to be funded
under this umbrella project. It will cover major ODS use sectors in Malaysia including
refrigeration, air-conditioning, foams, aerosols, solvents, and halon. The first three already
approved subprojects will result in the phase-out of about 339 MT of ODP annually. A list of
a first group of approved subprojects is attached in Annex I, and a description of these projects
can be found in Annex 11. A timetable with key project processing events is given in Schedule
C. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
11.         Project Costs and Financing. Total cost of all subprojects will amount to about
US$25 million of which an estimated US$16.95 million represent incremental costs eligible for
grant funding. The total grant will amount to an estimated US$20 million including a 3%
financial agent fee and 15% for contingencies. In accordance with MP guidelines, retroactive
financing is allowed for any expenditure incurred after the date of ratification of the Montreal
Protocol by Malaysia. A break down of costs for approved subprojects and a financing plan
can be found in Schedule A. A disbursement schedule is presented in Schedule B.
PROJECT COST
Project Costs           Proposed OTF
(US$ Million)             Grant b/
Investment    Net Recurring  Total
Costs        Costs    Eligible
(4 Yrs)  Incremental
Cost at
Approved Subprojects:               2.2           0.8          1.7         2.0
Subprojeets for Future Approval (est.)  19.8      2.2         15.2         18.0
TOTAL PROJECT                       22.0          3.0         16.9         20.0
a/ Eligible incremental cost = incremental cost x share of local ownership.
b/ Includes eligible incremental cost, 15% contingency for pre-appraised and 3% fee for local implementing
agent.
12.         Project Implementation. DOE will have responsibility for the overall ODS phase-
out program and will monitor progress of project implementation. DOE will review and
endorse each subproject prior to submission to the MFEC for funding to ensure that cost-
effective technologies will be applied and that the subproject conforms to Country Program
priorities. CETEC, the local implementing agent, will be responsible for implementation of the



- 4 -
project, including the preparation of subproject appraisal reports, the verification of
disbursement requests by subproject proponents, and supervision of subproject implementation.
For its services, CETEC will receive a fee of 3% of the subgrant amounts, to be disbursed as
follows: one third (equivalent to 1 % of the appraised subgrant amount excluding contingencies)
following the approval of the subproject by the MFEC (or the Bank in case of subprojects of
less than US$500,000), and two thirds (equivalent of 2% of actually disbursed amounts) upon
disbursement of the subgrants to the subprojects. CETEC would be guided by subproject
eligibility, appraisal and financing criteria for Montreal Protocol projects (summarized in
Annex V). CETEC will draft detailed Operating Policy Guidelines (OPGs) acceptable to the
Bank (see Annex III) for adoption by DOE which will be a condition of grant effectiveness.
13.       Subproiect Proponents will be responsible for the implementation of the subproject.
Their obligations will be spelled out in a sub-grant agreement to be signed between the
subproject proponent and DOE. A model sub-grant agreement acceptable to the Bank would
be prepared by CETEC as part of the OPGs.
14.       As Trustee of the OTF, the Bank will be responsible for supervising all aspects of
project implementation. It will review each subproject appraisal report prepared by CETEC to
ensure compliance with MFEC guidelines prior to seeking the latter's approval (i.e. there is no
free limit as required under the OTF agreement with the MFEC).
15.       Flow of Funds. Funds would flow from the Bank's OTF to a Special Account of
US$1.5 million which DOE would establish in its own name in the Central Bank of Malaysia,
following Bank Guidelines. From there, funds would be drawn down by DOE for payments
directly to the subprojects, subject to verification by CETEC. DOE will also be responsible
for submitting the applications for with-drawal and replenishment of the Special Account to the
Bank. This account will be used for both local and foreign expenditures. Larger expenditures,
exceeding 20% of the special account, can be submitted by DOE to the Bank for direct
payment to the subproject or its supplier.
16.       Interest income earned on the outstanding balance of the Special Account would be
used by DOE for purposes, such as Montreal Protocol related training and participation in
international conferences to update DOE's technical know how.
17.       Reporting and Monitoring. The DOE would submit semi-annual progress reports to
the Bank and to EPU to be prepared by CETEC. DOE will also provide for the preparation of
an annual audit report by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. For the purposes of
this Project, the Office of the Auditor General is acceptable to the Bank. DOE will submit
monthly financial statements on the Special Account to the Bank with copy to EPU and
CETEC. r'inally, DOE and the Bank will carry out joint annual reviews to monitor progress
in project implementation.
18.       Procurement and Disbursement. Procurement of goods, works and services under
this grant will be undertaken by the subproject proponent in accordance with Bank



Procurement Procedures. (Detailed procurement guidelines are attached in Annex IV.)
CETEC will satisfy itself that the goods, works and services to be purchased are for the
investment subprojects and are reasonably priced, by ensuring that the grant recipient has
followed the guidelines agreed under this Project. Whenever consultants will be required, they
will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Disbursement
will follow Bank Guidelines. (Detailed disbursement guidelines for this project are attached in
Annex IV).
19.       Lessons from Previous Bank Experience.  OTF Projects are being developed
simultaneously in Mexico, Venezuela, China, Thailand, Philippines, Turkey, and other
countries. An umbrella agreement was recently signed with Thailand and Indonesia but none
of the projects has been completed so far. However, based on the Bank's early experience
with MP operations, which is documented in the Implementation Performance Review
(December 1994), it is clear that no single aspect of project implementation is more important
than the establishment of local capacity to deal with ODS phase-out activities. This typically
required the selection of a local implementing agent as operating unit in addition to
strengthening an Ozone Desk in the key government agency as coordinating body. Also, given
that the MP program is being implemented in a dynamic and fast changing technical
environment, it is necessary that the relevant agencies remain responsive to new situations and
flexible in adjusting procedures to new circumstances.
20.       Project Sustainability. The Project will assist the Government in establishing an
efficient mechanism for developing and funding subprojects under the ODS phase-out program.
In order to achieve a sustainable and cost-effective phase out of ODS with a broad coverage of
the various ODS consuming sectors, the Government has adopted a strategy which combines
awareness programs, technical and financial assistance to enterprise specific phase out
programs, and regulatory measures, such as the requirement of an 'approval permit' for the
import of ODS. In addition, given Malaysia's policy of an open market economy, it can be
expected that international market forces, in particular rising prices for ODS and falling prices
for ODS substitutes will act as an additional incentive for industry to accelerate ODS phase-
out.
21.       Rationale for Use of Ozone Tnrst Fund. The projects will help the Government
implement an accelerated ODS phase-out program. The MFEC has approved the use of grants
from the Ozone Trust Fund for this purpose. The proposed Project is consistent with the
Implementation Guidelines and Criteria for OTF funding established by the MFEC, for which
the Bank is an implementing agency.
22.       Environmental Considerations.   The overall objective of this project is
environmental. This Project is expected to result in a significant reduction in ODS consumption
in the country through introduction of non-ODS technology and initiation of recycling
activities. However, the change to non-ODS technologies or substitution of ODS with other
chemicals may involve other environmental risks, such as atmospheric releases of substitute
chemicals, in particular hydrocarbons, and water pollution, particularly from use of aqueous
base solvents. Together with the appraisal report, CETEC will submit a certification, to be



- 6 -
issued by DOE, that the subproject has complied with the Environment Quality Act of 1974
and its regulations.
23.       Project Benefits.  The subprojects already approved under this Project will
contribute to annual savings of 339 MT ODP, or approximately 10% of Malaysia's ODS use
in 1993. Assuming an average ODS phase-out of 25 MT ODP for the estimated 27 additional
subprojects, the total ODS reduction under the project would amount to 1014 MT ODP or
about 26% of 1993 total ODP consumption.
24.       Project Risks. Institutional weakness of local agencies could limit the ability to
effectively implement and monitor the Project in a timely manner. In the context of the MOA,
CETEC will prepare a staffing plan to ensure the necessary technical capabilities. DOE will
maintain its Montreal Protocol unit during project implementation.
25.       Agreed Actions. Agreement has been reached with Government on the following
points, which would constitute conditions of grant effectiveness:
(i) The Government, represented by DOE, has entered into a Memorandum of
Agreement with CETEC acceptable to the Bank that would include, inter
alia, a staffing plan for CETEC;
(ii) CETEC has prepared and DOE has adopted Operating Policy Guidelines
acceptable to the Bank, including a subgrant agreement format.
Recommendation
26.       I am satisfied that the proposed grant would comply with the relevant provisions of
the Ozone Projects Trust Fund in Resolution 9-15 of the Executive Directors and I recommend
that the Regional Vice President approve it.
Callisto Madavo
Director
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Region
Washington, D.C.
August 11, 1995
Attachments



-7-
Schedule A
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
Schedule A
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
LIST OF SUBPROJECTS
PROPOSED COSTS
Subproject Costs                    Local         Eligible       Proposed
(US$ Million)                  Ownership   Incremental   OTF Grant
Company           End Use                                                          Se           Costs!'       (US$ m)2'
Investment         Net           Total
Cost        Recurring    Incremental
Costs
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (4  Y rs)11   j   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ __4_Yrs
|  Approved
Subprojects
1.    Matsushita Elec. Co.    Refrigerators       1.06           0.83            1.89           56.9            1.08            1.28
2.    Kontrak Mfg. Services   Aerosols            1.03              0            1.03            51             0.52            0.62
3.    Argon Malaysia Co.   Aerosols               0.11              0            0.11            100            0.11            0.13
Subtotal Approved                           2.20           0.83            3.03                           1.71            2.03
[      Future Subprojects                          19.80           2.17           21.97                          15.24           17.97
[       TOTAL                                      22.00 |         3.00           25.00 |              |         16.95 |0.001D
1/ Eligible Incremental Cost equal incremental costs multiplied by percent local ownership.
2v     Grant amount equals incremental costs multiplied by percent of local ownership. Includes contingencies of
15 % for preappraised projects and 3 % local implementing agent fee.
3/     Net present value (NPV) of first four years of operating costs/savings discounted at 10%. Negative numbers
indicate net operating savings.



-8 -
Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
MALAYSIA
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
Schedule A
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
FINANCING PLAN
Conmmercial Loans/or Enterprise l
Approved Subprojects     _ __(OTF Grant              Own Funds                      Total
- Matsushita Electrical Co., M Bhd  1.28             0.61                            1.89
- Kontrak Manufacturing Serv.       0.62             0.41                            1.03
A Argon Aerosol Co.                 0.13             0.0                            0.13
Identified and Proposed Future Subprojects  17.98    3.98                           21.95
(estimated)                                                                                           l
TOTAL                               20.00            5.00                           25.00



-9 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
Schedule B
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Total procurement under the grant will amount to US$20 million for about 30
subprojects whose procurement will be administered following ICB or the procurement
practices of private industry in Malaysia which the Bank has examined and found acceptable,
consisting at a minimum of the following:
Goods and Works
(i)  contracts over US$ 2 million equivalent (excluding proprietary packages) would
be procured under ICB procedures;
For contracts below the ICB threshold, procurement would follow the
procurement practices of private industry in Malaysia which the Bank has
examined and found acceptable, consisting at a minimum of the following:
(ii)  contracts between US$200,000 and US$2 equivalent million would be procured
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three
qualified suppliers from at least two countries; and
(iii) contracts below US$200,000 would be procured on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers.
(iv) goods which are (a) of a proprietary nature, (b) must be purchased from the
original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, or (c) must be
procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a performance guarantee,
may be provided directly from the supplier in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank (Direct Contracting).
Consultants
(v)  Contracting of Consultants shall be engaged on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as
Executing Agency" (August 1981).



- 10 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 3
Prior Review
Prior review is required with respect to each contract:
(i)  over US$2 million;
(ii)  for hiring of individual consultants, if the contract price exceeds
US$50,000, and for hiring of consulting firms, if the contract price
exceeds US$100,000.
(iii)  for goods procured under Direct Contracting.



- 11 -
Schedule B
Page 3 of 3
MALAYSIA
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
Schedule B
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the
OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
OTF Grant Allocated    % of
(Expressed in US     Expenditures
Category                         Dollar Equivalent    to be Financed
(1)  Goods, Works, and Services Financed       19,417,000          100%
under Subgrants
(2)  Agent Fees                                  583,000           100%
TOTAL                            20,000,000         100%
Disbursement Table
Disbursements
(US$ Thousand)
CY 1995          CY 1996        CY 1997    CY 1998
Annual                    750             5,000          10,000       4,250
Cumulative                 750            5,750          15,750      20,000
Percentage:               4%               29%            79%         100%
Cumulative



- 12 -
Schedule C
MALAYSIA
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
Schedule C
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
_               Event           Date        Other
a)     Preparation (Time                  18 months
Taken)
b)     Prepared by         DOE with Bank Assistance
c)     First Presentation to  08/14/93
the Bank
d)    Departure of Bank    09/15/94
Mission
e)     Date for            05/05/95
Negotiations
f)     Planned Date of     09/30/95
Effectiveness
g)     List of Relevant    Not Applicable
PCR's and PPAR's
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank mission which visited Malaysia in
September 1994. The mission included Messrs. K. von Ritter (Mission Leader), P. Linquiti
and A. Karmali (Consultants). Peer reviewers were Paul Martin (EA3EN) and Ms. Jessica
Poppele (ENVGC). The document was cleared by Mr. Jeffrey Gutman (Chief, EA1AE), and
Mr. Callisto E. Madavo (Director EA1).



- 13 -
MALAYSIA
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents of Technical Annexes
Annex I        List of Subprojects:
Summary of ODS Reduction
Annex II       Description of Approved Subprojects
Annex III      Processing Steps for Subproject Proposals
Annex IV       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex V        Guidelines for Subproject Eligibility, Grant Funding, and Preparation of
Appraisal Reports



- 14 -
ANNEX I
MALAYSIA: MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
ANNEX I: LIST OF SUBPROJECTS
ESTIMATED ODS REDUCTION SUMMARY
|   End Use  ODS Consumption    ODS Used       ODS Reduction    Cost Effectiveness
in 1991 (NT)      (type)        (ODP MT/year)      $/kg ODP/year
Approved Subprojects:
Matsushita            Refrigeration            80.6    CFC - 11              101                   N.C
18.0    CFC - 12
11.4    1,1,1 TCE
2.    Kontrak               Aerosols                200.0                          200                    0.63
3.    Argon                 Aerosols                 38.0                           38                    0.67
Subtotal                                                                     339
Future Subprojects  1              1                                  r      675
(est):              l              l_l_l_l
GRAND TOTAL         l              l                  l              l       1014       l



- 15 -
ANNEX II
MALAYSIA: MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
ANNEX H: DESCRIPTION OF APPROVED SUBPROJECTS
1.   Matsushita Electric Co., (M) Bhd.
This subproject at Matsushita Electric Co. (MELCOM) is designed to phase out of
CFC-1 1, CFC-12 and 1,1,1 TCE in manufacturing household refrigerators. The subproject
has a total cost of US$1.89 million and a grant of US$ 1.28 million was approved by MFEC
in December 1994. It consists of three phases: substituting HCFC-141b for CFC-1 1,
eliminating 1,1,1 TCE as the solvent cleaner, and substituting HFC-134a for CFC-12
refrigerant. The enterprise is 56.9% Malaysian owned.
2.   Kontrak Manufacturing Services, Sdn. Bhd.
This subproject will phase out 100 MT of CFC 11/12 by converting Kontrak's aerosol
filler lines from CFC propellant to hydrocarbon propellants and an additional 100 MT by
servicing smaller CFC propellant through a second filler line in an effort to provide those
smaller users with a safe and cost-effective source of hydrocarbon propellants (HAPS). The
subproject will assist KMS in the purchase of filling equipment, storage tanks, deodorizing
columns for gas purification, and safety equipment. The total subproject cost is US$1.03
million and a grant of US$618,000 was approved by the MFEC in December 1994. The
enterprise is 51% Malaysian owned.
3.   Argon Malaysia Co.
This subproject will phase out 38 MT of CFC by converting Argon's aerosol filler
lines from CFC propellant to hydrocarbon propellants. The subproject will assist Argon in
the purchase of filling equipment and safety equipment. The total subproject cost is
US$131,200 and a grant fund for an equal amount was approved by the MFEC in December
1994. The enterprise is 100% Malaysian owned.



- 16 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA: MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
ANNEX III: PROCESSING STEPS FOR SUBPROJECT PROPOSALS
The following is a summary of key processing steps subprojects have to follow when
requesting OTF funding under this Project. [CETEC will elaborate these steps into detailed
Operating Policy Guidelines acceptable to the Bank and adopted by DOE].
a.  Subproject Identification: DOE, CETEC, and interested enterprises
are entitled to identify possible ODS phase-out subprojects.
b. Subproject preparation: subproject proponents are responsible for
preparing the subproject proposals, but may request assistance from
CETEC and DOE.
c.  DOE endorsement of proposal and initial OORG consultation: DOE
will endorse each subproject prior to appraisal to ensure that the
subproject proposal confonns to priorities established under the
Country Program. DOE may choose to submit copies of the subproject
proposals to the external experts (OORG members) to obtain advise
and guidance on the choice of technology and project design, in line
with sound international practice, in order to facilitate the preparation
of the proposal. A list of the reviewers would be available through the
World Bank.
d.  Financing arrangements: - in case of subprojects, where the OTF
grant covers only part of the total project costs, subproject proponent
will have to provide a financing plan (using own resources or
commercial loans) for the uncovered balance by the time of appraisal.
e.  Environmental clearance: the subproject proponent will obtain the
environmental clearances for the subproject required under national
laws and regulations by the time of appraisal.
f.  Subproject appraisal: CETEC will appraise subprojects based on
Montreal Protocol and Bank guidelines summarized in Annex V.
CETEC would prepare appraisal summaries and reports in a format
acceptable to the Bank.
g.  DOE endorsement of Appraisal: DOE will endorse each appraisal
summary and report received from CETEC before submitting it to the
Bank for technical review and approval by the MFEC.



- 17 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
h.  Technical review and Bank endorsement of appraisal: The Bank will
review each appraisal report prepared by CETEC, oversee the
technical reviews of subproject proposals by external reviewers and
ensure that subprojects are consistent with MFEC guidelines (no free
limit in accordance with MFEC guidelines). The technical review
should be communicated in an instructive and clear manner to enable
the subproject proponents to respond effectively to the
recommendations. Once endorsed, the Bank will submit subproject
proposals for over US$500,000 to the MFEC for approval of funding.
i.  Subproiect approval: For subprojects over US$500,000, MFEC
approval is required for each project. Subprojects of less than
US$500,000 can be approved by the Bank under conditions and rules
established by the MFEC.
j. Subproject Implementation: Once the subproject has been approved,
the subproject proponent will be responsible for implementation of the
subproject. For that purpose, it will sign a sub-grant agreement with
DOE. The agreement will spell out the responsibilities of the
subproject proponent and its committment to undertake the necessary
activities agreed upon in the subproject proposal in order to achieve
the intended ODS phase-out.
k.  Procurement: Procurement of goods, works and services under this
project will be undertaken by the subproject proponent in accordance
with agreed procurement guidelines under this project which are
spelled out in detail in Annex IV. CETEC will satisfy itself that
subprojects follow the agreed procurement guidelines.
1.  Disbursement of Subgrant: Subprojects would submit requests for
payments under this project to CETEC. CETEC will verify the
eligibility and the amount of the requested payment and prepare a
notification to DOE endorsing the release of funds to the subproject
(see Annex IV).



- 18 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
m. Disbursement of Operating Costs: The following procedure may be
considered for disbursement of subgrants for eligible incremental
operating costs: after about one year of operation, the enterprise will
provide documentation confirming the estimate of annual incremental
operating costs on which the subgrant approval was based. DOE can
then disburse the subgrant amount allocated for operating costs in one
or several tranches up to the ceiling established in the subgrant
agreement. Under certain circumstances, typically for large projects
(over US$0.5 million) with a large share (proposed minimum
threshold: over 50%) of grant funding for operating costs (as opposed
to investment costs), the appraisal report would specify a disbursement
plan for the operating costs in two or more tranches. Release of the
tranches would typically be based on proof of actual operating costs
and receipt of a progress report satisfactory to CETEC and the DOE.
n.  Progress reports: Subproject proponents will be responsible for
preparing progress reports and submitting them to CETEC (with copy
to DOE). As a minimum, the subproject proponent would submit one
subproject progress report at the time when the proposed investment
activities have been implemented and the new installations are
operating. In cases where multiple disbursement tranches have been
agreed, the subproject proponent would submit one progress report
prior to each tranche. The final subproject progress report has to be
acceptable to DOE and the Bank.
o. Subproject Supervision: CETEC will have prime responsibility for
supervising implementation of subprojects until its completion. Even
after the subgrant has been fully disbursed, CETEC will review and
approve the progress reports submitted by the subproject proponents
and verify them. CETEC's responsibility for subproject supervision
ends after full disbursement and the approval of the final subproject
progress report acceptable to DOE and the Bank.
p. Subproject Monitoring: DOE will supervise the progress of MP
funded subprojects and CETEC's operations in fulfillment of its
overall responsibility for the implementation of the MP ODS phase-out
Country Program.
q. Auditing and Reporting: The DOE would submit semi-annual progress
reports to the Bank and to EPU to be prepared by CETEC. DOE will
also provide for the preparation of an annual audit report by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. Finally, DOE will submit
monthly financial statements on the Special Account to the Bank with
copy to EPU and CETEC.



- 19 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA: MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
ANNEX IV: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
A. Procurement
1.         Procurement of goods, works and services under this project will be undertaken
by the subproject proponent in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines (1995).
Consultants will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
For International Competitive Bidding (ICB), documents will be prepared following the Bank
Standard Bidding Documents, and domestic preference for goods manufactured in Malaysia
will apply according to procurement guidelines of the Bank.
2.        The CETEC will satisfy itself that the goods, works, and services to be
purchased are for the investment subprojects and are reasonably priced, by ensuring that the
grant recipient has followed efficient and economic procurement practices in accordance with
those of the minimum thresholds agreed (see following list):
(a)  For Procurement the following procedures would apply:
Goods and Works
Contracts over US$2 million equivalent (excluding proprietary packages) would
be procured under ICB procedures. For contracts below the ICB threshold,
procurement would follow the procurement practices of private industry in
Malaysia which the Bank has examined and found acceptable, consisting at a
minimum of the following:
(i)  contracts between US$200,000 and US$2 million equivalent would be
procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at
least three qualified suppliers from at least two countries; and
(ii) contracts below US$200,000 would be procured on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers.
Goods which are (a) of a proprietary nature, (b) must be purchased from the
original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, or (c) must be
procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a performance guarantee,
may be provided directly from the supplier in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank (Direct Contracting).



- 20 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
Consultants
Contracting of Consultants shall be engaged on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as
Executing Agency" (August 1981).
b) Prior Review
Prior review is required with respect to each contract:
(i) over US$2 million;
(ii) for hiring of individual consultants, if the contract price exceeds
US$50,000, and for hiring of consulting firms, if the contract price
exceeds US$100,000.
(iii) for goods procured under Direct Contracting. The appraisal report would
include the name of the supplier, the type, specifications and estimated cost
of the goods and the justification for procuring such goods through Direct
Contracting. Review of the appraisal report by the Bank would be
considered "prior review" in these cases.
B. Disbursement
3.        Project funds are expected to be fully disbursed by 1998 according to the
disbursement schedule in Schedule B. Closing date for the project is June 30, 1999. A
Special Account totaling US$1,500,000 in the name of DOE would be opened in the Central
Bank to facilitate disbursements. This account should be used for all local and foreign
expenditures. However, larger expenditures, exceeding 20% of the special account, can be
submitted by DOE to the Bank for direct payment to the subproject or its supplier. The
following disbursement procedures will apply:
(i) Between Bank and the Government of Malaysia
Disbursement will follow the procedures given in the Disbursement
Handbook published by the Bank in 1992, and in the Disbursement Letter
which will be issued after the Grant has been signed. Once the Grant
Agreement has been signed and has become effective, and after receipt of
an initial withdrawal application from DOE, the Bank will make an initial
deposits of up to US$1.5 million into the Special Account. DOE will be
responsible for submitting the applications for withdrawal and
replenishment to the Bank. Replenishment applications would be submitted
by DOE on a monthly basis or whenever the withdrawn amount exceeded
20% whichever occurred first. Disbursements would be made against



- 21 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts for (a) goods and works
valued below US$2 million equivalent, (b) consulting firms valued below
US$100,000 equivalent, and (c) individual consultants valued below
US$50,000 equivalent. All other disbursements will be made against full
documentation. Supporting documents for SOEs including contracts,
procurement documentation, and evidence of payment should be kept in a
central location for examination by independent auditors and Bank staff
during supervision missions. For larger disbursements exceeding 20% of
the Special Account, DOE can submit disbursement requests directly to
the Bank for payment to the subproject or a supplier.
(ii) Between Government of Malaysia and Subproject
Subproject proponents would submit requests for payments under this
project to CETEC. CETEC will verify the eligibility and the amount of the
requested payment and prepare a notification to DOE endorsing the release
of funds to the subproject. DOE will disburse from the Special Account
directly to the subproject (in case of reimbursement of actual expenses
incurred by the subproject) or to a supplier (in case of submission of an
invoice which has not yet been paid for by the subproject).
Up to US$2 million per contract, the Government will disburse to the
subproject proponent for eligible expenses without prior review by the
Bank (see procurement guidelines).
Disbursement of Operating Costs: Under certain circumstances, typically
for large projects (over US$0.5 million) with a large share (proposed
minimum threshold: over 50%) of grant funding for operating costs (as
opposed to investment costs), the appraisal report would specify a
disbursement plan for the operating costs in two or more tranches. Release
of the tranches would typically be based on proof of actual operating costs
and receipt of a progress report satisfactory to CETEC and the DOE. (See
also Annex III, para m.)
(iii) Interest Earnings on Special Account
Interest income earned on the outstanding balance of the Special Account
would be used by DOE for purposes, such as Montreal Protocol related
training and participation in international conferences to update DOE's
technical know how.



- 22 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5
MALAYSIA: MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE-OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
ANNEX V: GUIDELINES FOR SUBPROJECT ELIGIBILITY, GRANT FUNDING,
AND PREPARATION OF APPRAISAL REPORTS
The following is a summary of guidelines for subproject eligibility, grant funding and
appraisal reports of subprojects requesting funding from the Ozone Trust Fund; these
guidelines are derived from Guidelines issued by the Multilateral Fund Executive Committee
and by the Bank and are subject to changes from time to time.
A. Subproject Eligibility
1.        Subprojects should be on priority list included in the Country Program or should
be identified by DOE as essential to achieve the objectives of ODS phase-out in Malaysia.
Subprojects should have direct and demonstrable results in reducing ODS consumption in the
country. They should be cost effective and be based on environmentally sound technologies
to substitute for or recycle ODS.
2.        Successful implementation of subprojects may sometimes depend directly on
appropriate policies and regulations. In these cases, these policies should be addressed in the
appraisal report for consideration by the MFEC. In general, however, overall economic and
industrial policy reforms are not to be addressed in the context of subprojects but in the ODS
Country Program as approved by the MFEC.
B. Guidelines for Subgrant Funding
3.        OTF funding is provided as a grant to the subproject proponent implementing the
subproject. The grant is calculated in economic terms for the "incremental costs", as
elaborated below, based on the guidelines defined by MFEC and the Bank's interpretation of
incremental costs.
4.        Determination of Incremental Costs
(a)  Definition. Incremental costs are defined as the net present value of incremental
economic subproject costs (investment capital plus operating costs net of
operating benefits) discounted at the economic cost of capital in the country
(10% will be used in Malaysia) in constant economic prices over the economic
life of the subproject. When appropriate, risks associated with technology,
market and financing of undertaking the subproject should be taken into
consideration.



- 23 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 5
(b)  Co-financing. In cases where the subproject proponent has to put up its own
resources (from capital infusion or commercial loans) to co-finance part of the
subproject costs, the necessity for providing sufficient financial incentive to
undertake the subproject should be considered, i.e. subproject proponent should
obtain an acceptable return on its own capital. In many cases subproject
proponents will view ODS phase-out investments as necessary business costs and
may not require financial incentives in addition to a grant for incremental costs.
Under exceptional cases, and upon approval by the MFEC on a case-to-case
basis, this grant amount would be determined in such a way that the Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) on the risk capital is 10% (real terms).
(c)  Ownership. A Subproject is eligible for funding in direct proportion to the
percentage of local ownership of the enterprise.
(d)  Exports to Non-Article 5 Countries. Enterprises which export to non-article 5
countries are eligible for funding based on the percent of total production that
they export. That is:
o    where exports to non-article 5 countries are equal to or less than
10% of total production, the total incremental costs are eligible;
o    where exports to non-article 5 countries exceed 10% of production
but do not exceed 70%, the eligible incremental costs will be
reduced equivalent to the percentage of total production represented
by such exports less 10%;
o    where exports to non-article 5 countries exceed 70% of production,
the project is not eligible.
(e)  Operating Costs and Savings. Under MFEC guidelines, incremental recurring
costs net of operational savings are generally eligible for grant funding only up
to four (4) years of project operation. MFEC imposes further restrictions on
certain subsectors, such as solvent use and refrigeration.
(f)   Duties and Taxes. Import duties and other direct taxes are not eligible for grant
funding. The recipient Government is being encouraged to agree on duty
exemption for imports under this project.



- 24 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 5
C. Subproject Priority and Unit Abatement Costs
5.        Priority is given to subprojects with cost effective technology, low unit
abatement costs, and short period of time to achieve actual ODS phase-out. Relative cost
effectiveness is measured as "unit abatement cost", a comparative index defined as follows:
A = C(F) + (OC-OS)
W
Where:
A  =    Unit abatement cost, $/kg ODP saved/year (at full operation)
C  =    Incremental capital cost, including all initial one time costs such as
technology, training
F =    Capital recovery factor; the annualized capital cost charges, discounted at a
standard discount rate of 10% per year, over the economic life of the project.
OC =   Annual Operating Costs at full operation
OS =   Annual Operating benefits at full operation
W  =   Quantity of ODS saved annually expressed as ODP units
6.        The purpose of unit abatement cost calculation is to give a relative ranking of
projects across countries and within same sector. Lower unit abatement costs correspond to
higher priority in terms of cost effectiveness. The unit abatement cost is calculated at
standard discount rates to facilitate cross country comparisons.
D. Elements of the Subproject Appraisal
CETEC would prepare appraisal reports along the following guidelines in a format acceptable
to the Bank, including as a minimum the following elements:
7.        Subproject scope. Including a full description of the proposed technology and
the source of technology supply. In selected cases, description should refer to technical
cooperation agreements between the subproject proponent and an international technology
supplier. Where necessary, the description should distinguish between components relating to
ODS phase-out directly and other components, such as expansion of output or product
upgrading which are not eligible for OTF grant funding.
8.        Schedule and quantity of ODS reduction. (Expressed as ODS and ODP), which
will be phased out as a direct result of the subproject, on annual and total basis.
9.        Subproject costs. Divided into (a) components relating to ODS phase-out and (b)
other components. Costs should be broken down into investment and operating costs, costs
eligible for OTF funding, foreign exchange and local costs, and expenditures already
incurred for which retroactive financing will be requested.



- 25 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 5
10.       Review of technical feasibility of the subproject. To determine the soundness of
the technical proposal, based on local and international experience.
11.       Financial analysis of enterprise. To determine the soundness of the enterprise by
using a set of minimum financial indicators which reflect the enterprise's financial viability
and its ability to implement the subproject. The indicators should be determined based on
local conditions and should be consistent with commercial practice in the country.
12.       Financing arrangements. In case of subprojects, where the OTF grant covers
only part of the total project costs the following should be included: description of sources,
terms and conditions, divided into (a) incremental costs related to ODS phase-out to be
financed as an OTF grant, (b) amount to be provided by enterprise from its own resources;
and (c) local and/or foreign loans to be financed through commercial loans from local and/or
foreign institutions (at commercial interest rates). A confirmed financing plan should be
submitted with the appraisal report.
13.       Disbursement Plan. The amount and estimated schedule of disbursements,
including, where applicable, the conditions for disbursement under multiple tranches, e.g.
completion of certain measures and submission of satisfactory progress reports.
14.       Subproject implementation arrangements. Description of management,
engineering and technology acquisition, procurement, installation, operation, marketing,
disassembling of phased out ODS equipment (to ensure that it cannot be reused) and
schedule for all implementation steps.
15.       Environmental aspects. Description of environmentally critical aspects of the
subproject and measures to address the environmental risks. Furthermore, a certification that
the subproject proponent has complied with local environmental regulations has to be
attached to the appraisal report.
16.       Reporting requirements. Description of the scope, the number and the timing of
progress reports and other information which the subproject proponent has to submit to
CETEC. As a minimum, the subproject proponent would submit one subproject progress
report at the time when the proposed investment activities have been implemented and the
new installations are operating. In cases where multiple disbursement tranches have been
agreed upon, the subproject would submit one progress report prior to each tranche.



- 26 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 5
17.       Subgrant Agreement. Attached to the appraisal report, DOE would submit a
draft contract between DOE and the subproject proponent, based on a model agreement
attached to the OPGs. The subgrant agreement spells out the responsibilities of the subproject
proponent and sanctions in case of non-compliance.
NChamlou/bd
m:\chamlou\mod627.wpf









