Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTG GRANT NUMBER 22006 MA
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND
GRANT AGREEMENT
(Montreal Protocol Ozone Depleting
Substances Phase Out Investment Project)
Between 
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund
Dated October 23, 1995
GRANT NUMBER 22006 MA
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 23, 1995, between MALAYSIA (the "Recipient") and the 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, acting as Trustee of grant 
funds provided by Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the 
Ozone Layer into the Ozone Projects Trust Fund ("OTF") (the "Trustee").22
WHEREAS: (A) The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
"Bank"), pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors 
of the Bank (the "Resolution"), established a Facility, including the OTF, to assist 
in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound 
and sustainable economic development, and whereas following the restructuring of the 
Global Environmental Facility (the GEF) such arrangements are continued in place on 
the basis set forth in Resolutions Nos. 94-2 and 94-3 of the Executive Directors dated 
May 24, 1994;
WHEREAS: (B) The Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the 
Ozone Layer to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer have 
established the Multilateral Fund (the "Fund") for the Implementation of the Montreal 
Protocol to operate under the authority of the said Parties to provide the financing 
of agreed incremental costs to enable the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of 
Article 5 of the Protocol to comply with control measures provided for in the 
Protocol;
Page  2
WHEREAS: (C) The Executive Committee of the Fund (the "Executive Committee") and 
the Bank have entered into an agreement effective on July 9, 1991, pursuant to which 
the Executive Committee has agreed to provide funds into the OTF to be administered by 
the Bank as Trustee in accordance with the provisions of the said agreement and the 
Resolution;
WHEREAS: (D) The Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
assistance from the resources of the OTT in the financing of the Project, and the 
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions 
of the Resolution; and
WHEREAS: (E) The Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend a grant (the "OTF Grant") to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the "General Conditions") 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i) Article 
I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii) Section 3.01;
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v) Article 
V;
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01(b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix) 
Sections 10.01,10.03 and 10.04;
(x) 
Article XI; and
(xi) 
Sections 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
The tern "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity; 
(ii)
The term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions,
means the Recipient; 
(iii)
The term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
The term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the OTF Grant; and
(v)
The term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General
Page  3
Conditions, means the OTF Grant Account; and
(vi)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: 
(a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which 
is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such territories; or
(b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means any private or public sector entity which shall carry 
out a Sub-project;
(b) 
"Country Program" means the Recipient's Country Program for the Phase Out 
of Ozone-Depleting Substances, as approved by the Executive Committee in February 
1992;
(c)
"DOE" means the Department of Environment of the Recipient;
(d) 
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Recipient's fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year;
(e) 
"CETEC" means the Centre for Environmental Technologies, a 
non-governmental organization established and operating under the Memorandum and 
Articles of Association of CETEC dated October 15,1992;
(f)
"MOA" means the Memorandum of Agreement to be entered into between DOE 
and CETEC referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(g)
"EPU" means Economic Planning Unit within the Office of the Prime 
Minister of the Recipient;
(h)
"ODS" means ozone depleting substances;
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
"Sub-grant" means a grant to be provided under a Sub-grant Agreement to 
finance a Sub-project;
(k)
"Sub-grant Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.05 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(l) 
"Sub-project" means a project, selected and prepared in accordance with 
the Operating Policy Guidelines (as such term is defined in Sub-paragraph (m) herein 
be low), and approved by the Trustee or the Executive Committee, as the case may be, 
consisting of investments and other activities eligible under the Protocol which 
result in reduction of ODS use or in the substitution of non-ozone depleting 
technologies for ozone depleting technologies; and
(m) 
"Operating Policy Guidelines" and "OPG" means the guidelines, submitted 
to the Trustee by the Recipient for the preparation and implementation of Sub-projects 
to phase out depleting substances financed under the OTF of Montreal Protocol, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The OTF Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
Page  4
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the OTF Grant in an 
amount in various currencies not to exceed the equivalent of twenty million dollars 
($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the OTF Grant may be withdrawn from the OTF 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant.
(b) The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Trustee. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. DOE is hereby designated as representative of the Recipient for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
Section 2.05. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement, except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purposes of the 
Project from the Executive Committee referred to in WHEREAS Clause (C) of the Preamble 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall catty 
out the Project through DOE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, and financial practices and with 
due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the OTT Grant, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of the implementation of the Project, the 
Recipient shall:
(a)
make the proceeds of the OTF Grant available to DOE and promptly 
thereafter, cause ODE to make the appropriate proceeds of the OTF Grant available to 
each Beneficiary to carry out its respective Sub-project, under a Sub-grant Agreement, 
which shall have been approved by the Trustee, to be entered into between DOE and each 
Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 of, and Schedule 4 to, 
this Agreement; and 
(b)
cause DOE to enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with CETEC appointing 
CETEC as the implementing agent for the Project, which agreement shall have been 
approved by the Trustee and be in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, 
Operating Policy Guidelines, satisfactory to the Trustee, setting forth the terms and 
conditions and related procedures for the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of 
such-projects and the contracting, processing, financing and monitoring the carrying 
out of Sub-projects, which Guidelines shall include, inter alia, a model Sub-grant 
Agreement satisfactory to the Trustee.
(b)
When submitting a Sub-project to the Trustee for approval of the Trustee 
or the Executive Committee (as the case may be, pursuant to Sub-paragraphs 2 (b) and 
(c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement), the Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee an 
application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, containing inter alia:
(i)
an appraisal of the Sub-project, in accordance with the provisions 
Page  5
of OPG and description of the expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant.
(ii)
a certification issued by DOE confirming that the proposed 
Sub-project complies with the environmental regulations of the 
Recipient.
(iii)
a draft sub-grant Agreement; and
(iv)
such other information as the Trustee or the Executive Committee 
shall reasonably request in respect of such Sub-project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Recipient shall cause DOE to enter into a Sub-grant 
Agreement with each Beneficiary, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Trustee, 
including those set forth in schedule 4 to this Agreement, providing for the transfer, 
on a grant basis, of the proceeds of the OTF Grant allocated to such Beneficiary’s 
Sub-project and the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out such Sub-project. 
(b)
The Recipient shall cause DOE to exercise its rights under the Sub-grant 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient, DOE and the 
Trustee and to accomplish the purposes of the OTF Grant, and, except as the Trustee 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not permit DOE to assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the Sub-grant Agreement or any part thereof.
Section 3.06. For each Sub-project approved by the Trustee in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement, CETEC shall be entitled to an agency fee in an 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of three percent (3%) of the amounts disbursed 
under each Sub-grant Agreement, such fee to be paid out of the proceeds of the OTF 
Grant as follows:
(a)
one percent (1 %) of the Sub-grant amount after approval of the 
Sub-project by the Trustee; and
(b)
the remaining two percent (2%), pro-rata, on the dates of disbursement of 
the Sub-grant proceeds under the Sub-grant Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Recipient shall, during the execution of the Project, maintain 
DOE's Montreal Protocol Desk, responsible for the overall management and coordination 
of the implementation of the Project, with qualified staff in adequate numbers and 
with all necessary resources.
Section 3.08. Except as the Recipient shall otherwise agree, the Recipient and 
DOE shall, carry out annual reviews, jointly with the Trustee, to monitor progress in 
Project implementation, including the need for adjustments to the MOA, the OPG, and 
the model Sub-grant Agreement, when such amendments shall be deemed to be necessary to 
achieve Project objectives. The first of such annual reviews shall be carried out by 
not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments, agencies or entities of the Recipient 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and 
(ii)
cause each Beneficiary to maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures of such Beneficiary in 
respect of its Sub-project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
Page  6
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
details as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Trustee has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the OTF Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely:
(a)
Either the Memorandum or Articles of Association of CETEC shall have been 
amended, suspended or abrogated aimed at the dissolution or disestablishment of CETEC, 
or for the suspension of its operations;
(b)
The Recipient, or any other authority, shall have taken any action, 
including but without limitation the enactment or issuance of legislation or 
regulations, which, in the opinion of the Trustee, may adversely affect, prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project, or any part thereof; or
(c)
DOE or CETEC shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the MOA.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement.
(a)
the MOA, satisfactory to the Trustee, shall have been duly executed by, 
and is legally binding upon DOE and CETEC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the Operating Policies Guidelines, including a standard sub-grant 
Agreement satisfactory to the Trustee, shall have been issued pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.04(a) of this Agreement and have been approved by the 
Recipient.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until parties to this 
Page  7
Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient: Address
7.01. The Director General of the Economic Planning Unit of the Prime Minister’s 
Office of the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Director General
Economic Planning Unit
Prime Minister’s Department
Jalan Dato’Onn
50592 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Cable address
Telex
ECONOMICS
EPU MA 30098
Kuala Lumpur
For the Trustee :
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688(TRT)
Washington
248423(RCA)
 64145(WUI)
 82987(FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
MALAYSIA
By /s/ Dato’ Ali Abul Hassan b. Sulaiman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 as Trustee of the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Page  8
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
  Amount of the
OTT Grant Allocated
   % of
  (Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, works and
   19,417,000
100% of amounts
services under
disbursed
Sub-grants
(2)
CETEC's fee
      583,000
Amount due pur--
suant to Section
3.06 of this 
Agreement
TOTAL
   20,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
Prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), 
may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after August 29, 1989;
(b)
Under a Sub-project estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, 
unless the Executive Committee has approved such Sub-project;
(c)
Under a Sub-project estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$500,000, unless the Trustee has approved such Sub-project;
(d)
Under any Sub-project unless the respective Sub-grant Agreement has been 
entered into between the parties thereto; and
(e)
For import tariffs, duties, value-added taxes, or other transfer taxes or 
fees.
3.
If the Trustee shall have determined that any payment made from the OTF Grant 
Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the 
Trustee, for deposit into the OTF Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used 
or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contract for.
(a)
goods and works not exceeding two million dollars ($2,000,000);
(b)
the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000; 
and
(c)
the employment of individual consultants, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The overall objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in carrying out 
Page  9
its Country Program aimed at phasing-out the use of ozone depleting substances within 
its territory through the implementation of cost-effective priority investments.
The Project consists of the following part, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Provision of Sub-grants for the carrying out of specific Sub-projects to reduce 
consumption of ozone depleting substances. 
****************************
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
In the procurement of goods under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, the provisions of paragraph 2.54 of the 
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory 
of the Recipient.
Part C:
Other Procurement  Procedures
1.
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or less per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; provided, 
however, that goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are (a) of a proprietary nature, (b) must be purchased from the 
original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, or, (c) must be procured 
from a particular supplier as a condition of a performance guarantee, may, with the 
Trustee's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the provisions set forth in Part C.2 of this Schedule (Direct Contracting), the 
Recipient shall obtain the prior approval of the Trustee. For this purpose the 
Recipient shall, either as part of the application set forth in Section 3.04 (b) of 
this Agreement or prior to the entering into the respective contract, furnish to the 
Page  10
Trustee the name of the supplier, the type, specifications and estimated cost of the 
goods and the justification for procuring such goods through Direct Contracting.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II :
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts, awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to:
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Sub-grants
Sub-grants shall be provided on terms whereby the Recipient shall obtain, 
through the Sub-grant Agreements, rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Trustee and the Recipient, including but without limitation, the right to:
(a)
Require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
managerial, environmental and ecological standards;
(b)
Require that:
(i)
The goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the OTF Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(ii)
Such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively for the 
purposes and in furtherance of the objectives of the Project;
(c)
Require the Beneficiary to comply with the obligations set forth in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(d)
Inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Trustee, if the 
Trustee shall so request, the goods and plants included in the Sub-project, the 
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
Require that:
(i)
The Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practices; and
(ii)
Without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall 
cover the hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and 
Page  11
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant to 
the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be 
made payable in a currency freely useable by the Beneficiary to 
replace or repair such goods.
(f)
Obtain all such information as the Trustee shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits derived from the Sub-project;
(g)
Obtain upon demand the refund of any part of the proceeds of the OTF 
.Grant which, in the opinion of the Recipient or the Trustee, has been misused by the 
Beneficiary; and
(h)
Suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under the Sub-grant Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of the MOA
The MOA shall include the following terms and conditions, subject to such 
modifications thereto as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to 
time to achieve the objectives of the Project:
A.
DOE shall require CETEC to undertake the following:
1.
appraise all identified proposed Sub-projects after endorsement by DOE based on 
the Protocol and in accordance with the provisions of the OPG;
2.
prepare and submit all proposed Sub-project appraisal summaries and reports to 
DOE for endorsement and submission to the Trustee for technical review and approval by 
the Executive Committee;
3.
ensure that each proposed Sub-project complies with the Environmental Quality 
Act 1974 of the Recipient. A certification to that effect, to be issued by DOE, would 
be attached to the appraisal report;
4.
ensure that each Sub-project Beneficiary provides a financing plan for the 
uncovered balance of the total project cost in the event that the OTF Grant does not 
fully cover such cost;
5.
supervise implementation of each Sub-project until its completion, and review 
and approve the Sub-project progress reports. CETEC's responsibility for Sub-project 
supervision shall end after full disbursement and approval of the final Sub-project 
progress report acceptable to DOE and the Trustee;
6.
prepare semi-annual progress reports for DOE to submit such reports to the 
Trustee and EPU;
7.
ensure that Sub-projects follow the procurement procedures set out in Schedule 3 
of the Grant Agreement;
8.
verify the eligibility and the amount of the requested payment submitted by each 
Sub-project Beneficiary and prepare a notification to DOE endorsing the release of 
funds to the Sub-project Beneficiary;
9.
prepare and provide applications to DOE for submission to the Trustee for the 
disbursement of funds directly to the Sub-projects where the amount of disbursement 
exceeds the threshold stipulated in the OPG;
10.
provide at a minimum the following personnel
(a)
a Project Manager dedicated primarily to the management of the Project 
and a management staff member who shall act as alternate in the absence of the said 
manager;
(b)
a Project Officer to assist the Project Manager;
(c)
a Professional Engineer with relevant industry experience or local 
engineering consultant with similar and relevant background and experience on an ‘as 
need’ basis;
Page  12
(d)
a qualified Accountant with experience in financial analysis; and
(e)
maintain a list of qualified experts in the field of ODS from which 
ad-hoc reference and expertise may be sought from time to time as situation requires.
11.
inform DOE of enterprises which have expressed interest to participate in the 
Project.
B.
DOE shall undertake the following:
1.
determine the eligibility of proposed Sub-projects for appraisal by CETEC;
2.
review each proposed Sub-project following CETEC appraisal to ensure that only 
cost-effective and environmentally-safe technologies will be applied in accordance 
with the laws and regulations of the Recipient and that all Sub-projects conform to 
the priorities of the Country Program;
3.
review and endorse proposed Sub-project appraisal summaries and reports 
submitted by CETEC prior to submission to the Trustee for technical review and 
approval by the MFEC;
4.
open the Special Account in its own name in the Central Bank of Malaysia for the 
Project and draw funds from the Special Account for payments directly to the 
Sub-projects;
5.
submit applications prepared by CETEC for replenishment of the Special Account 
to the Trustee, including applications for direct disbursement to Sub-project 
Beneficiaries for amounts exceeding the threshold stipulated in the OPG;
6.
supervise the progress of Sub-projects and CETEC's operations in fulfillment of 
its overall responsibility as implementing agency on behalf of the Recipient; and
7.
submit semi-annual progress reports prepared by CETEC and an annual audit report 
prepared by an independent auditor regarding the grant fund utilization to the 
Trustee, with a copy to EPU.
C.
A fee shall be paid to CETEC in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.06 
of the Grant Agreement.
D.
1.
DOE and CETEC shall:
(a)
closely coordinate with and/or consult each other in the performance of 
their respective responsibilities set forth in the MOA; and
(b)
formulate joint circulars and/or other issuances, when and if necessary, 
for the effective implementation of the Project.
2.
In case of any conflict or disagreement between DOE and CETEC relating to 
matters affecting the implementation of the Project or the performance of their 
respective responsibilities, such parties shall exert their best efforts to resolve 
such conflict or disagreement between themselves before referring such conflict or 
disagreement to EPU for decision which shall be binding on such parties.
3.
The MOA shall take effect upon signing by DOE and CETEC and shall remain valid 
and binding up to the year 1999, unless otherwise terminated by mutual consent of the 
parties or by any of the parties by serving a 60 calendar day notice to the other 
parties for breach of any of the terms of the MOA. A copy of the notification of 
termination of the MOA shall be sent to the Trustee promptly.
4.
The MOA shall be reviewed at least once a year by DOE and CETEC to assess the 
relevance of any of its provisions and, with the concurrence of the Trustee, make such 
amendments thereto as deemed necessary in order to achieve the objectives of the 
Project.
5.
Interest and other earnings on deposits in the Special Account shall accrue to 
the Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
Page  13
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3. After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such  request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b) 
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from 
the Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Trustee such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Trustee shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee within the 
period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
Page  14
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account:
(i) 
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Trustee, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee:
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; 
or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall 
so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the 
Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
