Documentof olf                    m
The World Bank                  FILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repoet No. P-28b9a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMTIENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOMMENDATION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND DEVELOPMENT CRE
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
November 26, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pkformance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =        CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                     CFAF 210
CFAF 1 million    =        US$4,762.
ABBREVIATIONS
BCEAO     -    Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BNDS      -    Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
CDEAO     -    Communaute Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CEAO      -    Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CER       -    Centre d'Expansion Rurale
CPSP      -    Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des Prix
OMVS      -    Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal
ONCAD     -    Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au
Developpement
SODEFITEX -    Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
SODEVA    -    Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
SOMIVAC   -    Societe pour la Mise en Valeur de la Casamance
SONACOS   -    Societe Nationale pour la Commercialisation des
Oleagineux du Senegal
SONED     -    Societe Nationale d'Etudes de Developpement
UMOA      -    Union Monetaire des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
FISCAL YEAR
July I   -   June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
STRJCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page& No.
Loan/Credit Summary... ,......................... ....... ............    i
INTROPUCTION ...o......................    *..e....*.O.... *.............    1
PART I:   DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES AND THEIR IMPACT ON SENEGAL'S
ECONOMIC POSITION . .................. . ....... . .......         2
A.  Resource Base ..................................               2
-  Agriculture ........ ........................       .       2
-  Other Sectors ...........  i .............                  3
- Social Factors . .                 ...... .   4
B.  The Government's Development Strategies:  1960-1978 ..    5
-  Agricultural Policies         .     . ...  ... ......      5
-  Industrial Policies  .............................          9
- Other Aspects of Management of the Public
Enterprise Sector ............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   11
C.  Macroeconomic Developments and the 1978-1980 Crisis ..   12
-  Overall Perspective ........................,... 13
-  The 1978-1980 Crisis    ..................        ......  14
-  Fiscal Imbalances  .................. .............. . o..   15
-  Monetary Aspects .....*.....   .....0............... 16
- The Balance of Payments ..                                  17
Conclusion:  The Need for Change .19
PART II:  THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM       .     ... .. .............. *....   20
A. Objectives of the Program                 ..  20
-  Fiscal. and Monetary Policies .. ....................   21
-  Prices and Incentives .   . ...............       ... .    22
-  The Investment Program ..............o.......24
-  Reforms in the Parapublic Sector    .        .             26
B. Evaluation of the Program                  ..                  29
C.  Macroeconomic Projections  -......................            30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Cunte.sa (Gncttd,
Page No.
PART III: THE STRUCTURAL  D,JSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT             .     .    ...   34
-  Hjstory                             . . . 0   .        4...  ........   34
-  CoopeZation '-rith IAF ......... ..........................   35
-    STABiEX.X  .............. 4             ...o.   .  ..o  4  Geeo,   * e. .   o 36
-  Cooperation with France                         4 ...-..........4...........     36
-  Loan/Credit Obiectives  .................  ..........,    37
-  The Loan/Credit ............           ..............  .....    38
-  Procuirement and Disbursement . 5 *                            38
-    Monitoring   0..-  r. . *   n  0 4, . .........  .    . 4  * 4   .   *  *  40
-  Public Finrarnces a0- ...- ..................                  40
-  Investment Program .e........................ . . ..           40
-  Prices and In2ertives ............... **.  *  *...     * *-.*   42
-  Institutional Reforms  -.s e.        . e.... o   ...........    42
-  Risks and Uncartainties *...4.0       .       *.............   42
PART IV:  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL ........         .......          43
PART V:   LEGAL INSTRUMENTS. AND AUTHORITY ............................*  45
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION ..... r   ... . c 0  *. * 44 * 4 4.    e.*.          46
ANNEXES
Annex I    Country and Economic Data
Annex II   Status of Bank Group Operations in Senegal
Annex III  Supplementary Loan/Credit Data Sheet
Annex IV   Prime Minister's Letter and Policy Statement
Annex V    Other Project Data:
Appendix I - Timetable for key activities
Appendix 2 - Description of Agricultural Agencies
Annex VI   IMF Relatiors with Senegal



- i -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
LOAN/CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Senegal.
Loan Amount:         US$30 million equivalent.
Loan Terms:          Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
9.25 percent interest per annum.
Credit Amount:       SDR 22.9 million (US$30 million equivalent).
Credit Terms:        Standard.
Loan/Credit
Description:         The proposed Loan/Credit would make available about
US$60 million equivalent to the Senegalese Government
during the first part of its medium-term economic
stabilization and rehabilitation program, as outlined in a
Policy Statement attached to a Letter from the Prime
Minister to the President of the Bank and the Association.
Counterpart funds would be used principally in the agri-
cultural sector for reorganization of the regional rural
development agencies. About US$1.0 million equivalent
would be used for consultant studies.
Estimated
Disbursements:       The Loan/Credit proceeds to finance eligible imports would
be disbursed in two tranches, US$40 million equivalent
soon after effectiveness, and the remaining US$20 million
equivalent after a performance review to be held before
March 31, 1981.
Procurement
Arrangements:        Only goods purchased from Bank Group member countries
and others eligible under the Guidelines would be financed
out of the proceeds of the proposed Loan/Credit. Purchases
would be on the basis of normal commercial practices, except
that public sector contracts of over US$5 million would be
procured by international competitive bidding. Imports
of petroleum, foodstuffs, armaments and luxury consumer
goods would not be eligible for financing. A special
account of US$10 million would be established with the
Central Bank to finance eligible imports pending pro-
cessing of individual disbursement requests.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
LOAN AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
l.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan for the equivalent of US$30 million, and a proposed
Structural Adjustment Development Credit for the equivalent of 22.9 million
SDR (US$30 million) to the Republic of Senegal. The Loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per annum;
the Development Credit would be on standard IDA terms (the blend would have a
grant element of 43 percent). The proposed operation would support an
ongoing government program designed to improve overall productivity of the
Senegalese economy, to reactivate the agricultural sector, to stimulate
private investment in industry and promote exports, and to help the economy
adjust to the consequences of the 1979-80 crop failure and the recent adverse
trends in world market prices.
INTRODUCTION
2.        A report entitled "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980.
The following paragraphs reflect the conclusions of this report and of the
economic work done in preparation of this proposed structural adjustment
lending operation. Updated country and economic data appear in Annex I.
3.        With a per capita GNP estimated at US$429 in 1979, Senegal is not
among the group of very poor countries classified by the United Nations as
"least developed". However, the profile of the Senegalese economy over
the past 20 years has been one of stagnating per capita income, and growth of
GDP has averaged only about 2.5 percent annually, slightly less than estimated
population growth.
4.        Some of the main causes of the poor macroeconomic performance
have been Senegal's limited economic potential, and, more importantly,
policies which emphasized government control of key economic activities,
without, however, the support of an efficient public enterprise sector.
These issues will be developed in Part I of the present report. That chapter
will also describe the severe external influences--a protracted drought
period,   a sharp drop in export revenues, and the 1979 increase in oil
prices--which further weakened Senegal's already vulnerable economy and
resulted in a major public finance and balance-of-payments crisis, including
an unsustainable current account deficit equivalent to about 16 percent of GDP
in 1980.
5.       The 1979-80 economic and financial crisis led the Government to
seriously rethink its development strategy, and to prepare a comprehensive
short- and medium-term program for rehabilitation of the economy, which was



- 2 -
approved by the National Assembly at the end of 1979. The program (des-
cribed in Part II of this report) includes a well worked-out plan of struc-
tural reform aimed at reorganizing institutions in the agricultural sector,
stimulating private initiative in the industrial sector, adjusting price
incentives in favor of exports, and improving the overall productivity of
investments. The program is planned for implementation over five years, and
is expected to establish a sound basis for long-term development of Senegal's
economy.
6.       Part III of the report will discuss the kinds of assistance which
the Bank Group, the IMF and other aid agencies are planning to help Senegal
execute its current rehabilitation program. In addition to the proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit, the Bank Group intends to further
support the adjustment process with subsequent similar operations; these
would be based on a periodic review of the effects of actions taken by
Government during the initial stages of its rehabilitation program, an
assessment of what has to be done during the next phase, and on agreements
reached between the Government and the Bank Group on how best to achieve
mutually determined objectives.
PART I - DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES AND THEIR IMPACT
ON SENEGAL'S ECONOMIC POSITION
A.   Resource Base
7.        Senegal is well known for the prestige of its leaders, but it is at
the same time a poor Sahelian country with modest growth potential. Ecological
conditions are generally unfavorable, industrial prospects are uncertain, and
the country's population is young and growing fast, with all the concomitant
implications of demand for social services from the public and private sectors.
Agriculture
8.        Despite the attractiveness of the capital city, Dakar, and the
rapid growth of all urban centers, Senegal remains a basically rural economy.
More than two-thirds of the population live in rural areas, and, in a normal
year, agricultural exports account for more than half of total export earnings.
The direct contribution of agriculture is only about 25 to 30 percent of GDP,
but the achievements of most other sectors depend heavily on the vagaries
of agricultural activity.
9.        Unfortunately, several factors make the Senegalese agricultural
sector vulnerable: poor soils, a dry climate, erratic rainfall, and mediocre
world market prospects for groundnuts, the main agricultural export. Droughts
have occurred during six of the last twelve years, and preliminary estimates
for the 1980-81 season indicate that agricultural output will be low. The
decline in world market prices for groundnuts (from US$523 in 1974 to US$431
in 1979, in constant 1977 prices) is due to improvements in processing tech-
niques which have increased competition from other sources of fats and oils,



- 3 -
including palm oil and soyabeans. Some new cash crops have been developed,
including sugar in the Delta of the-Senegal River and cotton in the Eastern
Region, but sugar production costs are high, and ecological conditions prevent
a major expansion of cotton cultivation in other areas; thus, even at the low
world market prices prevailing today, groundnuts continue to be the most
profitable cash crop. Improved farm techniques and careful use of inputs
offer real possibilities for increasing productivity and output in the
groundnut sector, and could help offset the erosion of export prices. But
the success of such programs will depend on major efforts to reduce inter-
mediate costs and improve the efficiency of Senegal's agricultural development
agencies.
10.       Millet and sorghum, the main foodcrops, are cultivated all over
the country for consumption by rural populations. However, in spite of
ongoing government efforts to promote increased consumption of millet, the
urban populations continue to demonstrate a clear preference for "superior"
cereals, i.e., wheat and rice. Senegal currently produces significant
quantities of rainfed rice (in the Casamance) and irrigated rice (in the
Delta), but annual imports of rice and other cereals are high, between
300,000 and 400,000 tons. There is considerable potential for further
development of irrigated rice cultivation along the Senegal River; but
irrigation requires high investment costs, and ongoing programs are suffering
from inefficient operations of the responsible agricultural development
agencies. At the prevailing exchange rate of the CFA franc, irrigated rice
produced in Senegal cannot yet compete with cheaper brands of broken rice
imported from Asia.
11.       The annual rate of growth of the agricultural sector since 1960
has been about 3 percent. However, this figure includes fisheries and
livestock which have developed far more rapidly than the rest of the sector.
In fact, growth of output per capita in the rural sector has probably been
close to zero. In addition, wide fluctuations of production have persisted
all along. From good to bad crop years, groundnut output has varied in a
ratio of 1 to 3, and cereals in a ratio of 1 to 2. This fact alone has
subjected the whole economy--and more directly farmers' living conditions--to
a high level of instability and uncertainty. At times, price movements have
been able to offset variations in output, but since 1974 they have in fact
amplified the effects of inadequate rainfall.
Other Sectors
12.       Before 1960, Senegal was the administrative, commercial and indus-
trial center of the West African Federation 1/, and enjoyed all the benefits
conferred by that status. Independence deprived the country of this role,
and during most of the sixties, Senegal had to adjust its administrative
1/ Under colonial rule, the federation comprised eight francophone countries:
Benin, Guinea, Ivory Coast, tauritania, Sudan (Mali), Upper Volta, and
Senegal.



- 4 -
structure, transit activity, and its infant industry to better match the
more limited needs of its domestic market. With a secondary sector contri-
buting about 23 percent of GDP in 1979, Senegal can be characterized as
a semi-industrialized country, by African standards. However, the average
growth of the industrial sector since 1960 has been a rather modest 4 per-
cent p.a. on average, a much slower rate than in most other coastal
countries in West Africa.
13.       The principal lines of industrial development have been produc-
tion and processing of primary products (phosphate, cement, groundnut oil),
and light manufacturing industry for import substitution. The secondary
sector, including the phosphate mine, employs about 7 percent of the labor
force. Highly skilled and managerial positions in most large- and medium-
scale enterprises are occupied by expatriates. The future of the mining and
industrial sectors is moderately promising. In mining, in addition to phos-
phates (estimates show 45 years of reserves at current production rate of 1.5
million tons p.a.), Senegal has modest offshore oil reserves and large iron
ore deposits of a quality that would seem appropriate for modern steel industry.
However, oil and iron ore reserves have not been fully explored. Ore deposits
are located far from existing transport centers; consequently, their develop-
ment would involve very high investment costs in transport infrastructure, and
commercial exploitation is unlikely to start during the present decade. With
respect to manufacturing, there are still some possibilities for developing
import-substitution industries. More importantly, the country's political
stability, its well-developed urban and port infrastructure, its proximity to
Europe, and its strong political and economic links with major European
countries could make it attractive to foreign investors and foster the
development of an export-oriented industry; but this will only be possible if
Government takes appropriate measures to create the necessary incentive
environment.
14.       At least two other areas hold more promise.  Senegal has rich
territorial waters with a large and diversified fish stock; in fact, the
domestic fishing and fish processing industry is one of the few truly
dynamic branches of economic activity. Also, the pleasant climate almost
throughout the year, the abundance of attractive beaches, and the develop-
ment of efficient airport facilities have served to encourage the growth
of a vibrant tourism industry which now contributes about 25 percent of
non-merchandise exports.
Social Factors
15.       Senegal's population shares most of the characteristics of African
demography: a rapid rate of growth (2.7 percent p.a.), a high dependency
ratio (slightly below 1:1) reflecting a very young population structure,
and a low but rapidly increasing rate of primary school attendance (over 50
percent in 1980, double the 1970 level). More importantly, the rate of
demographic growth seems to be accelerating, and the rate of growth of the
working age population (2.2 percent p.a.), though also increasing, is dis-
tinctly below the overall population growth rate. The attendant social
costs of these basic features--in terms of demand for education, health,
other basic services, and for jobs--create potentially serious problems
within a slow-growing economy such as Senegal's.



- 5 -
16.       Other socio-demographic factors more specific to Senegal have
a direct bearing on the economic environment. One is the large concen-
tration of population in the Dakar area, now a highly developed city and
administrative and cultural center of close to one million people, with
a large university and several other institutes of higher education. Another
is the impact of Senegal's long historical exposure to the Western world. The
most perceptible consequences of these two factors are a strong bias towards a
"European" pattern of consumption, a well-organized labor force with highly
vocal unions, and a liberal political system with officially recognized and
influential opposition parties. The overall impact is the continuing popular
demand for higher wages, job security, and various forms of social welfare--
all of which are expected to be provided by or through the Government. Thus,
labor costs are high by international standards, in a country which is often
considered as a labor-abundant economy.
B.   The Government's Development Strategies:  1960-1978
17.       Since Independence, the Government's strategy has in fact sacri-
ficed economic growth and improved income distribution in favor of two
other objectives: extending the process of political independence into
a gradual Senegalization of the economy, and strengthening government control
of the economic development process. In implementing this strategy, the
Government has demonstrated its political skill and achieved its stated
objectives without the radical measures that have disrupted economic activity
in many other newly independent countries. Nevertheless, the process led to
creation of an expansive and inefficient state bureaucracy which extended
its interventions into all segments of supply and demand in a somewhat dis-
organized manner. The following paragraphs describe the severe problems
resulting from these interventions on the agricultural and industrial sectors,
and illustrate the effects of deteriorating management in the public enter-
prise sector.
Agricultural Policies
18.       During the 1960s, efforts at Senegalization of the economic system
were mainly directed at the agricultural sector. The Government established a
wide network of agricultural development agencies and a highly centralized
marketing organization, and introduced a complex mechanism of guaranteed
prices and input subsidies.
19.       Agricultural development agencies.  One of the first tasks of the
Senegalese Government after Independence was to develop agricultural extension
services to improve rural productivity by disseminating to farmers technical
packages identified under national agronomic research programs. Originally
organized by cash crops (SODEVA for groundnuts, SODEFITEX for cotton and SAED
for irrigated rice), the new agricultural agencies were progressively turned
into multi-crop, integrated rural development enterprises operating on a
regional basis (SODEVA for the Groundnut Basin, SODEFITEX for Eastern Senegal,
SAED for the Senegal River Basin, and more recently SOMIVAC for the Casamance).



- 6 -
20.       The achievement:s of these rural development agencies have varied
widely depending on the quality of technical packages proposed to the farmers,
and on the overall efficiency of management of each agency. On the whole, the
regional development agencies operated effectively in the early stages of
execution of modest development programs; but further expansion and diversi-
fication of their activities may have been too rapid, thereby severely over-
taxing the technical skills and managerial talents of their staff. In addi-
tion, constant governmental pressure for job creation led to severe over-
staffing and growing inefficiencies. These organizational problems were
compounded by serious financial difficulties. Initially funded by external
aid, rural agencies had to rely increasingly on domestic resources for
counterpart funds and to meet operating and maintenance costs of completed
infrastructure works. Understandably, the deterioration of Government's
financial position over recent years has had pervasively negative effects on
the quality of the agencies' performance, as timely availability of adequate
financial resources was rarely assured.
21.       Deprived of financial means, overburdened with increasing numbers
of personnel (often inadequately trained), subjected to cumbersome ex ante
controls, and always pressed to start new projects and assume new responsi-
bilities, most of the rural development agencies started to lose their
initial dynamism. When SODEVA embarked on an ambitious program to modernize
cultivation techniques throughout the Sine Saloum region, it lacked the
drive it had displayed in the execution of earlier pilot operations. When
SAED wanted to speed up the pace of development of new irrigation schemes, it
was unable at the same tirme to adequately maintain existing perimeters.
22.       Finally, some basic deficiencies in the technical packages recom-
mended by agricultural research programs became apparent. Ongoing research
has been overly concentrated on a single zone of the Groundnut Basin, is not
up-to-date with the current findings of international research, and is
focussed too narrowly on improving yields of specific crops, without proper
consideration for the overall technical, economic and sociological constraints
of family farming. There is clearly an urgent need for a program to diversify
agricultural research in order to cover all the main ecological regions of
Senegal, together with efforts to better identify the many constraints of
the Senegalese farming systems (for example, time and labor limitations
during the planting and harvesting seasons, integration of farming activities
with the non-agricultural occupations of rural families, etc.).
23.       ONCAD, and the cooperative system.  Senegal, like all African
countries after Independence, felt that the marketing of cash crops was too
important to be left to private traders. A comprehensive State-controlled
system was therefore organized to replace the merchants who were buying
groundnuts from farmers and selling them to foreign-owned crushing mills.
However, instead of involving rural communities and strengthening village-
based farmers' associations, the marketing system relied on large regionalized
operations which attempted to function as cooperatives; the operations were
poorly managed, neglected the requests of production-oriented regional
development agencies, and were indifferent to the expressed wishes (and
complaints) of farmers. The system which eventually emerged was based on a



-7-
highly centralized national agency, the Office National de Coop6ration au
D6v4loppement (ONCAD), whose services were entirely responsible for the
management of regional cooperatives.
24.       The Government's main purpose in creating ONCAD was to market
groundnuts at a fixed, guaranteed price, set at uniform levels throughout
the country. However, ONCAD's functions were subsequently broadened to
include the monopoly for transport of groundnuts, procurement and delivery
of agricultural inputs, and later the management of seed stocks. A cumber-
some procedure was developed for grouped orders of fertilizers and tools.
In 1971, ONCAD was also given the monopoly for marketing of rice, and in
1975 for sorghum and millet, following the same system of uniform, guaran-
teed prices, fixed every year before the planting season.
25.       It took some time before Government became fully aware of the
shortcomings of its policy in the area of crop marketing and input supply.
One reason was the tendency to attribute most of the problems in the agri-
cultural sector to the frequent occurrence of moderate or severe droughts.
It is only recently--essentially since 1978--that ONCAD's widespread ineffi-
ciencies have been unanimously recognized and publicized.
26.       The major flaw in the agricultural marketing system was its failure
to encourage farmers' participation in the management of cooperatives. In
addition, with the rapid expansion of ONCAD's functions and personnel, its
performance deteriorated sharply. Not only did farmers frequently not receive
the quantities of fertilizers and other inputs requested, but deliveries were
increasingly delayed and inputs often arrived too late to be used during the
agricultural season. Cooperative accounts were not kept correctly, and
farmers complained that ONCAD asked them to repay credits they had neither
requested nor received. Unexplained losses of part of the groundnut crop
between the time of purchase from farmers and delivery to crushing mills
became more frequent. ONCAD's discredit became total when a very bad crop in
1979/80 was universally blamed by farmers more on ONCAD than on the irregular
rainfall which occurred in that year. Farmers felt that the impact of the
irregular rainfall was compounded by ONCAD's having delivered seeds of
very poor quality, a result of inadequate storage and handling practices.
27.       ONCAD's poor management had less severe consequences for food-
crops. In fact, the agency never had the means to compete with traditional-
foodcrop marketing systems; these latter are far more efficient than any
modern system to serve the modest needs of widely scattered rural communities.
In good crop years, millet surpluses offered by farmers far surpassed the
limits of ONCAD's storage capacity and the funds which it had available for
purchasing surplus production at the official price; in bad years, prices on
the parallel market exceeded official prices, and supplies to ONCAD dwindled
to insignificance.
28.       Prices and subsidies.  Guaranteed and uniform producer prices
were supplemented with a comprehensive system of input subsidies designed
to encourage farmers to use modern cultivation techniques (specifically,
increased quantities of fertilizers and a variety of agricultural tools and



- 8 -
equipment). A Stabilization Fund--Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation
des Prix (CPSP)-- was established, which financed input subsidies out of
expected earnings from groundnut sales 1/ and levies on rice imports.
29.       Subsidizing inputs has the advantage of minimizing farmer risks
associated with purchasing expensive fertilizers which have little impact
on total output in years when rainfall is inadequate. However, financing
subsidies out of earnings from groundnut sales tends to reduce producer
prices, thus discouraging efforts to increase output and improve yields
through more labor-intensive cultivation techniques, which, in the case
of groundnuts, influence output more significantly than fertilizers. How-
ever, while subsidies on agricultural tools and equipment were abolished
in 1980, subsidies on fertilizers continue to account for about 70 percent
of prices. When world market prices for groundnuts fell to the exceptionally
low level of US$468 per ton in 1979/80 2/, CPSP was unable to finance sub-
sidies out of groundnut surpluses. The Government was unable to compensate
CPSP for such losses, and eventually it was ONCAD which, having delivered
inputs at subsidized prices, had to bear the financial consequences. ONCAD's
deficits were in turn financed through rediscounted "seasonal" credits. 3/
30.       A balanced judgment of overall performance of the agricultural
sector in Senegal should take into account some very important achieve-
ments. Better varieties of groundnuts, cotton and foodcrops have been
developed. Considerable advances have been made to develop tools and
agricultural equipment well adapted to the needs of the small farmer, and much
success has been achieved in introducing draft animals and other improvements
in cultivation techniques. The need now is for carefully planned efforts
to further strengthen agricultural research, to streamline the operations
of the regional development agencies, and to provide them with appropriate
financial resources. However, output and yields will not increase unless
major reforms are introduced in the marketing and input delivery system.
The most urgent task is to carry out a general reform of the system in order
1/   ONCAD being remunerated on the basis of projected costs (baremes),
CPSP was receiving--or paying--the margin between world market prices
and domestic costs.
2/   US$323 in 1977 prices, as compared to US$768 in 1974 and US$523 in
early 1970.
3/   CPSP-s financial problems, however, were not the only cause of ONCAD-s
deficits. In theory, ONCAD-s costs were limited by an established
schedule (bareme) based on a provisional budget. In fact, the provi-
sional estimates were often too optimistic, so that the real costs
of ONCAD's operations quickly surpassed the bareme. Moreover, on several
occasions, Government cancelled farmers' seed debts to ONCAD, leaving the
agency to bear the consequences of these financial losses. In 1979,
outstanding credits to ONCAD reached about CFAF 60 billion, of which
only about half corresponded to recoverable assets.



- 9 -
to cut waste, increase efficiency, and gradually regain the confidence of
farmers. It is also important at this time to start involving farmers and
rural communities in the management of cooperatives, and to test new methods
allowing direct sales of the groundnut crop by cooperatives to crushing mills,
and direct delivery of inputs by suppliers. With respect to foodcrops,
recent experience has confirmed the difficulty of organizing effective State-
controlled marketing schemes; this is an area in which private trade will for
a long time be the most economical method.
Industrial Policies
31.       The Government's policy of Senegalization and public control
of key economic activities was applied quite differently in the industrial
sector than it was in agriculture. During the first decade after Indepen-
dence, hardly any attempt was made to challenge the role of existing indus-
trial enterprises largely controlled by foreign private interests. The
Government did, however, try to develop a few small Senegalese enterprises
in the traditional sector with the objective of ultimately graduating them
into the modern sector; it also required foreign enterprises to make a
studied effort to replace expatriate staff with Senegalese personnel; as an
additional step, and under pressure from labor unions, the Government imposed
general wage increases designed to at least maintain the purchasing power of
wage earners, and instituted personnel policies aimed at guaranteeing job
security. But no attempt was made in those early years to address the issue
of foreign ownership in the industrial sector.
32.       The policy practiced during the 1960s did, however, have a signi-
ficant effect on the growth and direction of development in the industrial
sector. As a result of governmental action regarding employment and wages,
production costs increased rapidly, and the industry was able to survive
only by concentrating its efforts on the domestic market, and with the
benefits of ad hoc quantitative and tariff protection. Indeed, established
entrepreneurs did find ways to obtain sufficient protection, and moderate
but fairly secure profits enabled them to work with obsolete equipment, and
to tolerate overstaffing and inadequate labor discipline. But new and
potentially more dynamic entrepreneurs were less interested in operating in
this climate.
33.       It is therefore not surprising that the growth rate experienced
in the sector remained only modest, and that firms operating in Senegal
showed little interest in developing export markets on which their products
were becoming less and less competitive. A notable exception was the
groundnut crushing mill sector, controlled by foreign interests and with most
of its output sold to European markets: over time, the processing capacity of
these mills increased to the point where they were able to handle the
country's entire groundnut harvest.
34.       In the early 1970s, the Government tried to play a more active
role in promotion of the industrial sector. Efforts were made, in colla-
boration with private enterprises, to encourage the development of export



- 10 -
industries. However, while Senegal has been able to develop what has become a
very successful hotel and tourism industry, most of the other initiatives
have remained rather sporadic, with not very encouraging results. In 1975,
for example, an industrial free trade zone was established in Dakar; but
this was done in the absence of adequate promotion efforts, and without the
necessary measures to reduce administrative and bureaucratic obstacles.
More importantly, promotion of private enterprises and export industries
will never yield substantial results unless prospective investors are offered
a comprehensive package of incentives to compensate them for the high produc-
tion costs of Senegalese industry, including labor costs.
35.       Having failed to stimulate private investment, the Government
turned to a policy of direct public investment in industry and other sectors.
This was made possible by the sharp rise in phosphate prices (from US$12 per
ton in 1972 to US$67 in 1975) which allowed for a considerable increase in
export revenues and public savings, and enabled Government to borrow heavily
on the Eurodollar market.
36.       A substantial part of these new resources was used by Government
to acquire majority ownership in several foreign-owned private enterprises,
including the Taiba Phosphate Mining Company, two public utility companies,
and a wide variety of smaller firms. Total new acquisitions raised to about
40 percent the proportion of value added in the modern sector that was
controlled by State enterprises or mixed companies. Furthermore, the Govern-
ment created a new public agency (SONACOS) with a monopoly for the export
of groundnut products (oil and cakes), and new contracts with the private
crushing mills were concluded that provide for the gradual transfer of their
assets to Government over several years, a process that will probably be
completed by 1981.
37.       While the control of Taiba allowed, for a few years, a considerable
increase in the revenues which Government derived from the mining sector,
most of the other Government participations were far less profitable.
One important reason was that the Government take-over of specific enter-
prises was seldom decided on the basis of adequate preparatory work and
detailed economic and financial analysis. As a result, many of these enter-
prises turned out to be hardly viable, and have been unable to survive
without financial support from Government in the form of subsidies, Treasury
advances and loan guarantees.
38.       In parallel with the take-over of existing companies, Government
also undertook to create a number of new large-scale export industries. For
several years, Government collaborated actively with foreign partners in
preparation of a large ship-repair project in Dakar, and on an ambitious
petrochemical and fertilizer complex near the port of Cayar. However, this
complex has since been abandoned, and only a reduced version of the Dakar
ship-repair project was started, with the help of external public and private
financing. With the recent deterioration of the country's balance of payments
and public finance position, government officials gradually came to recognize



- 11 -
that these large industrial schemes would generate little employment, while
absorbing extraordinary amounts of scarce resources and forcing Government to
assume considerable risks which it could ill afford.
39.       The above discussion suggests that Government's intervention
in the industrial sector was initially more prudent than its efforts in
agriculture, but that the industrial policy has unfortunately not produced
any more favorable results. The development of private industry has been
overwhelmed by a plethora of administrative constraints, including costly
wage policy and price controls, and has gradually been losing its expected
vitality. Exports were in effect taxed, and, on the domestic market, while
some segments of the industry did benefit from justifiable protection, tax
holidays and protection measures were not based on an adequate evaluation of
potential benefits for the Senegalese economy. In the end, Senegalese firms
operated within an ad hoc incentive system which was not conducive to efficient
import substitution, and which discouraged exports. Studies on effective
protection and domestic resource costs have shown that the price of goods
marketed in Senegal exceeds the cost of comparable goods in world prices by 15
to 35 percent.
40.       It is therefore urgent for Government to review the system of
industrial incentives, and to conceive measures to correct existing distor-
tions and provide appropriate signals to private entrepreneurs, so that
private profitability and social benefits should not be too divergent. At
the same time, the Government should limit its investments in large-scale
industrial enterprises, and should avoid assuming major financial and com-
mercial risks in the sector.
Other Aspects of Management of the Public Enterprise Sector
41.      Since Independence, the Senegalese Government has developed a
sizable (although rather inefficient) public enterprise sector, a process
which started in the sixties in the agricultural sector and was systemati-
cally extended in the seventies to industry and other key economic areas.
There are now many striking examples of public enterprises which, either at
times or permanently, have been unable to perform their duties in a satis-
factory and economic manner; these include not only ONCAD, CPSP, and to a
lesser extent the regional rural development agencies, but also Regie des
Chemins de Fer (railways), SOTRAC (urban transport), SISCOMA, (manufacturing
of agricultural tools), SONAFOR (drilling company), BNDS (development bank),
OHLM and SICAP (public housing agencies), and many others. The main defi-
ciencies are almost everywhere the same: lack of clear definition of
objectives and priorities, shortage of managerial and technical skills,
cumbersome administrative and financial controls, inadequate monitoring and
auditing practices, and insufficient funding of key activities.  Too many
routine decisions (which nevertheless need to be taken urgently) have to be
submitted to ex ante approval by the responsible ministry, while ex post
evaluation procedures are virtually non-existent.  Despite these deficien-
cies, almost all public enterprises have been pressed to expand their role
and diversify their activities, without appropriate consideration being
given to available manpower and financial resources. As a consequence,



- 12 -
deficits (that had to be financed by government subsidies and/or loans from
the banking system) accumulated, and implementation of priority projects and
essential maintenance operations were often delayed for lack of counterpart
funds, or because available working capital and current revenues were grossly
insufficient. Finally, instead of being the most efficient branch of the
public sector, public enterprises are generally weak, and seldom achieve the
physical and financial objectives assigned for them.
42.       Clearly, the performance of the principal Senegalese public enter-
prises needs to be thoroughly reviewed. Some of them may have lost their
"raison d'etre" and might be returned to the private sector. Most others
would need to operate on the basis of more clearly defined objectives and more
realistic targets; they should then be given a large measure of operational
autonomy, together with the appropriate capital structure, working capital,
and other financial resources required to perform effectively their assigned
functions.
43.       The preceding paragraphs have described the various sectoral
policies which led to the expansion of an ubiquitous but inefficient para-
public sector. These policies, together with the cross-subsidization system
inherent in CPSP's interventions, price controls, and minimum wage and
guaranteed employment policies have all profoundly affected the structure of
prices and incomes. While this complicated system of government intervention
that has developed over the years is hard to disentangle, it is possible to
identify some of its main results. On the positive side, the overall rate of
inflation, which was very low until the early seventies, has since been
maintained--with a notable exception in 1974 and 1975--at a level that is
relatively modest, compared to most other African countries. This was the
result of effective price controls and selected subsidies for a number of
basic goods, liberal import procedures and policies, and an increasingly high
effective exchange rate of the Senegalese currency. On the other hand, the
policy of "maintaining the purchasing power of wage earners" led to high
levels of private consumption, and to an unmeasurable but clear bias in favor
of urban incomes relative to those of the rural population. Also, as noted
earlier, distortions in incentives have led to an anti-export bias for non-
traditional exports, and excessive protection for large segments of the import
substitution industry. Finally, the policy of subsidization, high wages and
below-cost tariffs of many public enterprises 1/ have contributed to the
erosion of public savings. The following paragraphs describe how these
policies, without stimulating growth, eventually led to a rapid deterioration
of the country's public finance and balance-of-payments position, and to its
present economic and financial crisis.
C.   Macroeconomic Developments and the 1978-1980 Crisis
44.       The influence of adverse external factors and inadequate govern-
ment policies led to a situation which, in macroeconomic terms, can be
summarized as follows: a long-term pattern of very slow growth, increasingly
wide fluctuations around the trend, which culminated in the fiscal and
balance-of-payments crisis of the last two years.
1/   Energy products are a notable exception.



- 13 -
Overall Perspective
45.       Abstracting from annual movements in aggregates, Senegal during
the sixties was essentially a slowly growing economy (2.3 percent p.a.) with
a high rate of consumption (over 91 percent of GDP), a low level of domestic
investment (13 percent of GDP) 1/, and therefore a comparatively small
resource gap (3.6 percent of GDP). Although the situation during the
sixties could be characterized as a "low-growth equilibrium", there was a
slow but discernible trend toward a decline in the rate of investment, an
increase in the rate of consumption, and a widening of the resource gap.
46.       During the seventies, a deliberate effort was made to step up
investment to a level of 18 percent of GDP on average, which was achieved
through a major increase in public investment (equivalent to 4.8 percent
of GDP during the period 1960-72, and 10-11 percent in 1979/80). However, as
the high ICORs indicate, overall investment in Senegal has a low productivity.
In particular, the recent increase in public investment had little impact
on economic activity. This is attributable to the Government's preference
for infrastructure works and highly visible capital-intensive projects,
to poor project preparation often based on inadequate economic analysis, and
to the fact that as the rate of investment increased, it became more difficult
to identify projects with high rates of return.
47.       The investment policies implemented during the seventies had
a pervasive negative impact on the country's economic position. Not only
did the higher investment rate fail to stimulate growth, but the resource
gap doubled to 6.5 percent of GDP in 1977 in the absence of a greater
saving effort (consumption absorbed more than 88 percent of GDP on average).
Moreover, the declining share of public savings and the rising proportion
of non-concessionary external capital (see Table 1 below) led to the rapid
growth of external debt and to a dangerously high debt service ratio.
Table 1: GROSS DOMESTIC INVESTMENT FINANCING
(in percent of GDP)
1960-72            1973-80
Public Savings 1/                               2.2                 2.4
Non-concessionary funds                         1.0 2/              3.4
Memo items:  Gross domestic investment         13.4                19.0
: Public investment                 (4.8)              (10.1)
: ICOR                               6.0                 6.0
1/   Includes amortization on public debt.
2/   No statistics available before 1970.
1/   The level of investment is particularly low if changes in stocks are
excluded; net fixed investment (after depreciation) had been close
to zero until the early seventies. When after 1973 economic policies
became more expansionist, net fixed investment amounted to about 6
percent of GDP.



- 14 -
48.       Any Sahelian country, with a large external sector and a high
degree of concentration of exports, is necessarily exposed to wide varia-
tions of output and export receipts. In Senegal, however, during the sixties
and the earlier part of the seventies, negative developments were often
compensated for by positive fluctuations in other areas. For example, severe
droughts in 1972/73 were followed by a sharp rise in groundnut prices; the
increase in the price of oil imports in 1973/74 was more than offset by higher
phosphate export prices (in fact, Senegal's terms of trade improved by about
20 percent in 1974); and finally, when phosphate prices fell sharply in 1975,
there was a record groundnut crop in 1975/76. It is only when all the exogenous
factors acted in the same negative direction that Senegal experienced the
worst economic and financial crisis of its post-Independence period.
The 1978-1980 Crisis
49.       The 1978-80 crisis has resulted from the prolonged effects of
earlier trends, particularly in the areas of slow growth, low savings,
and the widening resource gap; but this time, these effects have been
exacerbated by other factors--the new oil price increases in 1979 and bad
crop years in 1977/78 and 1979/80--which were outside Senegal's control,
and which, moreover, offered no compensating favorable development. The
following table illustrates the magnitude of a problem whose fiscal,
monetary, and balance-of-payments aspects are further detailed in subse-
quent paragraphs:
Table 2: SUMMARY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
(in percent of GDP)
1977 1/    1978    1979    1980
GDP growth rate
(constant prices)             0.7        -9.0    12.6    -5.5
Consumption 2/                 89          94       97     100
(of which public)             (11)        (12)    (11)    (11)
Imports                        50          51       54      50
Exports                         44         34       35      32
Resource Gap                     6         17       19      18
Investment                     17          23       22      18
Government overall budget
deficit 3/                  3.2         3.7      3.7     3.0
Money Supply (end year)         23         35       32      30 4/
1/   The year 1977 can be considered as a "normal" year.
2/   The shares in GDP are calculated from current price data.
3/   1977/78 figure applies to 1978, etc.
4/   Projection.



- 15 -
Fiscal Imbalances
50.       The development of public finances since 1976/77, summarized
in Table 3, shows that the Government made a serious effort to compensate
for the fall in phosphate revenues by improving tax collection and intro-
ducing new taxes. To contain the growth of current expenditures, wage
scales for civil servants were held level, and outlays for current supplies
and maintenance were restrained. This, in turn, created a substantial
salary gap between the private and the public sectors; it also affected the
quality of public services (lack of drugs in hospitals), and the condition of
the country's capital assets (notably roads).
Table 3: PUBLIC FINANCES, 1976-1981
(in billions of CFAF)
Actuals          Estimates   Budget
1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81
Central Government Accounts
Revenues                         105         110          127        154 2/    163 2/
Current Expenditures 1/          -86          98         -105       -121        120
Gross budgetary savings         19          12           22         33         43
Interest charges                  -4          -4           -7         -9        -10
Amortization of foreign debts   -6            -8          -13        -21        -23
Budgetary savings after
debt service                     9           0            2          3         10
Capital Expenditures             -26         -13          -22        -20        -22
Total deficit (-)              -17         -13          -20        -17        -12
Public Savings Performance
Budget savings after foreign
debt service                     9           0            2          3         10
Savings of parapublic sector 5/ 10             1            3         -2          2 4/
Total public investments          46          46           51         60         70 4/
Public savings after debt
service as percentage of
public investment               42%          1%          10%         1%        17%
1/   Excluding interest on public debt.
2/   Includes development revenues such as the levy on non-invested profits.
3/   Budget figure unlikely to be realized.
4/   Bank estimate.
5/   Public savings that transit through Treasury only.



- 16 -
51.       In less troubled times, the new fiscal policies would have gone a
long way toward resolving Senegal's public finance problems. As it was,
higher debt service payments created severe liquidity problems for the
Government; moreover, the poor savings performance of parapublic enterprises
eroded their capital base and increased claims on the Treasury. Consequently,
despite the new tax measures, the Treasury was unable to meet its current
obligations to the private sector and to provide agreed counterpart funds
for foreign-financed projects. The seriousness of the situation is il-
lustrated by the increase in outstanding advances from the Central Bank to
the Government from CFAF 1.9 billion at end-1975 to CFAF 13.6 billion at
end-1979, together with an accumulation of unpaid bills to the rest of the
economy of about CFAF 18 billion in mid-1979. Moreover, many of the para-
public enterprises had to rely increasingly on bank credits.
52.       Thus, while the Government's overall deficit is not particularly
worrisome in relation to GDP (see Table 2), the poor financial state of the
public sector as a whole has had a serious impact on the economy by making
the financing of public investment increasingly problematic, weakening the
finances of private firms because of heavy accumulation of receivables, and
adding to the over-expansion and deteriorating quality of domestic credit.
Monetary Aspects
53.       During the 12 years following Independence, the money supply
expanded little and the rise in consumer prices was minimal. The only
discernible trend was a slow erosion of net foreign assets concomitantly
with a decline in government deposits with the banking system. These condi-
tions were consistent with the low-growth equilibrium noted earlier. By the
end of 1973, however, money supply had risen by 22 percent, net foreign assets
had become negative, and the Government had become a net domestic borrower.
Also, the consumer price index rose by 11 percent, or more than three times
faster than the average observed since Independence.
54.       The years after 1973 can be characterized as turbulent.  The
increase in the money supply has been both rapid and erratic; it now repre-
sents 32 percent of GDP, or more than double its pre-1973 level. Net foreign
assets are highly negative (see balance of payments, para. 57); the Government
itself absorbs 10 percent of total credit and has practically reached the
statutory ceiling imposed by the Central Bank, but credit to the public sector
as a whole (including the financing of government arrears to the private
sector) represents more than 30 percent. Owing to the elimination of consumer
subsidies, consumer prices rose by 50 percent in just two years (1974-75), but
since then have been kept at an average annual growth rate of 8 percent.
55.       This rapid expansion in the money supply was related to the manner
in which the Government handled the frequent droughts and their consequences.
During bad crop years, the Government tried to stimulate aggregate demand by
cancelling farmers' debts and increasing public investment; it then applied a
liberal credit policy to quicken the pace of recovery. With droughts recurring
every other year, these policies were responsible for the lack of monetary
discipline and the related negative impact on the balance-of-payments.



- 17 -
56.       The expansion of credit affected imports in two ways:  a large part
served to directly finance imports, and another part increased domestic demand
which in turn called for more imports. For example, ample credit supply
allowed for continued investments despite the low savings performance, while
generous personal credits boosted consumer demand. The excessive credit
expansion has not only seriously affected the economy's external balance, but
it has also brought about a deterioration in the quality of credit, including
the growth of credits to ONCAD (CFAF 60 billion at the end of 1979), more than
half of which was not covered by real assets (see footnote 3, p. 8). Finally,
since little could be done about bad credits to the parapublic sector, the
more restrictive policies applied by the Central Bank since the last quarter
of 1979 affected mainly the private sector.
The Balance of Payments
57.       The interaction of unfavorable long-term trends and unexpected
external shocks that have brought on the current crisis is best illustrated in
Senegal's external accounts. Sluggish growth of exports and sharply rising
imports are by far the dominant underlying factors. The first serious deterio-
ration in the resource balance occurred in 1973 and 1974 when the drought
reduced export volumes, and more importantly, when steep price increases more
than doubled the value of the food import bill, absorbing 28 percent of total
export receipts in 1974. In relative terms, the increase in the oil bill was
also alarming, but did not yet constitute a disproportionate burden, accounting
for only 11 percent of export receipts that same year. But by 1979, the
import bill of petroleum had doubled, while food imports slightly exceeded
their 1974 level after a moderate decline in the intervening years. At the
same time, interest payments on external debt, which were insignificant before
1973, had become the single most important item in the current balance on
services, with total debt service figuring as a major entry in the overall
balance of payments. These various elements are summarized in the following
table for three " representative" years:
Table 4: KEY ITEMS IN THE BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(as percentage of exports 1/)
1972        1974         1979
Food                        23           28           23
Petroleum                    5           11           16
Debt Service                  4           6           14
TOTAL                    32           45           53
Memo: Current
Account Deficit       3           12           51
It is important to note, however, that while the three components above have
become major factors, they are by no means solely responsible for Senegal's
current account position. On the contrary, it is remarkable that all import
categories have increased so fast in recent years.
1/   Goods and non-factor services.



- 18 -
58.       The terms of trade, after a sharp improvement in 1974, deterio-
rated in the last few years, in fact falling back to their 1973 level.
However, because the volume of imports has been rising so much faster than
that of exports, the effect of world inflation on the trade deficit was
disastrous. Thus, if the prices of both imports and exports had remained
the same since 1971, other things being equal, the trade deficit in 1979
would have been lowered by about US$320 million, i.e., it would have been
58 percent smaller than it actually was.
59.       Preliminary estimates for 1980 point to a balance of payments
situation similar to, if not slightly worse, than that of 1979. The main
factors at play have been a poor crop in 1979/80 combined with low groundnut
prices, and more increases in oil and other import prices. Based on arbi-
trary but probably reasonable assumptions, one can approximate the hypo-
thetical deficits on current account as compared to the actual outcome (see
Table 5). Although one could easily blame 60 percent of Senegal's current
deficit in 1980 on abnormal factors, such as the vagaries of the weather and
rising energy costs, one must not overlook the fundamental weaknesses that
also contributed to this deficit, as is reflected in the external accounts.
Table 5: THE DEFICIT OF 1980
(US$ million)
Assuming "normal"
crops and no
Actual         Assuming        increase in oil
estimated   "normal" crops            price
Exports of goods & NFS            841           1,078              1,070
Imports of goods & NFS          1,318           1,368              1,270
Resource gap                     -477            -290                -200
Net factor services &
transfers                        66              32                  32
Current account balance          -411            -258               -168
C/A balance as % of GDP            15.6             9.8                 6.4
60.       For many years, Senegal's current account deficit was easily
covered by large inflows of official development assistance which financed
not only imports of capital equipment, but also a substantial part of local
costs. As the bulk of such aid was in the form of grants and very soft loans,
the impact of the deficit--and its financing--on the balance of payments was
generally favorable. From 1973 to 1979, however, the expanding public invest-
ment program was financed by a rapid increase in gross capital inflows,
including a growing share of commercial credits. With the decline of the
grant element of capital inflows (from 37 percent in 1971/73 to 25 percent in
1977/79), the debt service approached levels that clearly call for stricter
debt management.



- 19 -
61.       Rising capital inflows were not sufficient to prevent a sharp
decline in Senegal's foreign assets after 1972. Already in 1973, net foreign
assets of the Central Bank amounted to practically zero, and commercial banks'
foreign liabilities began to exceed their foreign assets--a feature of in-
creasing significance in the Senegalese context. By the end of 1979, total
net foreign assets are estimated to have declined further to about minus
US$373 million. Such high levels of negative reserves are only possible
because of the franc zone arrangements, which provide for an "operations
account" of the Central Bank of the West African Monetary Union (BCEAO) with
the French Treasury, and guarantee the unlimited convertibility of the CFA
franc. However, Senegal's position within the monetary union has now become
quite uncomfortable, particularly as the external position of the BCEAO as a
whole has weakened considerably, with the two most developed countries in the
union--the Ivory Coast and Senegal--being responsible for this state of
affairs.
Table 6:  SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ million, Current Prices)
1980
1972       1978        1979        (estimated)
Trade balance                      -90        -416        -548           -594
C/A balance                        -13        -269        -436           -411
Net capital                         16         185         317            357
(public capital, net)            (11)       (135)       (136)          (236)
Net foreign assets (end year)       23        -171        -319           -373
Debt service ratio (%)               3.7        15.1        15.8           19.5
Conclusion: The Need for Change
62.       Senegal now faces its most difficult economic challenge.  Real
income per head has increased at best marginally since Independence. While
some segments of the urban population have improved their lot, living con-
ditions in the rural areas have hardly improved--if at all. The Government's
budgetary position is weak, the public sector has expanded greatly, but its
productive efficiency has, by and large, declined. External imbalances have
reached unsustainable levels. No doubt, initial conditions and external
factors have contributed to Senegal's plight, but the need for drastic
changes in economic policies is inescapable--and this is now widely recog-
nized in Senegal and abroad. Indeed, the task of rehabilitating the economy
and moving towards a path of long-term growth is immense, and will require
unprecedented mutual efforts by the Government and the international community.



- 20 -
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
63.       Until the mid-seventies, despite lagging growth and increasing
financial imbalances, there was no serious effort by the Government to change
policies on a broad front. It was only after 1974/75 that the deteriorating
fiscal and balance-of-payments positions prompted the introduction of a number
of stabilization measures, eventually under IMF programs, with some success in
public finance but little achievement in monetary matters. The current
financial crisis has given the Government a new awareness in the midst of
growing pressure from the BCEAO, and an intensified dialogue with the IMF and
the Bank.
64.       In December 1979, the Economic and Financial Recovery Program
was launched, of which some important measures are already being implemented.
Recently, the Prime Minister addressed a letter to the President of the Bank
Group, together with a Statement of Economic Policy (see Annex IV). This
statement confirms both the Government's determination to come to grips with
the causes of Senegal's long-term stagnation and financial problems, and the
adoption of several crucial strategies related to the improvement of public
investment and of the country's institutional framework, particularly in the
agricultural sector. In a clear departure from the previous reliance on ad
hoc corrective measures, the Government is now committed to a comprehensive
program of economic recovery. Following is a summary analysis of objectives
of the Government-s program, the Bank Group's evaluation of that program, and
a forecast of Senegal's medium-term economic prospects.
A.   Objectives of the Program
65.       The broad objectives are first, to stabilize the economy particularly
by reducing the gap in the balance of payments; second, to stimulate growth;
and third, to reduce urban-rural income inequalities. The first two to three
years of the program focus on the stabilization objective, and thereafter the
economy is expected to resume a steadier growth pace. The main quantifiable
objectives are:
-    reduction of the current account deficit from 15.6 percent of
GDP in 1980 to 6-7 percent in the medium-term 1/ and of the
overall budget deficit from CFAF 18.5 billion in 1979/80 to a
surplus of CFAF 4 billion by 1980/81.
-    generation of (net) public savings through the budget equivalent
to 15 percent of public investment in 1981 and to 25 percent in
1985.
-    an overall rate of investment of 16 percent in 1981 rising to
18 percent in 1985 (including an average of 10 percent of GDP
for the public sector).
1/   7.7 percent in 1985 on the basis of Bank projections.



- 21 -
credit expansion slightly below 8 percent in 1980.
containment of inflation at a rate below 10 percent on average
(as in recent years).
-    an average growth rate of 4 percent of GDP in the -ast two years of
the program and thereafter (i.e., about 1.3 percent above population
growth).
66.       For the realization of these objectives, the program prescribes
measures in four interrelated areas: fiscal and monetary; prices and incen-
tives; public investment; and the parapublic sector, primarily in agriculture.
The first set of measures aims principally at economic stabilization through
containing aggregate demand, and reducing the share in GDP of private and
public consumption,, The other measures focus on stimulating supply, while new
pricing policies and the reform of agricultural institutions are also expected
to eventually lead to a shift of income towards the rural population.
Fiscal and Monetary Policies
67.       Since 1977, Government has taken measures almost each year to
increase budget receipts. The latest such measures were introduced in March
1980 when taxes on imports, gasoline and luxury goods were raised, and levies
on non-invested profits doubled. Debt management, which used to be shared
between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs,
has been put under the control of the latter, and merged with the existing
public investment department responsible for new borrowing. The new unit is
thus placed in a central position for ensuring efficient debt management; it
is being strengthened with Bank Group-financed technical assistance. Addi-
tional tax income accruing from the latest raises would be partly allocated to
the Government's sinking fund 1/ to eliminate its deficit. More stringent
conditions have also been placed on recourse to suppliers' credits.
68.       The program seeks to improve net public savings by containing
recurrent expenditures and the relative burden of debt service rather than
through additional taxes. Recurrent expenditures would go down from 22.6
percent of GDP in 1980 to 20.3 percent in 1985, and the debt service burden on
the budget would decline over the same period from 5.6 percent to 4.7 percent.
The 1980/81 budget includes secured financing of counterpart funds, as well
as increased public savings after debt service to a level of 15 percent of
planned public investments; the objective is to increase the latter contribu-
tion to 25 percent by 1985, while restraining total fixed investment to 16
percent of GDP in the initial years and increasing it gradually to 18 percent
by 1985. 2/
69.       Another set of measures already being implemented aim at tightening
the budget execution. These include: (i) elimination of tax exonerations and
Treasury advances given on a personal basis to individuals or private enter-
prises; (ii) creation of a verification unit to review direct tax assessments,
1/   Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement.
2/   From 13 percent to 14 percent in constant 1971 prices.



- 22 -
which had become an area of special privileges; and (iii) in-depth analysis of
recurrent expenditures, an exercise that has already resulted in, for example,
the closure of 23 Senegalese embassies and consulates abroad. Government
raised (for the first time in five years) wage scales of civil servants, but
at the same time drastically increased the contribution for the pension
fund--thus balancing this account of the Treasury--lowered housing allocations
for civil servants, and reduced French technical assistance by 10 percent to
contain the increasing cost of Senegal's contribution.
70.       In the medium term, Government plans to keep the growth of recurrent
expenditures below the growth in revenues.  It intends to achieve this objec-
tive by keeping expenditures on supplies of materials unchanged in constant
prices, and by reducing the share of personnel cost in total recurrent expendi-
tures. The 1980/81 budget is in line with these objectives. Furthermore,
Government plans to shift some goods to higher import duty regimes if overall
budgetary revenues fall short of the projections. The proposed increase in
capital expenditures will only take place if appropriate finance can be found
within the foreign borrowing ceilings already agreed upon with DIF (para.
102). An improved use of the concessionary funds available to Senegal, and a
rigorous limitation of commercial funds to projects that can carry the corres-
ponding debt service from their own cash flow, will bring the relative debt
service burden to a more modest level. Finally, Government will have paid all
its arrears to the private sector before July 1, 1981.
71.       Having failed in their efforts at restricing credit in the past, the
monetary authorities imposed at the beginning of 1980 monthly credit ceilings
for primary banks, with penalty deposits to be made if these ceilings are
exceeded. As agreed with the IMF, during 1980 in case of a normal crop,
credits should not grow more than 8 percent above the level attained at the
end of 1979. The US$100 million expansion implicit in this ceiling will be
used exclusively for designated priority sectors of the economy. An important
step by the monetary authorities to dampen domestic credit demand and reduce
transfers abroad was the raise of the rediscount rate from 8 percent to
10.5 percent, and of the special rate for priority sectors from 5.5 percent to
8 percent. These raises are applicable to all members of the monetary union,
thus allowing Senegal to increase all its debtor and creditor rates accordingly.
72.       As a step towards improving mobilization of personal savings and
developing financial intermediation, a new social housing bank has been
established which will allocate scarce housing loans (subsidized from the
revenues of a special housing tax on wages) according to the size and duration
of deposits made by prospective borrowers. This institution will place
high-interest savings certificates with organizations and enterprises that
want to benefit from the low-cost housing programs for their personnel.
Prices and Incentives
73.       Consumer Prices.  A true pricing policy (verite des prix) was
adopted in principle in 1975, when the Government began to gradually
eliminate subsidies on basic foods. The restructuring of the seriously
distorted price system has necessarily taken severalyears in view of its
potential impact on local production, cost-of-living, and budgetary savings.
However, by July 1980, the last consumer price subsidy (on groundnut oil and
millet flour) had been abolished. In general, the true pricing policy will



- 23 -
seek greater flexibility to ensure that, in times of steeply increasing
production costs, profit margins are not eroded and private investment is not
discouraged, as is the case with the rigid system now in place. The list of
goods requiring preliminary approval for price increases will be reduced to a
few items, and emphasis will be placed on ex post verification of declared
price increases. The program also calls for new measures relating to import
and export prices, to better reflect the real economic cost of these goods
(paras. 75 and 79).
74.       In parallel with a more flexible pricing policy, the Government will
annually raise modern sector wages and salaries by only 60 percent of the
cost-of-living adjustment, plus an increase fully proportional to the rise, if
any, in real per capita GDP over the same period. This new system applies to
the public sector as of July 1980 (when salaries were raised by 7 percent), and
will apply to the private sector as of January 1981, after a modest wage
increase promised earlier by the Government comes into effect.
75.       Import and Export Prices.  While it is generally recognized that the
CPA franc is overvalued with respect to Senegal, the common rules of the
monetary union preclude an exchange rate adjustment by a single member country.
The government program therefore calls for two complementary measures. The
first, soon to be effective, is an increase of the basic import duty to 15
percent, following an increase from 5 percent to 10 percent in MIarch 1980.
The Government will gradually eliminate some of the exemptions that apply to
imported capital and intermediate goods; this will make import taxation more
uniform and less discriminatory. The second measure is the introduction of an
export subsidy of 10 percent on the fob value of five sectors that are expected
to respond best to such incentives: processed fish, textiles including
ready-made clothes and knitted goods, cotton, fertilizers, and agricultural
tools. Besides raising incentives, these two measures are expected to yield
additional net budget revenues of about CFAF 2.3 billion a year.
76.       Agricultural Prices.  The prices of four commodities--groundnuts,
cotton, millet and rice--are key parameters in the economy in that they
affect output, rural incomes, the cost of living, and also (especially ground-
nut prices) the level of public revenue and savings. The program will seek to
rationalize State intervention in these areas (partly on the basis of a study
on the optimal relative prices for agricultural products commissioned by the
Government and now nearing completion), and to maintain some subsidies for
agricultural inputs along the following lines. The Government will continue
to fix producer prices annually at levels consistent with long-term trends in
world markets (groundnuts and cotton) and to protect farmers from sharp
short-term price fluctuations, but will give higher priority than in the past
to: first, reducing the margin between producer and world prices by eliminating
waste and excessive intermediate costs; and second, ensuring a more "adequate"
relationship between producer prices for various crops (especially groundnuts,
cotton, millet) to avoid undesirable short-term shifts in output.
77.       Regarding prices for domestically traded millet (which is only a
small fraction, perhaps up to 20 percent, of the total crop) the Government
will guard against sharp seasonal and inter-annual fluctuations by stocking
and selling appropriate quantities of millet. However, Government will limit



- 24 -
its market intervention to the operation of a security stock equivalent to
CFAF 1.5 billion 1/ which, in effect, means accepting that market prices (at
both producer and retail level) will vary. The Government has also begun to
enlarge the area for private traders' activity in the market. Finally, the
program intends to carry out an in-depth review of the millet marketing
system with a view to introducing whatever reforms would seem warranted by
1983.
78.        The domestic consumer price for rice will continue to be subject to
cross subsidization between the (cheaper) imported rice and the (more expen-
sive) domestic rice. In order to better reflect the real cost of foreign
exchange, the Government intends to fully incorporate in the retail price the
15 percent import tariff (para. 75). As a logical follow-up to the true
pricing policy, the program calls for a gradual decrease in fertilizer sub-
sidies; subsidies on agricultural tools were discontinued in 1980.
79.       Finally, an important objective of the program is to replenish the
finances of the CPSP after the exceptional losses it incurred in 1979. To
that effect, the level of subsidization and cross-subsidization performed by
the CPSP will be periodically adjusted to its financial means (derived prin-
cipally from surpluses on groundnut exports), and the Treasury will compensate
the CPSP for costs resulting from government subsidies if they exceed CPSP's
resources.
The Investment Program
80.        In designing and implementing an investment program, especially
for the 6th Four-Year Plan of Economic and Social Development (1981-85), the
Government seeks to stimulate economic growth within the constraints imposed
by the stabilization objectives. These constraints are reflected in the
overall size of the investment program and the financing pattern. Total fixed
investments amount to 16 percent of GDP for 1980 and 18 percent for 1985, of
which public investment will account for an average of 10 percent of GDP.
The financing foreseen for 1980-82 is consistent with the upper limits agreed
upon with the IMF and the Bank for domestic and foreign borrowing (in both
amounts and terms), and with the public savings objective. At this time,
about 27 percent of the financing remains to be found, and the Government
expects that roughly half of this will be on concessionary terms. Government
and parapublic enterprises will use commercial loans exclusively for directly
productive projects whose cash-flows can carry the debt service of such
loans.
81.        The achievement of even the modest growth objective of four percent
p.a. on average in the 1980s implies an ICOR of about four, which, although
high by most standards, would be a definite improvement over past performance.
Concentrating on the first three years (i.e., 1980 and the first two years of
the 6th Plan) the Government has ensured that the share of directly productive
1/   About 30,000 tons, based on millet price in a "normal" year.



- 25 -
sectors relative to infrastructural, social, and tertiary sector investments,
will increase from the past 43 percent to almost 55 percent. More importantly,
the Government (with technical assistance from the Association under Credit
No. 1061) will make every effort to ensure that systematic and uniform economic
and financial analysis of projects costing more than US$500,000 will lead to
better selection of investments. For example, the Government has identified
ten large projects, (equivalent to about 17 percent of the overall investment
program), whose economic returns appear prima facie marginal. These projects
will be subject to a thorough appraisal before any decisive steps are taken,
and projects with an economic return lower than the estimated opportunity cost
of capital will not be implemented.
Table 7: PUBLIC INVESTMENT I/
(July 1980-July 1985)
Proposed Five-
Year Program         Projects for Review
CFAF                             Amount
billion  Percent    Number  CFAF billion
Agriculture                      512        22          1         29
Industry                         685        29          3        160
Tourism                           93         4          1          24
Commerce                          15         -          -          -
Transport                        445        19          3          88
Telecommunications                89         4          1         49
Urban Investment                 205         9          -           -
Education and Health             198         8          1         50
Other                            117         5          -          -
Total                      2,359      100         10         400
1/   Includes last year of 5th Plan and the four years of the 6th Plan.
Also, in light of the poor overall response of the economy to higher invest-
ment levels in the early seventies, the Government has established a post-
evaluation unit in the Ministry of Planning from which it hopes to learn
practical lessons for the design of new projects.



- 26 -
Reforms in the Parapublic Sector
82.       The program calls, first, for a halt in expansion of the public
sector (already in effect), and a gradual withdrawal from the sector (Govern-
ment is seeking to return its participations in small- and medium-size enter-
prises to the private sector). Complementary efforts are underway to stream-
line procedures to be followed by private investors, especially foreign.
Second, the program introduces reforms in existing parapublic institutions,
with priority given to those in agriculture. All public enterprises will
operate on the basis of program-contracts ("contrats-plans"), which spell out
the medium-term objectives to be met by each enterprise, as well as the
respective financial obligations of the Government and of the enterprise.
These contracts will also contain the investment program for the enterprise,
including an appropriate financing plan, but will allow management enough
freedom to achieve desired objectives (e.g., in the field of pricing). During
fiscal year 1980/81, ten contracts are expected to be substantively established
for enterprises in public transportation, water and power supply, housing, and
agriculture.
83.       The proposed reform of agricultural agencies goes beyond a mere
administrative reform, and in fact, embodies a profound change in sector
policies. The central objectives are to give the farmers greater respon-
sibility in running their own affairs, and to reduce the cost of State
intervention. With this new approach, Government hopes to achieve greater
self-sufficiency in food, diversification of agricultural production and
improvement in farmers' incomes. 1/ Since the regional rural development
agencies 2/ are the only intermediaries for foreign-financed rural projects,
both Government and foreign donors attach high priority to restoring their
organizational and financial soundness. The recommendations of the studies
that have been undertaken in this field will, once reviewed, be worked into
the relevant program contracts. Each contract will contain staff reduction
plans, including a first tranche to be executed during the next fiscal year,
complemented with appropriate retraining and recycling programs.
84.       An important new task of the regional development agencies will
be to bring to fruition the system of independent farmers- cooperatives based
on "village sections". In a gradual, pragmatic manner, and counting on the
voluntary participation of farmers, much of the decision-making power con-
cerning purchase of inputs, acquisition of credit, and primary marketing of
1/   In related efforts, the Government (with Bank Group assistance and
financing) has prepared a project to reorganize and redirect the national
institution in charge of agricultural research (ISRA) towards providing
better coverage of the various climatic zones of Senegal, and towards
programs for improving research on farming systems rather than on
individual crops.
2/   Principally SAED, SODEVA, SODEFITEX, SOMIVAC.



- 27 -
products will be transferred to the village sections and reorganized coopera-
tives. During this process a diversified institutional set-up will prevail
until the eventual emergence of a decentralized cooperative structure. Since
adult literacy in villages is extremely low, various Government organizations
will lend their support to ensure the long-term autonomy of village sections
and to avoid the renewed risk of abuse by central bureaucracies.
85.       The Government is carrying out the reorganization of the State
cooperative system in a series of steps. In the last two years, Government
has given wide publicity to cases of mismanagement in ONCAD, setting the scene
for a major reform in 1980. Early this year, it limited ONCAD's functions to
the delivery of inputs, the repayment of agricultural credit, and the marketing
of groundnuts. ONCAD's monopoly in the millet trade was transferred to the
private sector and the rice monopoly to the Stabilization Fund, which also
operates through private traders. ONCAD was also officially discharged from
its "guiding" role for the cooperatives. In August 1980, Government suddenly
decided to liquidate ONCAD and gave notice of termination of employment to all
ONCAD staff. ONCAD's marketing functions will be assumed by the crushing
mills. The 1980/81 crop coming off the fields in December will be collected
under the new system, which will eventually provide for a clear division of
responsibility for the handling and transport losses that recently have grown
to excessive proportions. The Government has decided to transfer the supply
function and existing stocks of seeds and tools to a new company called
SONAR 1/ a much simpler organization without any monopoly rights, which would
carry out the gradual transition to a decentralized system involving the
private sector.          1
86.       In 1981, the Government will start pilot operations in the following
areas: (i) direct deliveiy of inputs by the suppliers to the cooperatives;
(ii) transfer of seed stocks from ONCAD to the village sections; and (iii)
direct supply of credit to the village sections. The first two tests will be
carried out under the Bank Group's Sine Saloum Agricultural Development
project as recently amended. 2/ The transfer of seed stocks is of particular
importance since the deterioration in quality of seeds treated and stored by
ONCAD has been a major contributing factor to poor crop results in recent
years. ONCAD used to supply farmers with their annual requirements of treated
seeds on an advance basis, for which 25 percent interest in kind over a
seven-month period was charged. The Government has already lowered this
charge to 12.5 percent, but it is expected that transfer of ownership of seed
stocks to the village sections will allow not only improved seed quality, but
also further reduction in costs as new treatment and storage techniques are
introduced. As a compensation for their involvement, the village sections
will receive a remuneration based on 8 percent of the producer price.
1/   Societe Nationale d'Approvisionnement Rural.
2/   Credit No. 549-SE and Loan No. 1113-SE.



- 28 -
87.       Regarding the uncovered debt of ONCAD to the banking system, esti-
mated at about CFAF 30 billion at end-1979 and CFAF 40 billion at end-1980,
the Government has asked external auditors to prepare the financial liquida-
tion statements, which should be ready by July 1981.
88.       After a three-year research program financed by the Association, it
was established that considerable savings could be achieved by changing the
formulae and techniques of fertilization. Government will make decisions in
this respect after review of the research results probably some time in
mid-1981. In the meantime the Government, as noted earlier, has agreed to
gradually reduce the subsidy on fertilizers from its current level of 60-70
percent of cost. The level of future subsidies will be determined on the
basis of a joint government/Bank Group review of the recommendations of the
fertilizer study. The subsidy on agricultural tools has been removed, except
for exports (para. 78).
89.       The problem of financial assistance to farmers in years of drought
will be resolved through profound changes in the CPSP and the agricultural
credit system. In August 1980, Government rescheduled outstanding farmers'
debts over a period of five years, and agreed to limit total annual debt
repayment to a maximum of 25 percent of a normal year's harvest. In parallel,
over the next two years, the Government will audit the cooperatives' member
accounts to assess farmers' debts, and will stop repayment levies on future
sales as soon as the old debt has been paid. Debt settlement will also
trigger the release of cooperatives' development funds currently blocked at
BNDS and the repayment to village sections of funds retained at the time when
production is marketed (approx. CFAF 3 per kg of groundnuts).
90.       In the new set-up, BNDS' functions will be considerably expanded.
This institution has agreed to start recording agricultural loans at the level
of individual farms or village sections, and to introduce downpayments and
personal liability for heavy equipment to avoid overloading the borrowing
capacity of the poorer village sections. Loan recovery will be reinforced by
restoring the link between marketing and production, and loan recording will
be improved at all levels with regular audits by BNDS at the end of each crop
season. A reorganization study on BNDS is underway to prepare it for carrying
out its new responsibilities.
91.       Government will also commission a study to systematically review
financial assistance to farmers in case of drought. Farmers by now are
perceiving debt cancellation of bad crops as an acquired right. The financial
burden of these debt cancellations weighs too heavily on the CPSP, and also,
indirectly on the Treasury and the banking system. Government will therefore
explore new approaches based on the STABEX revenues that normally become
available after a bad crop. To assure that CPSP would be in a position to
finance the remaining occasional stabilization payments without upsetting the
financial equilibrium, Government will carry out a study of the financial
requirements of CPSP, whose funds will be kept in a separate CPSP account with
the Central Bank, under the final responsibility of the Treasury.



- 29 -
B.   Evaluation of the Program
92.       The Government's program, as reflected in the Prime Minister's
Policy Statement, is clearly of a different scale and nature from past
actions, and holds out more promise of success in reviving the economy than
the stopgap measures that used to be implemented. But because the program is
so comprehensive, and in some respects quite bold, it is only prudent to
expect resistance from vested interests, difficulties in coordination, and
possible failures in implementation. And, as in the past, uncontrollable
factors will no doubt play a role: it is unfortunate, in this respect, that
the 1980 crops (especially groundnuts) are likely to again be, at best,
mediocre.
93.       As important as the breadth of the program, which covers almost
every segment of the economy, is the mutually supportive character of its
components. In the past, for example, attempts to control credit expansion
have failed because the major source of excessive credit demand, ONCAD,
had remained unaltered. Efforts to accelerate growth by raising the level of
investment have failed because of the poor quality of the investment program,
operational inefficiencies of the public agencies in charge of implementation,
and inadequate attention to the implications of more investment for the
government budget. Although serious efforts were made in the past to provide
better incentives to farmers, the benefits of higher nominal producer prices
have been largely wiped out by the direct and indirect costs of government
intervention, the provision of inputs, the extension and marketing systems.
And while the need to increase and diversify exports has long been recognized,
the whole incentive system, especially the exchange rate and the tariff
structure, has been biased towards encouraging sales on the domestic market,
and has penalized nontraditional exports.
94.       To a large extent these weaknesses and contradictions reflected the
uncoordinated nature of policy decision-making and the lack of central guidance
of the parapublic sector. While it will take time to change the deeply
entrenched habits in public administration, it is of great significance that
the Office of the Prime Minister has been assuming a much stronger leadership
and coordinating role in designing the program of economic recovery. It is
essential, of course, that it continues to do so in the implementation phase.
It is equally significant that the three ministries principally concerned--
Economy and Finance, Planning, and Rural Development--as well as the top
managers of the agricultural development agencies have been closely associated
in preparation of the program and in initiating appropriate action (the
Ministry of Finance has been playing a particularly active role).
95.       In implementing the program, the Government will be faced with a set
of potentially adverse factors: climatic, for obvious reasons; external,
because Senegal will remain a very open economy even if, as projected, the
share of imports in GDP declines from its extremely high levels of today;
social and political, because of the likely opposition from certain quarters
to the main goal of reducing consumption (in relative terms). The Government
is well aware of these facts, and they are the reasons why the program
realistically extends over a five-year period, and why its main macroeconomic
objectives (with respect to growth and the resource gap) may appear modest.



- 30 -
96.       The program nonetheless has some intrinsic limitations that may need
correction in due course. For example, the Government lacks appropriate
criteria for slowing down the growth of current expenditures. From a strictly
economic viewpoint, it is disputable if less current expenditure and more
capital expenditure is always desirable; or even more so, if reducing expendi-
tures on goods and services is "better" than reducing personnel expenditures.
The way the marketing of domestic cereals is dealt with reflects divergent
viewpoints (within and outside of Government): the Government wishes to
maintain a high degree of intervention (fixing prices, operating stocks,
regulating private traders, etc.), while there is good reason to believe that
the system is largely inoperative and potentially wasteful. Some measures
that should be approached with caution are, for example, those relating to
import tariffs and export subsidies. Theoretically, these measures are
insufficient in coverage (therefore may create distortions), in degree
(the "15 percent" and "10 percent" do not fully reflect the estimated
overvaluation), and in nature (an export subsidy on value added rather than
fob value would better achieve an incentive effect). Similarly, the system of
price controls is still too complex; whereas more decisive changes could have
been made in the composition of the investment program (linked to improved
quality). A similar criticism could be voiced regarding the adequacy of the
transitional system (e.g., SONAR) to replace ONCAD. However, it is too early
to pass judgement on these measures, all of which assume gradual progress.
97.       An outstanding issue related to the investment program concerns the
dams on the Senegal River, to be constructed by the OMVS. 1/ Government has
not included these investments in its program since funds available now cover
only part of the program, and no agreement between OMVS member countries and
foreign donors exists on a partial or phased implementation of the OMVS
investment program. If OMVS does move ahead, Government will include in its
debt service projections any related debt service, and an appropriate part of
this project in its investment program, while reducing other investments such
as highways so as not to inflate the overall program beyond the agreed
ceiling.
98.       The positive aspects, however, are, first, that all the actions
contained in the program are unambiguously in the right direction and con-
sistent with declared objectives; and, second, that in all areas where there
appears to be room for improvement (as illustrated above), the Government has
remained openminded. The various studies incorporated in the program are all
intended to eventually provide the basis for further changes if need be.
C.   Macroeconomic Projections
99.       While the years 1982 and 1983 will be mainly dedicated to sta-
bilization and recovery, Senegalese planners hope to maintain the 4 percent
1/   Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal.



- 31 -
rate of growth over the long term while introducing a stability measure
each year from 1984 onwards. In this respect it is clearly important that by
1985 and thereafter a slightly higher level of investment be achieved, and
that the shift toward directly productive investments and better project
selection be continued. Moreover, the planned reorganization of agricultural
institutions and improved price incentives for exports should contribute to
GDP growth without requiring much additional investment. If this is so, the
overall growth picture in historical perspectives will look as in the chart
below:            GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT
1960- 1985
GDP
-  P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
- ---  DP PROJECTION 
---.- POPULATION                                            /
t 69 t8862 18B4 1 GM 1968 19710 1972 t8974 1978 1978 t8980 1982 1984
YEAR
(l) Index of approximate population growth of 2.7 percent a year.
100.       The Government expects a reduction in the level of consumption from
close  to 100 percent in 1980 to 86 percent of GDP by 1985. I/  After a possible
initial fall in 1980 due to stabilization measures and unfavorable weather
conditions, this would be feasible without further reductions in per capita
1/   All figures in this section are expressed in 1970 prices.



- 32 -
consumption. It should be noted that the austerity effort to narrow the
resource gap to a sustainable level of some 6 percent of GDP by 1985 will have
to be carried out against an adverse trend in the terms of trade (resulting
inter alia from higher petroleum prices and opposite movements in world market
prices for exported groundnut products and imported cereals) equivalent to 3
percent of GDP. Expected changes in the structure of GDP are illustrated
below:
Table 8: RESOURCES AND USES, 1965-1985
(in percent of GDP, constant 1970
prices adjusted for terms-of-trade
variations)
Achieved                    Projected
1965-69  1970-79  1975-79       1980   1981   1985
GDP                               100       100       100         100    100    100
Less:  Consumption               93        89       92          96      90     86
Fixed investments         10       13        13          13     14      14
Stocks                     2        4         3           1      1       1
To compensate for
losses in terms
of trade                           -         1           2      3       4
Resource Gap                        5         6         9          12      8       6
P.m:  Domestic Savings             (7)      (11)       (7)        (2)    (7)    (9)
Note: All figures in this section are expressed in 1970 prices.
101.      Balance-of-payments projections are shown in Annex 1, pages 5-7.
The volume of exports is expected to grow at 4.9 percent a year between 1979
to 1985, as compared to 1.7 percent between 1970 and 1979. Not much improve-
ment is expected in Senegal's traditional exports, but substantial improve-
ments are projected to come from secondary exports such as fish (5.6 percent a
year) and manufactures (7.1 percent a year) as a result of export subsidies
and the planned phosphoric acid/fertilizer plant. At the same time, the share
of imports in GDP would be reduced from 42 percent in 1979 to 34 percent in
1985, the level prevailing during the mid-1970s. The growth in imports of
petroleum, semi-finished products and equipment goods cannot be substantially
reduced without threatening growth, but possibilities exist for reducing
imports of consumer goods, in particular after the 5 percent annual volume
increase in food imports experienced between 1970 and 1978. 1/ In addition,
1/   Food imports in 1979 were much higher due to a previous drought.



- 33 -
in the medium term, imports will decline as a result of the additional 10
percent duty on imports in effect since 1979. The other current balance-of-
payments transactions are expected to show a constant surplus, with steadily
growing tourist and shipyard revenues resulting from ongoing investments, as
well as workers- remittances compensating for steep increases in interest
payments on public debt.
102.      In the 1980-82 period, about US$37 million a year in grants and
US$150 million a year in soft loans will be required to maintain the forecast
flow of disbursements of project-related concessionary funds. In addition,
Senegal will need an average amount of commercial borrowing of about US$80
million during fiscal years 1980/81 and 1981/82, increasing to about US$270
million by 1984/85. Based on these capital flows, the foreign debt service
can be kept at below 15 percent of projected exports. Non-project-related
exceptional aid is tentatively projected as follows:
Table 9:   DISBURSEMENTS OF EXCEPTIONAL AID 1980-82
(in millions of US dollars) 1/
1980         1981         1982
Capital Aid                                  204            60          n.a.
World Bank                                  15            45          n.a.
STABEX                                      35            65 2/         -
France                                     104 3/        n.a.         n.a.
Short-term OPEC loan                        50           -50            -
Balance of Payments Assistance                97            55           69
IMF gross                                  101            64           88
Repayments 4/                                4             9           19
Total Exceptional Aid                        291           115           69
1/   Some unfavorable preliminary reports on the 1980/81 crop are not yet
taken into account; if confirmed, exports may be US$150 million below
the projections, partly compensated by a new STABEX allocation.
2/   STABEX allocation of US$101 million less US$36 advance from France.
3/   Including US$36 million advance on the 1981 STABEX allocation.
4/   Bank estimates.
If all these inflows were on Eurodollar terms, the foreign debt service
ratio would reach in 1985 about 27 percent, a level that lenders would
probably find unacceptable, thus precluding such borrowing in the first
place. With the exceptional aid projected above, the deterioration in net
foreign assets will be limited to a fall from minus US$319 million at end-1979
to minus US$441 million at end-1982, with an increasing share being financed



- 34 -
by the IMF. Debt service will fall temporarily from 18 percent of export
earnings in 1980 to about 11 percent in 1983; it will tend to increase again
once this program of exceptional aid is completed.
Creditworthiness
103.      With the crisis, Senegal's creditworthiness has become an issue.  If
the program were to fail, the Government would have little choice but to: (i)
reduce the level of investment; (ii) lower producer prices for groundnuts to
raise Government's net receipts from the sector; (iii) introduce quantitative
import controls, excepting food, to lower the current account deficit; or (iv)
any combination of the three measures. Such action could improve the balance-
of-payments position in the short run, but would certainly weaken prospects
for reasonable long-term growth and creditworthiness.
104.      Senegal's creditworthiness is enhanced by the arrangements of the
monetary union to which it belongs, to the extent that the system ensures free
convertibility 1/ of the CFA franc at a fixed exchange rate to the French
franc. Correspondingly, the Government's access to Central Bank credit is
strictly limited, and while short-term variations of foreign reserves are
inconsequential for any one country of the union, and to a large extent for
the union as a whole, it is BCEAO's responsibility to maintain the union's
foreign reserves over the long run. If the union's reserves fall beyond
prescribed limits and, a fortiori if they become negative as is currently
the case, the Central Bank will restrict credit availability especially in
member countries that are running deficits on their external accounts, Senegal
being clearly a case in point. The creditworthiness of Senegal depends,
therefore, in the first place on the Government-s ability to raise the local
currency needed for its foreign debt service payments; particularly in times
of credit restrictions, this will force the Government to impose strict
budgetary discipline. However, member countries could postpone adjustment of
their budgetary policies through additional foreign borrowing, building up
debt service obligations that, at a later stage, could no longer be met. The
government program and the agreement under the IMF Extended Facility are
intended to avoid such an occurrence. In the meantime, considering the
Government's program and the situation of the monetary union as a whole, the
country is creditworthy for Bank Group lending but on somewhat softer terms
than in the past.
PART III - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
History
105.      During the Bank Group's Annual Meetings of 1978, the delegation of
Senegal enquired about the possibilities of program lending to Senegal, and
1/   Technically, free convertibility into French francs; convertibility with
non-franc currencies is in turn regulated by the foreign exchange regime
of the franc area which has been quite liberal for many years now.



- 35 -
invited a Bank team to help draft an economic program for the country. A
Bank mission visited Senegal in November/December 1978 and made recommenda-
tions relating to macro-planning investments, public savings, foreign debt
management, export incentives, the financial relationships with the para-
public sector, and related matters. In July 1979, the Minister of Finance
visited Washington to discuss these recommendations, and agreement was
reached on several key issues. Along the lines of this agreement, Government
produced the economic rehabilitation plan, which was eventually approved by
the National Assembly in December 1979. At that moment, it had become clear
that 1980 would show a very serious balance-of-payments deficit as a result
of a set of specific negative circumstances, and Government requested an IMF
Extended Fund Facility. The proposed structural adjustment operation was
appraised in March 1980; negotiations started in Dakar in September 1980 and
were concluded in Washington in October 1980.
Cooperation with IMF 1/
106.      In 1974, Senegal drew its gold tranche with the Fund.  In 1975,
Senegal received a total of US$30 million from the DIF oil facilities,
followed in 1978 and 1979 by drawings on the Trust Fund of, respectively,
US$18 million and US$32 million. After the 1977/78 drought, the Fund assisted
the Government to overcome the balance-of-payments problems with US$27 million
drawings on the compensatory facility, followed in late 1979 by a US$12
million standby arrangement in the first credit tranche. During implementa-
tion of the programs in the framework of these drawings, the Government
achieved improvements in fiscal policies; the monetary authorities were
however far less successful in containing credit expansion within the agreed
limits. In August 1980, the IMF Board approved an Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) amounting to US$243 million (SDR 184.8 million), including US$166
million from the supplementary facility. Maximum drawings until February 15,
1981 have been set at US$71 million to be drawn in three tranches, with
subsequent tranches totalling US$102 million until June 30, 1982, and US$70
million in the following fiscal year. In addition, during 1980, the remaining
US$2.8 million of the first credit tranche was drawn, and towards the end of
the year, US$27.6 million drawings on the compensatory facility are expected.
During preparation of the Extended Fund Facility and the proposed Structural
Adjustment Loan/Credit, cooperation between the IMF and the Bank was very
close and involved joint discussions in the field with the Senegalese
authorities.
107.      Although the intervention of the Fund and that of the Bank Group now
proposed is based on the same government program, the two agencies have
different emphases in their respective agreements with Government, and in
their monitoring program. The performance criteria agreed upon with the IMF
for the phased drawings on the EFF are in the areas of domestic credit, the
overall deficit on central government operations, and foreign borrowing, as
summarized in the following paragraph.
1/   See details in Annex VI.



- 36 -
108.      Government has agreed to improve the balance-of-payments situation
by keeping monetary expansion below the rate of increase in nominal GDP. To
achieve this objective, during 1980 total domestic credit of the banking
system will be allowed to expand at an annual rate of 8 percent according to
an agreed monthly program. The credit ceiling for 1981 is being reviewed in
light of the size of the 1980/81 crop and the balance-of-payments situation.
The Government has committed itself to gradually reduce the overall deficit in
central government operations from CFAF 8 billion at the end of the first
quarter of FY81 to a surplus of CFAF 4 billion at the end of the fourth
quarter (July 1, 1981). This overall surplus will be reflected in a corres-
ponding decrease in the sum of new government borrowing from the domestic
banking system, payment arrears of the Treasury, accounts of correspondents,
and similar arrangements. Foreign public borrowing with maturities from one
to twelve years will be limited to CFAF 16 billion from July 1, 1980 to June
30, 1981, and within this ceiling borrowing with maturities from one to five
years will be limited to CFAF 2 billion.
109.      Beyond these three performance criteria, the program under the
EFF includes new price and wage policies, an increase in import duties, and
the introduction of export premiums. These measures are also part of the
Policy Statement of the Government, (attached as Annex IV).
STABEX
110.      Senegal has been one of the main beneficiaries of the European
Common Market STABEX fund under the Lome conventions. This fund aims at
stabilizing the revenues from certain specific exports from the associated
developing countries to the Common Market, by giving compensatory payments
to the governments of countries that suffer from a drop in each of the export
items covered by the convention. The repayment obligation of STABEX alloca-
tions depends on the country's ability. After the bad 1977/78 crop, Senegal
received US$88 million in STABEX allocations, and in 1980 it may receive an
advance of US$35 million, with a further estimated US$65 million to come in
1981 depending on the Common Market's import figures of groundnut products in
1980. STABEX funds have no predetermined destination, but Government intends
to use part of them to finance cancelled farmers' debts, and part for its
public investment program.
Cooperation with France
111.      Since Independence, France has provided increasingly large amounts
of financial and technical assistance to Senegal, amounting to US$44 million
a year equivalent in grants and US$14 million in loans, at terms of roughly
5.5 percent interest and 12 years' maturity. Technical assistance is pre-
dominantly for secondary and university education. The French Government has
recently agreed to a Senegalese request for exceptional aid. The first
tranche of this assistance will total about US$104 million (CFAF 21.5 billion)
to be disbursed in 1980. Out of this package, an amount of US$36 million
(CFAF 7.5 billion) originating from the French Treasury is given as a one-
year advance on the expected STABEX allocation related to the bad 1979/80



- 37 -
crop; US$19 million (CFAF 4 billion) from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) is intended to consolidate part of the Government's debt
to the private sector; another US$49 million (CFAF 10 billion) from the CCCE
is to help finance the capital budget, including some government contributions
to Bank Group projects. A possible second tranche, the size of which has not
yet been determined, may help finance ongoing agricultural reforms and
payments arrears to the French Treasury of Senegalese counterparts for French
technical assistance. The short-term Treasury loan is interest-free, and the
US$19 million loan from the CCCE bears a 7.5 percent a year interest with 15
years' maturity, of which 5 years' grace; the US$49 million loan for the
capital budget is on market terms (14 percent interest). The French
authorities have contributed to the agricultural reform program through
field work, jointly with the Bank/IDA.
Loan/Credit Objectives
112.      The objective of the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
would be to support the Government's efforts in carrying out its medium-
term economic rehabilitation program as described in Part II of this report,
and particularly the actions spelled out in the Government's Policy Statement
attached to the letter from the Prime Minister to the President of the Bank
Group (attached as Annex IV). Foreign exchange proceeds from the proposed
Loan/Credit would help avoid the imposition of severe quantitative import
controls and deflationary measures that would reduce productive investment, as
well as too abrupt cuts in consumption by all social groups, including the
poorer segments of the population.
113.      In view of the magnitude of the task ahead, as measured by the
size of the current account deficits of 1979-80, and as evidenced by the
list and the nature of the institutional reforms to be undertaken, the pro-
posed Loan/Credit should be regarded as only a part of the total external
financial effort required. First, the proposed Loan/Credit would be com-
plementary to the financing made available by the Fund, France and STABEX,
representing about 11 percent of the total external financing package.
Exceptional aid from other sources, though less directly related, is also part
of the global effort; this is particularly the case for food aid from EEC (to
be determined) and from USAID (US$35 million over five years). Second, the
Bank/IDA has conceived the proposed Loan/Credit as a first operation, to be
followed by others in coming years, beginning in FY83. It is expected that
the balance-of-payments gap for the next two years, although very much reduced,
will not be covered by project aid and normal non-project aid (essentially the
financial cost of technical assistance); it could again become very large if
the 1980/81 groundnut crop is as low as presently predicted, 1/ or as a result
of other external factors such as further substantial oil price increases.
1/   Pre-harvest estimates are at about half the size of a "normal" crop
of I million tons.



- 38 -
114.      The results of the Government's recovery program that will be
implemented over 1980-85 will take time to materialize in full. In particular
in the agricultural sector, details of the proposed policies still have to be
worked out by the Government. The intended change from a centralized state
cooperative system to a more decentralized system in which farmers' initia-
tive plays the dominant role, will need to be monitored carefully, and should
be introduced in steps to incorporate the lessons from pilot operations such
as those being carried out under the recently redesigned Sine Saloum Project.
115.      The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit would set the reform
process in motion according to a detailed time schedule, thus creating a
momentum whose maintenance would be made possible by further Loans or Credits
of this type. Specifically, this first operation would help the Government
handle the current public finance and balance-of-payments crises, and would
assist in structural adjustment in the four areas covered by government
programs: fiscal and monetary; prices and incentives; investment programs;
and institutions and policies in the agricultural sector. The need for a
possible second operation would be assessed on the basis of progress made
under the program, and the findings and recommendations of studies to be
undertaken under this first operation.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
116.      The proposed IDA Development Credit for the equivalent of 22.9
million SDR (US$30 million equivalent) and the proposed Bank Loan of US$30
million would both be made to the Government. The Credit would be on standard
terms; the loan would be repaid over 20 years including a grace period of 5
years. The equivalent in CFA francs of the proceeds from the Credit and the
Loan (other than those serving to pay for short-term consultants directly),
would be deposited in the Government's project account at the Senegalese
branch of BCEAO in Dakar upon withdrawal of proceeds from the Credit and the
Loan Accounts (draft Development Credit Agreement and draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02). The Government would authorize its Central Bank to act as its
representative for presenting withdrawal requests from the Credit and the Loan
(draft Development Credit Agreement and draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.09).
117.      The proposed Loan/Credit would finance: (i) Senegals imports,
except for those listed in the Annex to Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement
and Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, as noted in para. 119
(US$59 million); and (ii) studies to be undertaken as specified in Annex IV
(US$1 million). These studies, which would complement those to be financed
under the Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning
(Credit No. 1061-SE of October 27, 1980) would include about 50 man-months of
consultants' services. The base cost of consultants would amount to about
US$13,000 per man-month. The total Loan/Credit amount of about US$60 million
equivalent is expected to be disbursed over the period ending December 31,
1981.
Procurement and Disbursement
118.      The Credit and the Loan would be disbursed against full documenta-
tion. The Credit and Loan would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange
cost of eligible imports (US$59 million), and 100 percent of the cost of



- 39 -
studies. Import contracts of public agencies above US$5 million equivalent
will be subject to international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. Other imports which will represent the bulk of disbursements
will be processed through ordinary trade channels. A special account would be
established at the Central Bank to facilitate disbursements from the Loan and
Credit. EsLablishment of this account would be a condition of effectiveness
(draft Development Credit Agreement and draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
The amount of US$10 million, which is about equivalent to one and a half
months of imports eligible for financing under the Loan/Credit, would be
deposited in the special account upon effectiveness of the Loan and Credit
Agreements. On receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures paid out of
the special account were eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Credit, the special account would be replenished through further
disbursements (draft Development Credit Agreement and draft Loan Agreement,
Section 2.02(b)-(f)).
119.      Imports not eligible for financing would be: (a) goods financed
or agreed to be financed from any other source; (b) goods processed under
invoices of less than US$1,000; (c) petroleum products, armaments, foodstuffs
and other consumer goods with a luxury nature (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule
1, para. 4, and Annex to Schedule 1, and draft Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 1). The studies will be carried out by consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory
to the Association and to the Bank (draft Development Credit Agreement and
draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
120.      The Loan/Credit proceeds to finance eligible imports would be
disbursed in two tranches as follows:
a)   a first tranche of US$40 million would be available immediately
after effectiveness of the Loan and Credit Agreements;
b)   a second tranche of US$20 million would be available during the
remainder of calendar year 1981, subject to: (i) implementation
of the measures regarding import duties and export premiums; (ii)
adoption of an investment program for the VIth Plan in line with
agreed policies; and (iii) in general, satisfactory progress
on other components of the government program as assessed by the
Bank/IDA after joint review with the Government before March 31,
1981 (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(d), and draft
Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 2(f)).
121.      The Government intends to use the counterpart funds of the Loan/
Credit for development expenditures of the parapublic enterprises, primarily
in the agricultural sector, that will have entered into, or taken steps to
enter into agreements (program contracts) with the Government, relating, inter
alia, to the medium-term objectives of the enterprise, its operational program
including a five-year staffing and investment plan, its annual budget and
medium-term projections of operating and capital expenditures, and to the



- 40 -
Government's financial obligations to support this program. The Government
would furnish information, to the Bank/IDA, at least on a quarterly basis, on
the utilization of these counterpart funds (draft Development Credit Agreement
and draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(b)).
Monitoring
122.      Attached in Annex V, Appendix 1 to the present report is a calendar
of important dates prepared jointly with the Senegalese authorities. The
chart on the following page (P. 41) provides a matrix of economic issues to be
addressed, the actions already undertaken by Government, further actions
planned together with dates for their implementation, and the actions which
the Bank Group (and the IMF) will monitor.
Public Finances
123.      The Bank/IDA would monitor:  (i) the level of net public savings
which has an agreed minimum target of 15 percent of public investments in
1980/81; and (ii) the policy measures as proposed to increase this to 25
percent by 1984/85. The Bank/IDA would also monitor that no new government
participations in existing enterprises be bought beyond the existing arrange-
ments, and that Government limit loans and advances to private and parapublic
enterprises to about the low level achieved in 1979/80; the exception would
apply to agreed upon special financing, such as working capital funds for
specific enterprises with which Government will conclude program contracts.
Furthermore, the Bank/IDA would monitor progress made in restructuring of
Government's sinking fund 1/ and would expect to receive a prospective annual
report before June 30, 1981 that would demonstrate that management of foreign
debt has been consistent with establishing in future a maximum ratio of
foreign debt service of 15 percent of export earnings. The Bank/IDA would
also follow the allocation of sufficient resources to the sinking fund, as
has been agreed, and that these funds will be held in a special account to be
opened with the Central Bank.
Investment Program
124.      The Bank/IDA would monitor the extent to which Government moves
toward applying systematic cost/benefit analysis for projects larger than
US$500,000 in the investment plan in the framework of the recently approved
Technical Assistance project for Economic and Financial Planning, and the
application of economic selection criteria as spelled out in the Government's
Policy Statement. During formal annual consultations with the Government, the
Bank/IDA would monitor modifications in the investment program to ensure that
the intended shift toward directly productive projects will be achieved, and
that investment will remain below the agreed limits. As far as financing of
the investment program is concerned, the Bank/IDA would particularly monitor
Government's compliance with its commitment not to use commercial funds for
projects or public enterprises that could not pay the debt service charges
from their own cash flow.
1/   Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement.



- 0ai -
('AP- 1:   KAraIP 'P HEASNTES RiaARDIW. STRUCI0PAL ADJJSTiaI( IR SE0EGA0
Oman Ep-oWnpo   Problems                     Oaap-a--a Ae ennt M--o,e- TAa-n                                                           A-re-s un- Measur-s (-niapnd                            Pt]  1(a   a
I0AIa.Sigrh eooaanoi  geaI.IzaoO        _-feling re  ii rp r  fr-cettiai                 - rnnao--:crct to-aa ioonnfRs-aO(r5Yof    1   alirea-a  On slare n           ooi   etypro-      -a'raaa'-nevnOAcriln                              opearI  9; ( -'apneerP----ruoi(a s-p'a
-rlroauiv         falnnnnsots         ipnpatto            - gr'0s                       -a-co   nmi pro*anm cnnatai ing                (a-aires in I ttn- ts ir        b  C^         - rrPai-etio  On  nsa Or 5S- of  en-est -         amnh Pa     A  'iol -02   p(   a  f\
- ioneesnAs   Aspaodennn oaz fore  0               re  LioT_o, n-e produdtio-nc-eor ted            to 5.9 of toT L                                meatSn to e 0   asa      a proda  0 'PeaiRs    case-ration-  int  na-l   iAat -
ns  ng                                           ar-atnat plot (samaner 1979)                2. Ceiling on noverl na 2 pqolio  ee       -R--.cosLeonfiOa(  lysis a fr rli p-n.'ears (9  V            .3 -   -a "B       , apdor.bi - -d 5 i
pepts for Ith FlAn on,-   M500, OO -rni   m                                 lltitn aaIn'a0         aa            roR TA  -oje-
3. Pstbi late       P  pro,ect  Anen   _ 5            rci--    ri-a-
4. 1t nt   ooati- os ijn- m   -- of t  -tl
psrd t,o iosa.tpent  Iev             - .,aoe liquir  oroan  .00 OR                    - fina a    of -omnt-p-rt f-os to              5. 15L of pphlic iOn-ts.n.s to b- toioo-   -priaa    Adern               oar-naaoof               a       o 981  -        an be  Raeo
Tvrorzspi L          verrn.o-  ens               fo.eig   p roJent  aeom oIne savings or        ced from pet p-olin svionss    1980/811  I (0o e1g t ex'-nn                                                            i  AOm o ana.  p-o-
-sn If t'- ao                                    oRhe- se-ne  -our-c  i-   1980/81           8. n%  qf ora    in in-et-ent toIbe fI-                                                            --ste  1i'zitget no IprnF    aith
-  Atk ,f -q -nrnrpmrt fi.mnAa fOc                 48dget                                          ,-er ina et pn,bli pensa    a-el0     ,                                                         0lsO     Vgspsroprgf.-       nfllp  Ir
n-igc-fi--n oad aarac                                                                                                                                                                           ovnu. A onds 470000-tin l-at tae.s
-OhiknenfeigrnetOsaa(ronnn                         e- i- a-a-a-tOE -oaO-nntig  e- . 9.. 9      7.  a         Ioanon aaaoarnn   anrrnninA        -           fo deAA   --aoi-e   - rtinoon-nan -eeaRel951  -aniR a
-lalsoLaia     l of   neficit iA  panesn-     e  d-o nonoseeci toreeZiongonisoienns              rsd-ed . 7 1_5      n rpof-   naniongs knd
sent's a 5020   faond in  9981                 tbatnaRnnot ftt-ao- toe debt pervice            o            , ntin n0d   e-  R'at Lev-
bodge                                          feo  thenir qvo  ac-h f-on                    -esr--aroion  otnieraa   nam
Privntsnseatoro
-ivaZt  star.rtion  iaa l        o  at" ia        -osin       f hon`sisAbadkpatcoly            9.bs,n annof hiSgh inteet ....aa na,
tLa priLrte lea1. -                            basd -  n '  - ingi t ffo-t af nnl-            cct fionten  Oar  ountO        L
-_ac naeive nan  a' creala ai oter                 dtte faIor lans (1579)                     10. All  oaiti ... a   et -   -a-nI
Pgmea       eprantesaaa                          icascaoftanstress                 te a- inber 3                 a1 979 tn gn-rb  e AvSie - -
Op   p-a cne .aye poO                          to  maroAn prOon ty sntcors
III. Yrhw  di5Itnrt.0:--
-      -ae itaIlnn -acmprd-r prne        o-                                             i,a   fns s  ppi-er as of                   13. StuApoa freemmeant  Rad jan 000               - c       O-n'va-O                               ann  iava  - d5a-s10      aTap  -    ^ a l-
gMy  198                                        sora      a  asqOoia
-ioii00          bAti-  i of  ma-nnaei-      1p. stda   aaati- a   lteiac    pa iny f-o        -anI el      f   itndy                           l         0-l., 1E-  rnanl piaeaoop    tl
oo  ... i o ist  b ,    nrp -t ncAtiln-e       m"Pa,t  roaps
13. StillA -n ohmgimg f-tili-ier c on-- -eesn           aofstOp                                    l.krcr: 190   3-,on taaiti-ons
aiti.r and o-i-a
-       aa -canOmsdsnexhargetc e    - Oa,   oro,ia- ona   a  5                       -Ila.Libatio. ofP  Sport I- enIe--ept             rtinmo nimoispr- r. dttn                        a _ l aaaotiva                                aL-ah laa  -arelaee s--rror  -Ran
cxporta  O eaadOoso  and pisoomp-ts                                                   15  in ie,asem           - n-n -npo a    aas      -          to U,,                                 ono-r-esmI          n  a-  a-   t ... - o
n i1  9                                         0l9 to :5
- fiscas  reforn  on 1979                   1i. SiOatasau    f      -aata a   a ieam           -  esal at r  aIm                               l-k  091  -envier imp_rentatno  of firsL
7iihncra-  b- ia dlltd-e irw-  -  to             Livee                                                                                         '-stnm     I due f -Ilc impr.    d-.vy/eq ort
tat nn  .fOpo   19800                                                                                                                         0 Rn i   tra yt-
-oaaamer prines                    -too  high  --tnaop -                            -a nl -Oatton nsOs-nidiled  br-a food   1. laa-O- Afn            s  a pniaa aaoRrna            -     - dea-b-r  at8C
,pices 197i-10 -a)
IV.  Isaane- an in pseanPblin              - nones sOs  bsnO  -cr,1it cnd TPcen...         - no- -t aR aa-paeeoripeoioa   olicy ia   13. 2stitn at sam  pt-apii, matioitaie
sePtor                                   drtncs                                         1977                                            ao abs pi-ast  asotnr
-t -eap Icie        p or . IannbLiO   etnteaiasa                                              ]9. PrsaponafaaPivtndtrq ni,ngof                  -a       v   eta                                sLp -Ti- nd t-ongh TA   -ja t
-  o Ir ra  pen  tnnaaso  o  o:rer                                                            mmaaes'ss anoz Eonnonnoan
T-aaa a. r  poor nArd otate                  2:2. P-tin eaneran-, aes   noGerpmeno             -tastier aedamtetof'pr-grts                      Jar. 00  it81 - tntotl oL' _O - foar-
gerantssa on Oant  nredAs drasti- -"d P-anpubli,nsae,ri-as                                    nonReants                                      aanraontonbe-nra   o ar
sally rs ed  ia 197-9                                                                                                                        prettis   naaaoo0             0 pea a.
a n. tonaanasss ininsoittatnna          -            seannftd on   1esanra-a n  --   1on  -     teesion nf soat  foe supply of        01. Teats nIlO  n apesne  sn            tre        - test s ..   et alowl nros                      0On aRI-    - first d-OR   on   o         -at
ssamp in       -Irtl-nlal sen-or       0 a"tmno.no  aad  hig}l                          Agilt-l  .Pn.,s                                 Osetd on -Plia  e    nrouos  anop
_ fsno.roa disaontts a                          -             i00020 pu0 On . liq,uidpOi- -no      -Weaa     _--o i a  0p.  nt  pIli-s
-  lactoofno crle 1      p,t p,ty of f  einm       0  arIa,  trtafonu  cn notine of                ta  _en  s_onr )
aid                                              a-rcn anatmr3tn                           ?? P.oeeorganatioi-a ofnreasearc          ~         nnanIinomtAoaenn--h  -ng,,tiation  -d lce s:81
-pasoutino  isn tes chnr es of nentrr2                                                           resean   pea eronec
easmeens-t of grptd-nt aseds f q
259    10.53  f n sef e a-d    a
-excessiv   tea softarersaa        -r--aa-rrat'ny        ioaepns-s.ar   .       r                                   t3.t-Aoieaoion anaudiT f  t -estg ialeal a S Sowmaa             000            nit51     taOR t 5-c   of
tgricultuaa'alAoncies                           dena                                            knrrnnsa 6asy9temvofnneeontven                                                                   Pi --a a-a t actlre cou - 000
24.       ealpo  of OfCAy's fio noir  laiu-i    - POanai  sttosme Ra                                 nn  198i   - Javiaip Aa or aePLi) et -
PO ao d,       ren      I  -narittlYnoala  :aeAef tOpAa                                           am9"   ana
-n.nvomgaeniapnfosoion(nnsai        -pog--naa  nvoo            Oe- ,o'- -nn tn         Ds- alaOP-         ottIiaPa?am
It R   ngtI-nin  If u ' i- cI.bt tYte          -  r     -r  n,tt a        IV b 'etVe   oePet    Dcmb         8      us.eO  2  r4P
dAvslonFen-  apsa Os                           dnd Pgriaa  lOarnl  IeIa  c-ntPaine            nnoaet agegr at. 000 -t
oenatsaa 0nd OOlOOo  - on0 ren t n       -    Junae iO, 191 - 2 n-e  ro33 Pooar
C7Ar f    -n oa-trp- -   If P-nam-n   ai ,
ativitis .and iaarssot-L  proore-,
P7. Stndiss os te Pin tinta  of thO              -_ Tetuit   f stdyn                               05 rao   n  - 00 onnanon
prnce sOnOi}nnolpn fasPa
VT. D etaibi lid  -nn  Oat td             - to aI  '  0'5 br e A       8san               - m-o a a           0 -      lan   On icna-   29. 2liasi  -r 11 bA ,d            Os- 1,finit
mOose                       eaaaetooalanO.a~~~i.1  i  tsa,, 7   pa         o)    at  oaI-e---ara ,nkn
o, oat t On                                       ai  anAtnoqf  OOlvAaa tex                 37  ro  as-l onenon     a  oroAIdit-rs o
privilees- i. 1979                            ma  eriala  tnd 0p-li-a
31. rap-nt nf To,' ...    c. rs
32. ampe-eedm_ota-, -p1
a'- 'mne0h21' opsia  tOiaps les-ding
ofeetemb   30, 19791
.v3- 210, 109
Oorrensno 2, oI98



- 42 -
Prices and Incentives
125.      The Bank/IDA and IMF would jointly monitor the effective increase of
basic import duties ("droits de douane") to 15 percent as decreed in August
1980. The Bank/IDA would monitor: (i) experience with the export subsidy for
the five test products (para. 75) during fiscal year 1980/81; and (ii) the
studies which Government is planning to undertake to determine the final
modalities of this system, including the level of incentives, by June 30,
1983, to ensure that the system will not create economic distortions or a new
net burden on the budget.
Institutional Reforms
126.      The Bank/IDA would monitor the establishment of program contracts
with the parapublic enterprises; the substance of two contracts with enter-
prises in the agricultural sector is expected to be determined by December 31,
1980, and two others by June 30, 1981. The Bank/IDA would closely follow the
schedule of studies, tests and government decisions regarding agricultural
institutions as indicated in the Government's Policy Statement, and would
monitor implementation of the agricultural price policies adopted by the
Government, through continued annual consultations. Progress in reorganiza-
tion of the agricultural institutions would be monitored through close screen-
ing of the draft program contracts which would be submitted to the Bank/IDA
for comments, and also through normal project supervision, since the institu-
tions involved are all closely linked to ongoing Bank/IDA-financed projects.
127.      The Government would furnish the Bank/IDA with reports containing
information required to monitor implementation of its rehabilitation program,
in preparation of the annual review of progress to be carried out jointly by
the Government and the Bank/IDA; the first of these reviews will take place
not later than March 31, 1981, fifteen months after the Prime Minister's
presentation of the Rehabilitation Plan in the National Assembly in December
1979 (draft Development Credit Agreement and draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.06(b)).
Risks and Uncertainties
128.      As noted in Part II of this report, the ambitious scope of the
Government's program, the radical character of some of the reforms (notably
removal of ONCAD from the national scene), and the seriousness of the present
crisis itself, involve more than one sort of risk for the program and, by the
same token, for the proposed structural adjustment operation. These are the
uncertainties inherent in Senegal's natural environment, and the vulnerability
of its economic structure, which may adversely affect its economic performance.
129.      Technical risks stem from the program's complexity requiring, in
turn, an unusual degree of coordination among ministries and public agencies,
and a no less unusual degree of determination on the part of political
leaders, civil servants and managers. The calendar of specific actions,
pilot projects and studies, and the need to carefully monitor progress will
no doubt strain the administrative capacity of several branches of government.
Delays are a real possibility on more than one front--more so, perhaps,
in the planned reforms of agricultural agencies than in any other area.



- 43 -
130.      Social risks are implicit in the impact of changes resulting from
measures in the areas of fiscal, price, investment and agricultural policies
that aim at improving conditions in the rural areas while restraining urban
consumption. A corollary is, therefore, the possible erosion of the present
consensus around the government program because of the opposition of the urban
elite and trade unions.
131.      The mere existence of two opposition parties creates its own
political risk.  However, in a candid evaluation of the Government's program,
at least some of the most vocal political opponents would readily recognize
the policy changes which they themselves have been demanding for several
years. To that extent, support for the program can be expected to extend
beyond the Party in power. Greater than the risks entailed with the program
and the proposed operation, however, would be those associated with a policy
of wait-and-see or one of fragmented or partial reforms. And at least as
damaging as a passive attitude on the part of the Government would be a
situation where the program now under implementation would find insufficient
support from the aid community.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
132.      The Bank Group has had 47 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding funds amount to US$285.5 million, including 25 IDA credits, 14 Bank
loans, three blends of Bank and IDA funds, four IFC operations, and one
blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of October 31, 1980, and notes on
the implementation of ongoing projects. Physical execution of these pro-
jects is progressing reasonably well, although some operations are affected
by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing
difficult public finance situation, as well as by lack of qualified local
staff for key positions. But institutional bottlenecks in several sectors
constitute the largest obstacle to efficient project implementation.
133.      The Government is well aware of the need to reduce delays caused
by these problems, and particularly of the importance of assuring good
management supervision of projects in all sectors. In this respect, the
ongoing Parapublic Sector Technical Assistance Project initiates and
implements measures necessary to resolve on a sectorwide basis some of the
issues regarding the financial management and government control of public
enterprises and mixed companies, particularly those that are channels for
Bank Group assistance. The project, now at its halfway stage, is progress-
ing reasonably well after a difficult start due to problems in recruiting
consultants and with the quality of project management, but it is still too
early to assess the impact of its substantive components.
134.      In addition, the Government created in late 1978 an Inter-minis-
terial Committee (Comite de Relance des Investissements - CRI) which works
closely with foreign aid donors, to expedite preparation of new investment



- 44 -
projects, and to identify bottlenecks in project execution and take remedial
action. The work of this committee has already begun to produce some
positive results, and would be strengthened under the recently approved
Technical Assistance Project through reinforcement of its secretariat.
135.      The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1977-81 will stay at around 12 percent, of which roughly 54
percent in IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed
debt was 18 percent in 1979, and will (after falling slightly in 1980-83)
slowly start to surpass that level, reaching about 25 percent in 1985. The
Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase from 3.7
percent in 1980 to about 4.9 percent in 1985, a rise which is mainly due to
the increase in Bank loans from 32 percent of the Bank Group's total out-
standing and disbursed funds to Senegal to about 42 percent by 1985.
136.      The Bank Group's project financing and economic and sector work,
which is designed to support the Government's development strategy, has five
main objectives. First, priority continues to be given to rural development,
including development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region,
rainfed agriculture in the well-watered southern regions of the country,
intensification of groundnut production and diversification ilnto new crops and
new regions, national projects for improvement of agricultural research and
for reforestation, and a Small Rural Operations Project which was approved by
the Executive Directors in FY80. Agricultural lending over the next few years
is expected to account for about one-third of the total, which is only slightly
below previous lending levels in this sector. Second, the Bank Group has
supported diversification of the economy by lending to the growing industrial
sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de
l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance company estab-
lished with Bank Group assistance in 1974, and through an ongoing project
for development of tourism infrastructure. Third, Bank Group projects have
supported modernization and expansion (where economically desirable) of the
country's infrastructure. In the recent past, a Second Aviation Project was
approved in FY79 and a Fourth Highway Project in FY80. An engineering
project approved in FY79 finances studies and technical assistance for water
supply and sanitation development in eleven secondary centers and is expected
to pave the way for future Bank Group involvement in that sector. Similarly,
the Power Engineering Project should identify possibilities for Bank financing
in the sector also. Fourth, assistance is being provided under the Third
Education Project approved in FY79 to help the Government reorient and expand
the country's education system at all levels. Bank strategy in the education
sector has focussed on: (a) meeting the need for trained high- and middle-
level managers and technicians in the modern sector and in agricultural
development activities, by supporting technical training in secondary schools
and specialized institutions for technician training; and (b) supporting
institutions responsible for the development of primary education, in order to
improve access to primary education, particularly in rural areas. The Bank
remains conscious of the need to support the social services (within the
limits of the Government's ability to bear the recurrent costs involved) by



- 45 -
preparing carefully identified projects; to that end, funds under the Project
Preparation Facility were approved recently for a proposed Primary Health Care
project. Finally, continuing assistance is being provided to help Government
increase its absorptive capacity for planning, executing, and managing develop-
ment projects through institutional support within individual Bank Group
projects.  Several Bank Group operations, notably in tourism, t!lecommunica-
tions, port infrastructure, loans to SOFISEDIT, and in airport. development,
have the additional merit of generating revenues for the Senegalese Treasury.
137.      Although the Bank Group prefers to help restructure institutions
and policies through its normal involvement in different sectors, this type of
intervention has proven insufficient in several respects. First, Senegal is
struggling with a number of intersectoral issues such as inadequate management
of its parapublic sector and low absorptive capacity for foreign aid. To
assist in these fields, the Bank has launched two technical assistance pro-
jects: one, related to the parapublic sector and approved in 1978, is being
successfully implemented; the other one, which is intended to improve the
country's absorptive capacity for foreign aid and the productivity of Senegal's
investment program, was approved by the Board last August; this latter project
is designed to strengthen the role of central ministries and to improve the
use of analytical tools in technical ministries. Second, Senegal's long-
observed economic stagnation and the deep-seated problems that have culminated
in the present crisis call for additional, special remedies. One is economic
advice. In 1979, for instance, the Bank helped Government devise a policy
package aimed at improving the balance of payments while maintaining whatever
growth momentum was left in the economy, through waste reductions, cutting
consumer subsidies, and higher taxes on urban dwellers, rather than through
cuts in groundnut producer prices or curtailing productive investments. At
this stage, however, Government needs time to execute the difficult program
outlined in Part II of the present report, and financial assistance to bridge
balance-of-payment problems in the years during which the economic adjustment
will take place, a situation which has led the Bank/IDA to propose a Structural
Adjustment Loan/Credit.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
138.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Senegal and the
Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Senegal
and the Association, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for the Article V, Section 1(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately.
139.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.



- 46 -
140.      The establishment of a special account for prefinancing eligible
imports would be a special condition of effectiveness (draft Development
Credit Agreement and draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
141.      There will be a review before March 31, 1981, of the specific
conditions agreed upon with the Government for release of the second tranche,
and more in general, of progress on the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program laid out in the Government's policy statement. A condition of dis-
bursement would be that aggregate disbursements from the Loan/Credit for
imports of goods would be limited to US$40 million unless the Bank/IDA were
satisfied, on the basis of such review, with progress achieved by the Govern-
ment in carrying out the program (para. 120).
142.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Development Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and of the Association,
respect-Eely.                                       
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
143.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
and Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 1, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 47  -                                         Annex  1
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEPAGES
LAND AReA (THOUSAND SQ. RM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            196.2
AGRICULTURAL      81.0                                  OST RECENT            LIO  INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE l   AFIICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  1e0.0       240.0    340.0                  228.9                    726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALRMT)     121.0        139.0    181.0                  90.0                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-TEAR (MILLIONS)       3.4         4.4       5.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.6         23.7      24.9                  17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YeAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         24.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RRACHeD                  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. M-.                       17.0         22.0      28.0                  27.4                    61.7
PER SQ. XM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     43.0         55.0      67.0                  82.6                   126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.0         42.9      44.3                 44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                         54.0         54.2      52.8                 52.2                     51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVe                   2.0          2.9       2.9                   2.8                     2.8
POPULATLON GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL /                            2.2         2.4       2.6                   2.7                     2.7
URBAN                               3.5         2.9       3.2                   6.8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.0        47.0      49.0                  47.4                    46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0        23.0      22.0                  19.6                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                .          3.0       3.2                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          125.0        83.0     104.0                 91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   92.0         95.0      95.0                  90.2                    92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          62.0         64.0      64.0                  53.0                    53.0
OF WHICN ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0        20.0      19.0                  18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      41.0        35.0      32.0                  27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0         40.0      42.0                  45.3                    50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           93.0           ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..       37.0                 23.2                    31.0
URBAN                                ..          ..       68.0                 58.0                    66.8
RURAL                               ..           ..       23.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPPULATION)
TOTAL                               ,,           .         ,,                  28.9
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                  67.0
RURAL                               ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          22376.0     16673.0   15704.0               30910.4                 14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4110.0/c    2684.0    1608.0                 5793.2                  3279.5
POP,JLATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            840.0        810.0    900.0                 1198.9                  1141.5
URBAN                             281.0       356.0
RURAL                            2001.0      1171.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        22.2      26.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                .           ..       7.6.
RURAL                                .           ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                                .           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                      ..         ..
RURAL                                                      ..                ..
1/ UN estimates; Government estimates population growth at 2.7 percent a year.



-48 -                                        Annex 1
Pais 2
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SR,ZT
SENEGAL                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGES
- KSST          TIHATE
MOST RECENT           LOW1 INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT BATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 27.0        43.0      47.0                 57.7                    61.7
MALE                 36.0        53.0      57.0                 74.2                    69.2
FtIALE               17.0        33.0      37.0                 54.1                    51.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0        10.0      11.0                 10.0                    20.6
MALE                  4.0        15.0      16.0                 13.7                    29.2
FEMALE                2.0         6.0       7.0                  7.1                    14.7
VDCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 23.0          9.0      10.0                  6.8                     7.0
FUPIL-TEACNER RATIO
PRIMARY                             ..        45.0      49.0                 45.0                    36.6
SECONDARY                         34.0        29.0      22.0                 25.2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        5.6/d      10.0      10.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0         9.0       9.2                  3.6                    38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        40.0        68.0      64.0                 31.5                    83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.4       0.4                  1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  6.0         5.0       7.0                  4.6                    24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..       0.7                   ..                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1590.3      1911.8   2232.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  39. 7       39.1      38.0                 33. 5                   38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.6        79.7      77.0                 80.7                    54.3
rNDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.4         6.6       8.0                  8.1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.6        44.3      42.8                 42.2                    38.8
MALE                                56.7        54.5      53.0                 55.1                    48.4
FEMALE                              36.8        34.3      32.8                 29.5                    29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.1                  1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEI7VED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8e         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.5/e        ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.2e         ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9. 4e        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US $ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                138.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      82.0                 86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     194.0                107.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENTT)
URBAN                                                    ..                ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 66.9.
lNot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of counrtries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eastimae, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  1964;  /d African population only;  /e Population.
April, 1980



-49 -Annex 1
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL NItfAlTlOhS
Notes:  Although th  e dte  r  decei trtsoresgneal  judge  the   -05                    noltatlr-  end reliable, Or should also be noted that theYTmay sot be iaee
threlse, -arful to desclb   cdors of eoitude, hod icete treeds. and thrreiroesnejrdfenrehete-o   outrie.
theintress goup  ar  U)1 the same oootry geoup of the sublet --toey add 12) . c....ry group otth soseeher higher s-srge 1                           leb-s hatshe  cr.r.   crest.
of the  _uhlec  countr   (lecep  for 'CaptIta  loplos Oil Epotters", group obere  'Midlel lot-c  North AttIcs ond Middl.e- ts" is chosen heo.o. e,f stronger
solocuora  afolte)    T  tereeree   ropdeco the  -vergee   r  posl-           fe  tegt  e             Idrnel  men  foseh' ldhc rcd   eh-' ony wh.. Ie
lestblfo  th-toneesIr    ee_          a  data for~,   ehrhelroe    tIo   the  -oreege tO coutries  -ngthe iedocators depends on the aalbility of
dat  sd  o  oronoor,  auic  eor  e  o       f-led do  ead g   ergs  fssInltr  to oco thr.-  The. ..e  -gs  are only .e.f.  toc                       isng she  -nals
of one Wlldt.... 00t  ohm  csoo-g the cotere  so rfrP.egous
LAO NdARA (tho..s.od  qvIte.)                                                                    Ooito   o   hoor       ouooroessI   uer0 rcuugpp
Toch-  oalauiseara  opeluhag lend.area aed inln    str.tclao did2iA~o     eIclehcol,l or  -nlrr  lop  loon.~                                                             h
boiuluo  -tteeeotarcltrlersued-sorrl oTe-lety                                                   oalto   crnrsn            -ero-Pooaho    iIddb  nmelo   rtnco
fo Eroa    anore_ Ifetadknho   adn   nr  ligho:  97  dco                               rinan  fIle grad--tenuss,prcocl  use,  o   -asslat  uss
ly       Poru1laloorrgala   e      oa               ros        rrl-Ppleo    sei
fi irCPycll               -l-tCP  e  candc kai-hens 1deo  coreo    marke  pe ce,cltrt,adrrl   lle    yths   epcl    abro   ortlbd
coutd  y  oo  cntrsIo  mthdasgoldgal  tls  196-       I cs.; 197,7ntthl  induhioso  peten  gonerl an dispertdlbe .bedilea t sod re
-     190,  od 178  ote                                                                                hehlhttloocerers   lfapinlesessthllhaeustpruscati  stffe
hytloe                                       P. haco.gthhheo   rolla    nrlel    asda
ond, andOto  prr197e8oa   o  adhdo,  s                           ndgcbee dcc-icen er  ino  perblioel  stfedhd                                 physicot  (ha  byili. a.. ts c Iasstat
dots.                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hblimited  rng  of- medc                                   i feelllIte.  Far taslisbtho   parp-etl  tebefhspd
d...  ...... IdI-~~bosltoOlcle   uo  ho_tttalcf en  ecdlca-,,(ltse   bytenIt  eiaes
teol Pruarlt,hOdter lfl lo ed-  nofJl P.         ; 1A, 19P1,  ed 19f                 Ad78so    Pe netl e       oa                 nethe  of  Atddahn oordshre
dots                                                                                            Proitloapiuno  drhde b9Dythtuerohd.
cooois;160   97.eo   97   Ae.                                               Average he960of970ooceh19d (person  pe .bouahld f           toa.  rg,adan'
Ul-Poylto  ioRs it. Cretppltionf   b. roet.Ions 1 arpuedo  99pn   heyntosels        ordro  lde  moo   ayio  h                                                             ue   i
toffol- popu.ltto   hyef   n -    eo atd  th Ir  eta_P_cdferilyIfdty  ass                     thH  huehl   frSrtlro    preeG
tettttucocio   h  lCore. level.tcnd  past famly  lnnIngb . d. p       1980ass.     Aces   noEeticIty   (r-rcor o   delgas  -n otl.y se th.s iodlrura  -
Arttsryecsulo     I     scteur   uplntothr  Is% no growth. sines.i2nlb'T
thr  liet  toteI is. oquat  totheI--. d  Int rate  co-lotheP cg  sirtt.rere-            OdCid
slos1 cosantd    IbIs lis  cIee ol  after-fnethltbilrates ato77o5   to."h                 Od..lusned lero ploso    -ly...nn...i..-sste,,.l
notlo-at ly on the  a -is of th   poethed  n i          -btesitalof th  poplo.lloy          C   pi ...ry scoo-a1ige populaItions;   trmsi   Inclues tolldee  agled b-Il
-onth  yon       1,ad te  rosofs-n    f  ehle    ast  oepac-                                   yse  Io  ajoned for. difere   lengths of- pelaY            edoli;fr
sls  u  hee  reshieid          h-dIyftlfiiy t dliiscooA. dop Ech1..ol - Letgi.  sl   0   eae-Tnuida   hv;ieod
Per00. ,s angrou turo   lotd  IfCudplted  fethv ftnlr       II ogtuturupl. irodg eooluded.y  nl...thld.  .. .61
colc.                                                          hcoortoosl eortllaron  (cercent~~~I    of _ eoday      henist-onnutr
tuouTtCoIrcrc _rrn       hide    1l    er),nrlgse1)                                           y-ocude  doohoidel  fod nctlo,  r   therI p          igeon y  dbih oseno  ndee
.0000  161,191,sod198   -at.d -PTh.  e-l  sehert oct1.0 - erloaro.aid                                                    codPeoPsr-t Tos   ndoo   noldI
luto-  hoc 1910I-hi,.d1Il   nd1717.                                                              syscnnog   of Itonl,   adul  poploohoi sgsd  1 yece  sod; o-e..
popultIon;1961  1971nand  91t.atal lNii9PTll
Ir  .c..u  tstocd    c   perIo  ifd -heorrse                    Ifeon  age-spe-h  for-     dadIo yo-cehvs ps (ret  thssn    -oo du lytO     x-tAllrpesofri sisa   orrd
tye-yOht p      s,. itusil f- 19n0-y60  19 raee6d0  g n790,19 and190-8      197._rodost  to.....                        puli  per nh..iand ofyppulat.on  hitl.i.td heol
heeipPlcocgucoycr,  scallrouAndol     gti.tha  ume  of aben.pt-o                       ssd  ee    _oo Is  ootessdI yit           orsl dhnl,  reglneetn..  of endb     O
thlcti-cetoa         ele fne.upoito   stolfool,lnIg  rgu.                                      si do5060s1frc70n;17  dcno ~tfo  esco     pep.ars ias   not hecoprel  elecesoo
Polltg-otslereo    f   arId  esn      Ptonog    f  aetd                 echjnP htll -dllc             adog
000   hod      l-erigaell-AptoaBh  ueheh-ots dthctO                                          p  eoleslertesotpelnte       .7ecier   o   rodstt
o_ oroedcoe  Ec   h ...oo s - A.dOP.  glievl  ublc prhsousrd,ppultio;....oesuItdiedTVdeceter
p.p.l.ti.I; 1960, 1970, and 1978 dll: ~                           CNcSUITONtitoityonhnsnttnnoT    eso                                       ofet
"ItohPi  196d0tlc  yet0 Codol dta (997Al1      ns  ofpr   a1h  anal                             0sto           I...l thoo   Inerest  os-p. pr". defne -aaapoiedfo......-d
os vt-sec;  p-c1yr  po-c-  we             ndting196-65   1-970, od1978 -dae 9o-d-ootl  usta. g..1pbi    -t  ..n                                 .jj          ld          i
Potcscltsosrclhofculcthos(errconnfretohreeconal-CoaPstrufr    a
010  odhslh   ooiotogeodnry....        eoornur  both dyt-  dolgba  too          fTal  (preo)-  Perol  labor f                    Vr-su    pecrng    of- nblIcher fote.
hoDoDN~rhTONd ler;16-5dl,od17   os                                                                 ....no t~as percotag   ofI  h.t. laorfo Ve 191.1970 and 1978dat.
cr   dicl   allfodproy   aehseply  of te       d -d t- dehlved o    feevd  he-         li-lotrhcitdy, ean lt ood so  as. pedcitgo ofd.  t-tu   It  foc;  91
aoO ItOOt  fo   llctoro   eotobltohI        d  by  ll   pecodo  forg slIdnto
yt. b. "~~~~~~~~~~~~orh                                           IIootloo  Oats lo pthe,. A       tf- toa.o lo . ao  fm s-Potok  snono
hod1   __od   prcdy 1910,   197- eadih   1977 d6co  1gr9er0ucuo  o  hs  epl1i97                                                       ad  on.t,sorodkAto  oti
hOo    oauiol   t  pls pI          .it a stn   ... dty; 1p61-6.l , 1970pand 1911 dots        t   Lhabt  s-and (nh cotl   -     E-atl -ofpoploty  -oie  15   d  5lsdi000
ore   sudelod in fr.dlf  to i; dIh  1971. so  197  dollbts.: Rq             -      c     fior    licvo  iciT-lOOaaeIn    nerl;190   97   n
.  ... II, I  t,d ly YAI 1,,,d 1Prceougsof  rlcer nphoyIothho csh tldflnd)ed,selfd-h  rihr_
so hitch: 1960.l-fih 197                                                                             -ntgefbtt.  urfdl; 919707 data.97  dl.
Itfct   hornld    hotolretouol-O:oOdsi;f 9lohuntousuor coo your    foccoho Tuciet coocy
otag  7cr ti-oc ..Ion .lot                                                                   olao   hooePcrpOon                                                                  
-poo   lc Iv thud Pro    rtce   heyroholyosf. oprtn ds f ard nslorrsltb          o        hrto-       Oeloio    tcolt Inceer irel-lull ooe  upta)l .-ura f itd 19e6l
ycrcc_hOgh   oh clo    _ thprttO  yaaalo. l   nuhnorspbt                                        or   ootrytor   iod   or   teetbr    faesoprcp
[cooso   cttodpoolcItdi       toorI.ndi.olyirtrUSDA           bcsosbn                   pripolo-nefdeouoiy Ufalveluelvifnt=rur
coodrdh'occioocsl    cin   fto   ose.voo   es
fosoitu  eta,.. .Iod  odp          y ohcob.ooo dO or    IIohor  oOoh      anutocd       lonstsjroetfrhgtcothloogoorio re.
Pos   ccIco .. i ao oullrotio    sod iuspcopolp, tlth            IA or ulthcuhtc dstmo--,Gcndnfh lotnipsin tand  frj                                     Iio  Dprsn
Out  0   csso   oetoosnrh  tut1-77c   ohaon                                       1960the70osad ct.chpril.  1980p.i.I..    flIi
p0',,oso   - ult  citllsccadae                                                              l-- Ift.pplt.,.d..ti.ted A   - It



<<*~~~~~~~ ~~~~  0.C                                    . = =                                                            C    .O -                               n Ob4                            Q<    f   4 o         f      OsH0   0-0W
=                                  00a0   0000.             0.    0-|s@  lboDl  ns <  a000        0 M'0                    000C _00000000 4      -     _0.?  -  
aN                                        i  OO<D|oo0nC  olre<OC   0<000    >CA            CA                000          00<_r004 0.wX   0   0      00ootaWr.000  00 o           - r,   = o
- n     . r 0N C 00 X000-000000  9                                                                    I  0    ot             go4  0   N 00  040.0O  CA  00N'0  04 CA  '<0    CA  a.00  o000  o  OC
,n.~ <0^ 000.C.~                 00 r       0   -   '00       |C        0000                         0000                  <         91         44X49 o~b0 CO 00000<00000
0000.08~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~           ~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00  N4 v=. 80 '00  0_. CA    '<0     4 00  00        0000004     0    00.  ~@>; t   
0000000             ONO           0           eg    0 0<         a,=,       o 
0 0o       ooN     o.                  CA0CA 1,0                                          00           0.  CA                          No00                                0      5 oOo1s   noocor_O -00X ol          o
0t0                N0 CONO                                   NO |ao  |<                                                   0      e4=
a 00         00               *1910.  CO            0                    0               AO          0                                  .0
00000   ~       ~        _lv  I_                                    C w0 o-ao_;                     ns              0< 0< ioC c<   CA w00ol   i          wwv
0000000i Pe 000                                           i0 CAo 000.0         00    0<CC000C                  oA.'0C              o< u<CHCA<<. 0  <'O            0. _0441   _
C       8   0             0<~-          <0 X3.iN            00AAA...<                C00C000                   0<<0. 05C000000.<A                              0            0



- 51-                                              '        iFixl
SENEGAL] - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(millions of current US$)
Actuals                     EstimnteX                                        Projections
1974   1975   1976   1977           1978       1979         1980      1981      1982       1983      1984      1985       1990
A.  SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports, inc.  NFS                        602    693    698    853            691        864           841    1,190    1,396        1,551     1,739    1,962    3,778
Imports, inc.  NFS                       -691   -793   -852   -979          1,n3o    -1,337          1,318   -1,566   -1,742    -1,928   -2,148-  -2,394   -4,270
Restoure  Balance                         -89   -100   -154   -126           -339       -473          -477      -376      -346       -377      -409      -432      -492
Factor Services (net)                     -48    -55       -8    -13          -27        -56           -74       -73       -76        -83 .  -92         -103      -161
Net investment income                  -26    -37    -20    -24            -28        -38           -46      -38       -41         -42       -44      -45        -70
Interest on public debt               -14    -19    -18    -21             -29        -44          -49       -49       -48        -47        -45      -45        -51
Other interest                           2     -3      -1      -4           -4        -11           -20      -25       -28         -36       -47      -59        -98
Workers' remittances                  -20      -6      17      18           15         17            19        20        21         23        25        27        33
Other                                   10      10     14      18           19         20            22        19       20          19        19        19        25
Current Transfers (net)                    64      67     66      71            97         93          140       106       114        123       133       143       210
Current Acesunt Balance                   -73    -88    -96    -68           -269        -436         -411      -343      -308       -337      -368      -392      -443
Private Capital (net)                      -5      12      16     26            36         42           46        51        57         62        69        77       136
Capital Grants                             19      22      23     24            29         33           35        36        38         39        40        42        54
Publie M - T Leans (net)                   60      56      60     56           135        136          236 /L4  145 /17  179          214      -265       281       267
Disbursements                           80     76      84      92          204        214           342      249       277        325        402      457       641
Repayments                            -20    -20    -24    -36             -69        -78         -106      -104       -98       -111      -137      -176      -374
Short-tern Capital (net) 1/                23      10      -     -38          -39          36           50/A  -50 /1
Capital n.e.i.  2/                        -31    -22    -13       -9            24/7       70 /11       40 /15   71 /18    6 /19    -
Increase in Reserves  (+)                  -7    -10    -10       -9          -84       -119            -4       -90       -28        -22         6         8        14
Level of Foreign Assets (end yr.)         -.Y     7         i4   TSS f17   -47 1r 9                           -4 - f       1        XT463'    T9        7=
B.  LOAN COMHITKXENTS                           70    135    127    215            357        149          282    -68          259        373       444       491       678
IERD                                        3       7     26      20 /5         11          7           4o        14        30         64        51        48        63
IDA                                         -      25     11       -           26         25            72        13        25         25        28        31        42
OPEC FPnds                                  -       4       -      3             5         -             8         9        10         11        13        14        15
Other International Institutions           10       6      12     21           28 /B      46 /12        14        22        20         23        25        26        31
France                                     16      13     27      28           27          25          101        36        40         44        48        53        59
Germany                                    17       3       5      4             2         16           15        17        17         19        19        22        25
Canada                                      -       8       4      5            -          -             2         2         2          2         2         2        -3
OPEC Countries                              9       -       4      -            38 /9       6           -         -         -          -         -         -         -
Other Bilateral                             4 /3  21 /4   -       12 L6         20 LI0    15 /13        20        20        23         25        27        30        33
OMVS (Diama Dam)                            -       -       -      -            -          -            ,        113 /16    -          -         -         -         -
Suppliers                                   3       1      10     22            10          3           10        15        20         30        30        30        38
Financial Institutions and                  8      47     28    100            190          6           -          7        72        130       201       235       369
Private Banks
C.  LOAN TERMS
Interest (%)                              4.7    4.8    6.1    7.6             6.9        3.9           5.3       4.4       5.8        6.5       6.5       6.5       6.7
Grace (years)                             6.3    6.5    5.6    3.6             3.7         6.4          6.6       6.5       4.6        4.1       3.6       3.6       3.2
Maturity (years)                         27.5   23.4   20.1   12.7             13.7       23.7         26.5      30.1      21.1       18.8      17.2      16.9      15.8
Grant Element (7%)                       39.0   40.0   28.2   13.6            18,9       43.9          41.4      53.4      37.3       29.7      27.2      26.9      24.6
Debt Service Rati  (2)                    5.4    5.3    5.5    6.4            13.6        13.7         18.0      12.7      10.4       10.5      11.3      12.6      13.0
Debt Service Ratio  (including              -       -    5.6    6.6            15.1       15.8         19.5      15.5      13.3       17.6      13.3      14.5      13.8
IMF fonds)
al   Includes arrora end oisaisee. (1980/81 figuree refer to a short-Cart OPMS loan).
2    Includes ST&S,  DkI allocatimas  end differences betwen Wblic capital iafles
as recnrded by the Central Bank and by the IBED debt report.                                                              0 Preliminary informatio- on the 1990/Ri
s 74 million f-m  U.S.A.                                                                                                          groundnut crop, received in November,
4   Includes $17.4 million from Spain and $3.5 frna Denmark.                                                                      is pessimistic and, if confirmed, tmy
t5   Includes $14 million Third Window Funds.                                                                                     reduce ou  October 1980 export projections
/6   U.S. Aid                                                                                                                     for 1981 by some US$150 million.
L7   STABEX $24 million.
8   Includes $17.6 million IMF Treat Fends.
L9   $37 million fron Saudi Arabia and $1 million fron Abe Dhabi.
/10  Spain.
/11  Includes STABEX $64 million and SDR allocation $6 million.
/12 Insludes $13.4 million IMF Trust Fund, $19.6 million African Development Bank, and
$12.8 million European Investment bank.
/13  Ineledes $12.8 million from Japan and $2 million from the Snited Kingdom.
L14  Includes exeeptiosal aid:  IDA  $15 million; France $67.6 aillion; and STABEX
advance from France 136.2 million.
/15 Includes STABEX $34.8 million and SDR alloca1tis $6 million.
/16  An estimated share of 75% in the $150 million cost of the Diama Dam:  France $52 millio;.
Saedi Arabia $37 million; Kowait $35 million; and African Development Bank $26 million.
/17  Incleding exceptinonl aid from IBRD $30 million and IDA $15 million.  Alan including gapfills from 1981 en.
/18  Inluding STABEX $65.2 million ($101.4 millin STABEX less repayment of STABEX advance fron France
$36.2 million) and SDR $5.8 million.
9  SDR allocation $6 million.
October 1980



Table 1:1: EXPORT DETAIL
Actuals                                              Estimates                                         Projections
1974       1975        1976       1977       1978-       1979       1980        1981       1982        1983       1984        1985        1990
A. CONSTANT 1971 PRICES
(millions of CFAF)
1. Groundnut products                          lb,lld.    27,foo0     40,620     37,535      10,398     21,276       7,802     28,265*    28,765      29,282      29,809     30,346      33}177
2. Phospnates                                   5,9,2      4,757       5,526      5,39b       5,054      5,709       5,ts..0    5,831      6,071       6,2J4       6,483      6,74a       7.969
3. Petroleum products                           2,2b7      2,221       1,651      3,000       3,178      3,27)       2,584      2,713       2,849      2,991       3,141      3,298       4,209
4. Fish and fish products                       7,230      7,709       8,928     12,600      12,660     13,601      14,008     14,778      15,517     16,448      17,559     18,831      24.960
5. Other goods                                 10.902      9.257      12, 84     15.303      12,829     12.525      13 447     14.s21      15.252     16,243      17.380     18 945      28.354
6. Total goods                                 42,469     51,750      69,569     73,834      44,119     56,386      43,491     65,899     68,400      71,198      74,414     78,162      98.669
7. Adjustments on custom statistics /I          3,269      4,388       3,510      5,256       4,455      4,355      4,099       4,102      4,307       4,566       4,839      5,130      6.733
8. Non-tactor services                         22.813     20,574      22.709     21.788      24,169     23,357      21,402     22.400      23.500     24,910      26.903     29,055     41.898
Total Exports                              L68551      76,712      95,788    100.878      72.743     84.098      68 992     92,401     96,207    100 674    106.15b    llZ 347    147.300
B. PRICE INDICES (19/1 - 100)
1. Groundnut products                           210.8      145.0       158.4      211.0      22b.0       19s.0      175.o       221.3      276.8      279.6       282.4       285.2      413.3
2. Pnosphates                                   419.1      467.2       306.1      278.0      277.0       257.5       301.2      334.5      363.0      395.7       432.5       473.3      621.5
3. Percoleum pso.uct.                           234.2      312.8       321.9      427.0      428.0       458.0      619.2       7j8.8      808.2      884.8       968.5    1,061.9    1 828.8
4. Fish and fish products                        99.2       94.2       126.0      134.0       143.0      155.9       169.9      181.8      194.5      208.1       222.7       238.3      334.2
5. Other goods /j                               206.8      241.4       140.9      189.5      206.6       225.1      245.4       262.6      280.9      300.6       321.7       344.2      48.8
6. Total goods                                  221.2      191.5       167.0      207.1      216.9       214.2       238.0      252.7      288.8      303.5       319.5       377.2      480.3
7. Adjustments and NFS                          194.3      198.3       193.7      209.3      211.0       227.3      276.6       301.1      328.8      356.3       385.4       417.3      613.4
Total Exports                                211.0      193.7       174.0      207.7      214.6       218.6      252.3       266.6      300.4      302.5       33i.2       361.6      530.9
C. CURRENT VALUES
(millions or CFAF)
1. Groundnut products                          33,977     40,318     64,342      79.200     23,499      41,701     13,700      62,531     79,620      81,874     84,182      86,547      137.1
2. Phospnates                                  24,946     22,225     16,914      15,014     14,000      14,701     17,018      19,504     21,843      24,668     28,041      31,913       49-5
3. Petroleum products                           5,309      6,948      5,316      12,800     13,602      14,999     16,000      20,045     23,024      26,467     30,419      35,021       76.9
4. Fish and fish products                       7,172      7,262      11,250     16,900     18,104      21,200     23,799      26,865     30,183      34,233     39,194      44,873       83.4
5. Other goods                                 22,569     22,348     18,103      29,006     26.499      28,199     33,000      37,605     42.853      48.833     55,909      6),207      136.9
6. Total goods                                 93,973     99,101    115,925    152,920      95,704    120,800    103,517    166,550    197,523    216,075    237,745    263,561          483.8
7. Adjustments on custom statistics /3         6,362       8,701      6,799      11,000      9,401       9,901     11,339      12,353     14,164      16,268     18,649      21,407       41.3
8. Non-tactor services                         44,325     40,799     43.987      45,600     50,999      53.101     59.204      67.457     77,280      88.763    103,671    121 247       257.0
Total Exports                               144.660    148,601    166,711    209.520    156,104    183 802    174.060    246,360    288,967    321.106    360,065    406,215           782.1
D. CURRENT VALUES
(millions of US dollars)
1. Groundnut products                          141.3       188.1      269.2       322.4      104.1      196.0        66.2      302.0*      384.6     395.4        406.6      418.0       662.2
2. Phosphates                                   103.7     .103.7       70.8        61.1       62.1        69.1       82.2        94.2      105.5      119.1       135.4       154.1      239.2
3. Petroleum  Products                          22.1        32.4       22.2        52.1       60.3       70.5        77.3        96.8      111.2      127.8       146.9       169.1      371.8
4. Fish and fish proaucts                       29.8        33.9       47.1        68.8       80.2        99.7      114.9       129.8      145.8      165.3       189.3       216.7      402.9
5. Other gooos                                  93.9       104.3       75.8       118.1      117.4       132.6      159.4       181.6      206.9      235.9       270.0       314.9      661.1
6. Total goods                                 390.8       462.4      485.1       622.5      424.1       5b7.9      500.0       804.4      954.0   1,043.5      1,148.2    1,272.8    2 337.2
7. Adjustments on custom statistics /j          26.4        40.6       28.5        44.8       41.7       46.5        54.8        59.7       68.4      78.6         90.1       103.4      199.6
8. Non-tactor services                         184.3       190.4      184.1       185.6      226.0      2429,       285 9       325_8      373 3      428.7       560.7       585 6   1 241.5    I '
Total Exports                               601.5       693.4      697.7       852.9      691.8      864.0       840.7    1,189.9    1.395.7   1 550.8       1,739.0    1,961.8    3 778.3   cj
(Exchange rate)                            (240.50)   (214.32)   (238.98)   (245.67)  (225.64)    (212.72)   (207.06)   (207.06)   (207.06)  (207.06)    (207.06)   (207.06)  (207.06)
1/ Adjustments are related to:  (i) the timing of transactions;                                Prelimin3xy infootion on the 1960/81 groundnut crop, received in
(ii) under-invoicing and unofficial border trade;                                          Neer, ispsitiC on th    confirmednay    re                   ctober
(iii) stock movements in bonded warehouses; and                                            November, is pesWtic and, if confirmed, may reduce our October
(iv) supplies to ships (mainly bunkers).                                                   1980 export projidtions for 1981 by some US$150 million.
2/ Calculated as residuals.
3/ Import price index.



TABLE 1. 2 IMPORT DETAIL
Actuals                          Estimates                                                   Pro ections
1974       1975       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980       1981        1982       1983       1984
A. CONSTANT PRICES (c.i.f.)
(mfilions of CFAF)
Foodstuffs                                 17,139     13,063      18,403     19,842    21,115      24,666    21,394    21,202        19,800     18,546      18,138     17,797    18,200
Petroleum                                   4,715       4,497      4,668      5,291      4,988      5,690       7,154      7,163      7,521       7,897      8,292      8,707    11,112
Intermediate goods                         13,644     18,809      23,464    24,213    23,350    24,575    17,741          23,500    24,675    25,909    27,204         28,564    37,154
Other consumer goods                        9,826      12,451     16,621    21,620    18,500    21,576    14,860          16,123     16,445     16,774    17,110       17,452    19,841
Equipment goods                            16,118    14,022    15.738    18,649    14,600    19,427            5,15    16 981    17828    18784               _        20558    25 974
Trata  goods                               61,442    62,842       78,894    89,615    82,553    95,934    76,309    84,969    86,270            87,910    90,534       93,079   112,281
Adjustments on custom statistics /1    14,616          10,593     10,866     11,181     11,800     12,751      9,721       9,217      9,770     10,356    10,978    11,636    15,572
Non-factor services                         9.408    12,338    14,608        14,143    15,830    16,451    12,623    13,498    13.633            13769    _1390-7    14 046    16 280
Total Imports                            85466    85773   104            114939   110.183   125.136    98.653   107.684   109.673   112_035   115.419   118,761   144,133
B. PRICE INDICES (1971- 100)
Foodstuffs                                  236.3       224.9      186.1      189.5      191.8      171.9      209.4       228.3      254.2      271.8       290.9      312.2      408.8
Petroleum                                   329.3       330.0      404.8      442.0      417.0      513.2      698.9       837.6      918.0   1,006.8   1,103.8   1,211.9   1 951.8
Intermediate goods                          177.2      182.8       185.4      200.0      200.0      223.4      243.5       260.6      278.8      298.3       319.2      341.5      479.0
Other consumer goods                        177.1       182.8      185.4      200.0      200.0      223.4      24J.5       260.6      278.8      298.3       319.2      341.5      504.0
Equipment goods                             135.2       166.4      167.9      200.0      200.0      223.4      243.5       260.6      278.8      298.3       319.2      341.5      479.0
T: al Goods /2                            194.3      198.3      195.1       209.3      211.0      227.3      276.6      301.1       328.9      356.4       385.4      417.3      61
C. CURRENT VALUES
(millions of CFAF)
Foodstuffs                                 40,502    29,313    34,248    37,597    40,499    42,401    44,799    48,404    50,322               50,408    52,763       55,562    74,402
Petroleum                                  15,528     14j840    18,897    23,390    20,800    29,201    49,999            59,997     69,044     79,509    91,528   105,516   216,885
Intermediate goods                         24,176     34,375    43,502    48,426    46,700    54,901    43,200           61,230    68,791       77,287    86,832       97,556   177,972
Other consumer goods                       17,1s8    22,756    30,816    43,240         37,000    48,201    36,200    42,009    45,848          50,039    54,612       59,604    95,046
Equipment goods                            21.788    23 332    26.424    34,894    29,200    43,400    36 901    44,244    49,704    56,035    63,167    70,213   124,421
Total goods                               119,382    124,616   153,887   187,547    174,199   218,103   211,095   255,884   283,719   313,278   348,902   388,451   688,720
Adjustments on custom statistics /1    28,398    21,004    21,201    23,400    24,899    28,989    26,891                 27,757    32,129      36,903    42,303    48,558    95,515
Non-factor services                        18,280    24_467    28.540    29_600    33.403    37_401    34 919    40 649    44 832               40.065    53,591    53,614    99,858
Total Imports                           166,060   170,087   203.628   240,547   232.501   284,493   272_909   324,290   360,680   399,246   444796                      623 _84094
D. CURRENT VALUES (c. i. f.)
(millions of US$)
Foodstuffs                                  168.4      136.8      143.3      153.0      179.5      199.3        216.4    233.8       243.1       243.5      254.8      268.4       359.4
Petroleum                                    64.6       69.2        79.1      95.2       92.2       137.3       241.5    289.8        333.5      384.0      442.1      509.6   1 047.6
Intermediate goods                          100.5      160.4      182.0      197.1    "206.9       258.1        208.7    295.7       332.3       373.3      419.4      471.2       859.6
Other consumer goods                         72.3      106.2       128.9     176.0      163.9      226.6        174.8    202.9       221.4       241.7      263.8      287.9       459.0
Equlipment goods                             90.6      108.9       110.6     142.0      129.4      204.0        178.2    213.7       240.1    _270.6        305.1      3           601.0
Total Goods                                 496.4      581.5      643.9      763.4      771.9   1 025.3       1 019.6  1 235.9   1 370.4   1 513.1   1 685.2    1 876.2   3 326.6             0 L
Adjustments on customs statistics /1    118.1           97.9        88.7      95.2      110.3      136.3        129.9    134.1        155.2      178.2      204.3      234.5       461.3     --w
Non-factor serv-cc-s                         76.0      114.2       119.8     120.5      148.0      175.8        168.7    196.3       216.5       236 9      258.98    -28a3 L      482.3
Total Imports                             690.5      793.6      852.4      979.1   1 030.2  _1 337.4   _  1 8. 2 J1 566.3    1742.1 ..        92a1Z.2   _2148_.    7 393.8   4 270.2
(Exenange rates)                           (240.50)  (214.32)  (238.98) (245.67)  (225.64)  (212.72)   (207.06)  (20/.06)  (207.06)   (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.6)
1/  Adjustments are related to:  (a) the timing of transactions;
(b) under-invoicing and unofficial border trade;
(c)  stock movements it, bonded warehouses; and
(d) supplies to ships (mainly bunkers).
2/  The import price index is also applied to non-factor services
and trade adjustments.



SENEGAL - DEBT MiD CREDITWORTHINESS                                                                             ANNEX I
(milliony  of current US$)                                                                                ;e
Actuals                           Estiamtes                                                  Pro lections
1974        1975        1976         1977        1978        1979         1980        1981        1982         1983        1984         1985        1990
A. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(disbursed only)
1. Total Public Debt Outstanding                          245.1       295.0       350.4        417.1       581.7       717.6        914.0        1 059.2  1 238.3      1 452.2      1 716.8     1 997.9    3 220.4
2. Including Undisbursed                                  420.4       522.8       616.6        814.5     1 156.0    1 227.2    1. 147.1    1 354.3    1 605.8           1 955.9    2 341.0    2 721.0    4 206.4
3. Public Debt Service                                     33.4        39.3         42.3        56.5        98.0        122.0       154.9        152.6       146.6        163.6       197.8        248.5       497.2
a.  Interest                                            13.8        18.4        18.1         20.6        29.2        44.1         49.3         49.1        48.5         52.5        60.2        72.1        122.9
b.  Amortization                                        19.6        20.9        24.2         35.9        68.8         77.9       105.6        103.5        98.1        111.1       137.6        176.4       374.3
4. Other M & LT Debt Service                                -           -            1.1         1.8        11.1         18.9        13.1         32.6        41.7        47.0         35.9        37.4         31
a.  Interest                                             -           -            1.1         1.8    I   3.4           3.8         3.6        23.1         23.2        21.9         23.2        22.4         21
b.  Amortization                                         -           -            -           -           7.7        15.1          9.5         9.5         18.5        25.1         12.7        15.0         10
5. Total Debt Service                                      33.4        39.3         43.4        58.3       109.1        140.9       168.0        185.2       188.3        210.6       233.7        285.9       528.2
6. Net Investment                                          26.0        37.0         23.0        24.8        28.4         37.6        45.9         38.2        41.0         42.0        44.0        45.4         69.9
7. Total Payment on Foreign Capital                        59.4        76.3         66.4        83.1       137.5        178.5       213.9        223.4       229.3        252.6       277.7        331.3       598.1
B:  DEBT BURDEN
1. Public Debt Service Ratio                                5.4         5.3         5.5          6,4        13.6         13.7        18.0         12.7         10.4        10.5         11.3        12.6        13.0
2. Payment on Foreign Capital Ratio                         9.5        10.4          8.5         9.4        19.0         20.4        24.8         18.5         16.3        16.2         15.9        16.8         15.7
3. Public 3ebt Service/GDP                                  2.4         2.1          2.2         2.9         4.9          4,9          5.9         4.9          4.2         4.1          4.4         4.9          5.2
4. Public Debt Service/Govt. Revenuel/                      4.5         5.2         10.0         9.3        11.3         15.5         19.5        20.4         16.2        14.9         15.2        16.2         -
C.  TERMS-/
1. Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                          5.6         6,2         5.2          4.7         5.0         6.2           5.4         4.6          3.9         3.6          3.5         3.6          3.8
2. Public Debt Service/Total DOD                           13.6        13.3        12.1         12.7        17.0         17.1         16.9        14.4         11.8        11.3         11.5        12.4         15.4
2/
D.  DBPENDE  Y RATIOS FOR M & LT DEBT-
1. Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. aervices)            10.4         8.5         9.0          8.9        18.7        15.1         21.6         15.0         15.1        16.1         17.9        18.2         14.4
2. Net Transfer/Imports (incl. services)                    7.8         6.3         6.5          6.9         8.9          6.5         9.9          7.4          6.3         6.1         5.9          5.7         4.7
3. Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                         0.75        0.74        0.71         0.77        0.48         0.43        0.57        0.57         0.55        0.50         0.43        0.40         0.41
E.  EXPOSURE
1. IBRD Disb./Total Gross Disbursements                     1.0         9.4         5.6         14.1         3.2         4.9          4.0         5.5          5.2         5.7          6.9         7.7          8.5
2. Bank Group Disb./Total Gross Disbursements              20.9        24.9        19.9         22.6         7.6        13.1          8.6        11.8         11.9        12.0         12.1        12.8         13.9
3. IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                       1.3         3.4         4.2          6.5         5.5         5.8          5.7         6.1          6.2         6.4          6.5         6.8          8.2
4. Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                14.2        18.1        19.9         2116        17.9        18.2         16.9        17.2         17.2        17.1         16.8        16.7         18.9
5. IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                     1.8         1.9         2.9          3.6         4.2         3.2          3.1         9.9         12.0        11.8         13.0        12.5         11.9
6. Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service               2.5         2.6         3.7          4.6         4.9         3.8          3.7        10.6         12.9        12.8         13.9        13.4         12.9
Outstanding Dec. 31. 1979                   Outstanding Dec. 31, 1985                 Outstanding Dec. 31, 1990
F.  EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed only)                                             Amount              Percent                 Amount              Percent               Amount               Percent
1. IBRD                                                                      41.8                 5.8                  136.1                  6.8                265.3                   8.2
2. IDA                                                                       89.0                12.4                  197.9                  9.9                342.4                  10.6
3. Other Multilateral                                                        79.8                11.1                  322.3                 16.1                568.4                  17.6
4. Governments                                                              259.1                36.1                  577.7                 28.9                835.0                  25.9
5. Suppliers' Credit and Financial Institutions                             245.0                34.1                  148.4                  7.4                  11.5                  0.4
6. others                                                                     2.8                 0.4                  615.5                 30.8              1 197.8                  37.2
7. Total Public M & LT Debt                                                 717.5               100.0                1 997.9                100.0              3 220.4                 100.0
8. Total Public M & LT Debt (Lncl. undisbursed)                          1 227.2                171.0                2 721.0                136.2              4 206.4                 131.4
G.  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1980-85/DOD end-1979                   177.27.
1/   Debt service to be paid by the Treasury only (fiscal years).
2/   Public debt only.
3/   High Eurodollar borrowing to finance Government's participation policy.



-55 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1980)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                         (US$ Million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Four Loans* and thirteen Credits fully disbursed          13.5    58.1
336-SE     1972   Senegal       Housing Site
and Services                 8.0       2.1
866-SE     1972   OPTS          Telecommunications   6.2                  0.6
987-SE     1974   SOFISEDIT   Development Finance  3.0                    0.2
530-SE     1975   Senegal       Education II                  15.0        5.3
1113-SE     1975   Senegal       Agric. Diversifi-
cation               7.0                4.2
578-SE     1975   Senegal       Terres Neuves II               2.0        0.0
1221T-SE     1976   Senegal       Feeder Roads          6.6                 1.1
1222-SE     1976   Senegal       Third Highway        15.0                 3.5
633-SE     1976   Senegal       Livestock                      4.2        2.7
647-SE     1976   Senegal       Second Sedhiou                 6.3        3.3
1332-SE     1976   SOFISEDIT   Second Development
Finance             4.2                1.8
1405T-SE     1977   Senegal       Port of Dakar         6.0                 1.0
1412T-SE     1977   Senegal       Petite Cote Tourism  8.0                  4.7
1413-SE     1977   Senegal       Petite Cote Tourism  5.6                  3.3
764-SE     1978   Senegal       Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                  6.3       2.9
775-SE     1978   Senegal       Irrigation                    20.0        9.8
1518-SE     1978   RCFS          Railways III         11.0                 5.7
1665-SE     1979   Senegal       Second Airport        7.0                 6.1
S-23-SE     1979   Senegal       Water Supply Engr.             2.5        2.4
908-SE      1979   Senegal       Education III                 22.0       20.9
991-SE2/    1980   Senegal       Small Rural
Operations                  11.0      10.2
993-SE2/    1980   Senegal       Fourth Highway                28.0       28.0
1810-SE2/    1980   Senegal       Fourth Highway       10.0                10.0
S-26-SE2/    1980   Senegal       Power Eng and T.A.             3.3        3.3
Total                                    103.1   186.7      133.1
of which has been repaid                7.9      0.7
Total now outstanding                     95.2   186.0
Amount sold                       3.4
of which has been repaid        3.2
0.2
Total now held by  Bank and IDA 1/        95.0   186.0
Total Undisbursed                         42.2    90.9      133.1
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in
1969 was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Not yet effective.



- 56 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of October 31, 1980)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal       Obligor            Type of Business       Loan   Investment   Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant        2.45        1.01     3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)  BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                     Vegetable Export        -         0.84      0.84
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                Development
Finance Company        -          0.24     0.24
1980   Banque de l'Habitat      Money and Capital       -         0.47      0.47
du Senegal S.A.          Market
1980   Societe Hoteliere        Tourism                3.00        -        3.00
du Barachois, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                        5.45        2.56      8.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
repayment and sales                          2.45        1.05      3.50
Total Commitments now held by IFC              3.00        1.51      4.51
Undisbursed Balance                            3.00        0.00      3.00
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 336      Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation started slowly, but is now proceeding
satisfactorily following agreements reached with the Government in October
1978 to improve performance. The main problem affecting the project has
been plot consolidation and occupancy, but this is showing improvement with
the assistance of a loan scheme by the project agency (OHLM) and the Sene-
galese national development bank (BNDS), which is now fully operational. Site
development has also been hindered by the absence of on-site employment
opportunities other than construction-related activities; a unit in OHLM is
currently examining this problem and preparing proposals.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Ln. 866   Telecommunications Project; US$6.3 million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project was designed to improve the quality of telecommunica-
tions service in Dakar and in parts of northern Senegal. Completion of
project implementation took about five years longer than originally sche-
duled mainly because of delays in procurement, resulting cost overruns, and
changes in top management. The physical works are now completed, but due to
unsatisfactory acceptance testing of part of the system and administrative
delays the loan closing date had to be extended to June 30, 1981. The
Borrower has made significant efforts over the past two years to improve its
management, as well as its accounting and financial organization. This,
together with the audits and financial advisors financed under the Parapublic
Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 764), is expected to result in
substantial institutional improvements.
Ln. 987   SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
SOFISEDIT was created in March 1974 for the purpose of providing
long-term financing for developing enterprises in industry and tourism.
The first line of credit of US$3 million is almost entirely disbursed, and a
second loan (Ln. 1332) is under disbursement. A Project Completion Report
will be circulated shortly.
Cr. 366   Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies. All project
items are now satisfactorily completed. The strengthening program, how-
ever, had to be reduced from 110 km to about 35 km as a result of higher
costs than estimated at appraisal, and high inflation during implementation;
the remaining 75 km were strengthened under the ongoing Third Highway
Project (Ln 1222). The objectives of the maintenance program were not
entirely met due to management problems and insufficient allocation of local
funds, and the technical assistance was extended under the Third Highway
Project. Preinvestment studies were successfully completed and taken into
account in planning of subsequent projects. Only fellowships awarded under
the project remain to be completed.
Cr. 530   Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation remains about two years behind schedule
because of earlier delays in design and contract awards. These delays,
together with a 10% decline in the value of the US Dollar, resulted in a cost
overrun of about US$6 million. To help compensate for these increased costs,
the Government requested, and the Association has formally agreed, to reduce
the scope of the project by reducing the number of science centers from 11 to
8, the number of rural youth training centers from 30 to 15, and by deleting
from the project the construction and equipment for the Hotel School and



- 58 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
seeking another source of external financing for this component. The
Industrial Training and Upgrading Center has started training courses in
all trades. Construction and equipping of the Merchant Marine School have
been completed. Construction of 7 of the science centers and lower secondary
schools was satisfactorily completed at end-1979. The last center will be
finished early in 1981. Procurement of furniture and equipment is progressing
on schedule. The rural youth training component is experiencing implementa-
tion difficulties; but modified educational objectives and a revised imple-
mentation schedule have been agreed with the Government.
Cr. 549      Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln 1113      US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31, 1975
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The objective of the project is to improve productivity of small
farms through intensification of farmers' agricultural practices, particu-
larly through increased use of fertilizer and heavy equipment. However,
results over the first three years of the project show that yield increases
have been negligible. Re-orientation efforts were undertaken in agreement
with the Bank, and more emphasis was put on actions which had met favorable
results such as promotion of maize production in the south of the project
region, and integration of agriculture and animal husbandry in the north.
Despite these efforts, and although rainfall had been better than average, the
project did not show any improvement in additional production or yields, the
result largely of serious management and staffing problems, and an ineffective
extension service. It was therefore decided, in agreement with the Government
and the co-financer CCCE, to re-appraise the project in an attempt to find new
workable solutions to the existing problems. A joint re-appraisal was carried
out in November 1979, and a draft Amendment to the Credit Agreement was
re-negotiated with Government in May 1980 and signed on August 14, 1980, when
the closing date was extended to June 30, 1983.
Cr. 578      Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project, which is a follow-up to an earlier re-settlement
operation, consists of settling 600 families over a three-year period in the
Eastern Senegal Region, and providing the necessary infrastructure; and
preparing a master plan for agricultural development of the region. The
project has been completed satisfactorily, although about one year behind
schedule, and a Completion Report is being prepared.
Ln. 1221-T      Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing roads; purchase of high-
way equipment and spare parts, and materials and supplies for project



- 59 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
operations; technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring;
construction of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production. The
project had been experiencing serious delays caused by insuffici-ent financial,
managerial, and logistic support; but on the recommendation of and in agreement
with the Bank, the Government undertook a series of measures to accelerate
works, and progress has improved considerably. Works executed so far are of
satisfactory technical quality.                                               m
Ln. 1222     Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
The project consists of pavement strengthening of about 200 km of
primary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvest-
ment studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic construc-
tion industry. The project is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
The pavement strengthening program has been completed. The road maintenance
program begun under the Second Highway Project, and extended under this
project, is continued under the Fourth Highway Project to strengthen the
maintenance organization and operations. As a result of currency realign-
ments and a civil works execution period that was shorter than planned, an
amount of about US$2.5 million became available under the loan; the Bank has
agreed to the Government's proposals to use these funds to cover the foreign
cost of extending technical assistance for road maintenance, improving work-
shops and training center buildings, and procuring workshop and training
equipment.
Cr. 633      Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel
financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily and on schedule. Livestock producers
appear to be giving full support to the project.
Cr. 647       Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural and
livestock production through improved farming and husbandry practices.
Project implementation has been going reasonably well until the past season
when production was severely affected by the failure of ONCAD (the national
cooperative and marketing agency) to supply fertilizers as needed. In addi-
tion, the project's overall efficiency is hampered by administrative problems
similar to those being encountered in the Sine Saloum Project (Loan 549/Credit
1113) discussed above. The project has achieved its objectives in total area
cultivated and number of participants; however, findings of the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit show that project impact could be reduced, primarily because
participating farms show no significant yield increases (except for rice)



- 60 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
over those farms outside the project, and because the area cultivated per
participant is smaller than expected. Work on the agricultural development
plan for the Casamance Region by the project's Planning Unit is now completed,
and further detailed studies are underway.
Ln. 1332      Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with a second line of credit for
Industrial and tourism investments, the Loan has helped finance a pilot scheme
of assistance to small-scale Senegalese artisans through SONEPI, the local
industrial promotion agency. The Loan is fully committed. SOFISEDIT remains
nevertheless a fragile institution operating in a difficult environment.
As a result, a third operation, new under preparation, would concentrate
on strengthening SOFISEDIT and streamlining Senegal's industrial policies,
administration and promotion.
Ln. 1405-T   Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Following a slow start caused mainly by time-consuming Government
procedures, project implementation is now satisfactory. Civil works have
already been completed. The quality of contractors- workmanship is good, and
the new quays have been put into use. All the technical assistance services
and studies are progressing satisfactorily. Overall performance of the Port
Authority remains satisfactory, but there are continuing problems with receiv-
ables, statistics, and recruitment and retention of qualified staff.
Ln. 1412-T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln.-1413      Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common
facilities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area
where lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program
of works for renovation of Goree Island; and technical assistance and studies
to improve planning, promotion, and training in the tourism sector. Construc-
tion of infrastructure works at the Sali project area continues to proceed
satisfactorily. Major works are completed, and areas designated for hotel
construction are ready for delivery. The common recreation center and commer-
cial areas are under construction. Bidding documents for the Goree component
were approved by the Bank in FY80. In 1979, the Government requested the Bank
to consider reallocation of US$3.5 million of Loan funds originally intended
for construction of a pilot hotel at Sali to provide long-term financing for
hotel construction at the site. Negotiations to that effect were satisfac-
torily completed in January, 1980, and a proposal to amend the project
description in the Loan documents was approved by the Executive Directors on
April 29, 1980. The amendments were signed on May 12, 1980.



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Ln. 1518     Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance, supply of
material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities, and studies.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. Contracts for most of the
items for track renewal and maintenance have been signed, and the rest are in
an advanced stage of finalization. Almost half of the total order of locomo-
tive spare parts have been received. The training program is progressing
satisfactorily. Consultants have completed the first phase of the study of
the optimum structure and ownership of the Senegal Railway (together with the
connecting Mali Railway). Railway traffic in the fiscal year ending June 30,
1979 was slightly below that of the previous year due basically to reduced
motive power availability stemming from major accidents; this situation is
expected to improve following the delivery of two new high-power locomotives,
as well as critical spare parts for the locomotive rehabilitation program.
Cr. 764      Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of a three-year program to help improve the
efficiency of Government organizations charged with strategic analysis,
operational supervision, and formal financial control over the para-public
sector; and upgrading the auditing, financial management, and accounting
procedures for the sector as a whole and for a number of the most important
public enterprises and mixed companies. Consulting services and technical
assistance are in place, and work is progressing satisfactorily. Overall
guidance and direction by Project Management had not been very effective, but
Government has recently taken some very positive measures to remedy this
situation. Introductory training seminars for Government administrators and
staff in the control organizations have begun, with more intensive and
specialized courses planned to start in 1980. The audit component is pro-
gressing well, and there is already some improvement in the follow-up of
audit recommendations.
Cr. 775      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of 2,220 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED;
consulting services for applied research and studies for future development
of the River Valley. Works on the Lampsar perimeter are progressing satis-
factorily, and completion of land development is expected by July 1980.
Work on the Debi perimeter (financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement) is expected to start shortly. The technical assis-
tance team provided by the French FAC to strengthen SAED is now in place.



- 62 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Construction of project headquarters and training center are expected to start
by mid-1980. Consultants for the studies have been selected in agreement
with the Association.
Ln. 1665     Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18, 1979;
Effective November 15, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of strengthening and levelling the main
runway and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, and
installation of navigation and visual approach aids at regional airports at
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring. Design work and bidding procedures for the Dakar
airport have been satisfactorily completed, and work was started in July 1980
and is expected to be completed on schedule at the end of the year. Equipment
procurement is completed and contracts for civil works at Ziguinchor have been
satisfactorily awarded.
Cr. S-23     Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Effective August 10,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical studies
to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and extension of
water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six regional
capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operating
entities in the sector. Consultants have been selected in agreement with the
Association, and work was started in the fall of 1980.
Cr. 908      Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of May 23, 1979;
Effective August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is designed to increase the supply of high- and middle-
level technicians and managers required for the modern agricultural and
industrial sectors; improve and expand secondary technical and vocational
education; and improve the quality of primary education and establish a solid
base for its future expansion, especially in rural areas. Physical imple-
mentation of the major components is progressing satisfactorily. Tenders for
construction of the National College of Agriculture and the Technical Teacher
Training College, representing about 70% of the total civil works, are being
invited. Bidding documents are being prepared for equipment, valued at about
US$2.0 million, for two secondary technical schools, the Vocational Training
and Upgrading Center, and the Technical Teacher Training College. Imple-
mentation of the educational research and planning component has been delayed
by about six months following a Government review of the role of the proposed
Educational Research Institute.



- 63 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. 991       Small Rural Operations Project; US$11.0 million Credit of April 2,
1980; Effective September 10, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project focusses on channelling funds and technical services
to small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely: development of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing. The project also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive
activities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision
for a management structure.
Cr. 993       Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Loan and US$28.0 million
Ln. 1810      Credit of April 2, 1980; Not yet effective;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government's
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and
programming capacity and to rehabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components: (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government's soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in road mainte-
nance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance and
strengthening programs; (e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about 200 km
of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road (about 85
km) to two-lane, paved standards.
Cr. S-26-SE Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$3.3 million
Credit of June 18, 1980; Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to assist Government in
developing an overall energy plan and reorganizing the power sector. The
project also includes financial and tariff studies, and feasibility studies
for a headquarters building for the new power entity and for the expension of
the generating facilities.
Cr. 1061      Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning;
US$5.3 million Credit of October 27, 1980; Not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project would support and strengthen the Government's ability to
identify, select and prepare, monitor execution of, and evaluate retrospectively
its portfolio of development projects. It would strengthen also the public debt
monitoring, budgeting and forecasting capacity and improve coordination between
project needs and public financing.



- 64 -
ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Loan/Credit request to Bank/IDA:       September 1978
(b) Appraisal Mission:                     March 1980
(c) Completion of negotiations:            October 3, 1980
(d) Planned date of effectiveness:         February 1981
Section II: Special Bank/IDA Implementation Actions
The Bank/IDA will program frequent supervision missions and field
consultations with the Government, particularly in the area of public invest-
ments, agricultural institutions, and prices and incentives.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Counterpart funds would be deposited in a project account at the
Central Bank upon withdrawal of proceeds of the Loan/Credit, and
would be used to finance economic development expenditures of
para-public enterprises that have entered into a "contrat plan"
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA and the Government (para. 116);
(b) There would be annual reviews of progress made in carrying out
the structural adjustment programs outlined in the Government's
Policy Statement attached to the Prime Minister's letter of
October 31, 1980. The first review would take place before
March 31, 1981, and the release of the second tranche of the
Loan/Credit would, as a condition of disbursement, be subject to
the Bank/IDA being satisfied, on the basis of this first review,
with (i) the implementation of the increase in basic import duties
from 10 to 15 percent and the export premium of 15 percent of the
fob value of certain exports; (ii) the presentation of an investment
program for the period July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1985, along the
criteria laid down in the Prime Minister's letter to the Bank/IDA;
and (iii) more in general, progress on the rest of the agreed
structural adjustment program (para. 120);
(c) The establishment of the special account at the Central Bank
to finance eligible imports would be a condition of Loan/Credit
effectiveness (para. 118).



ANNEX IV
- 65 -
TRANSLATION FROM
ORIGINAL FRENCH
Office of the Prime Minister
Dakar, Senegal
No. 0439/PM/SP
October 31, 1980
Mr. Robert S. McNamara
President
World Bank Group
Washington DC
Mr. President:
Please find attached to this letter the text of a Declaration of
Economic Policy which the Government of Senegal has adopted as a structural
adjustment program covering the five-year period from July 1, 1980, through
June 30, 1985. This declaration outlines the economic and financial measures
which the Government is taking, or is planning to introduce, in particular
in the field of public finance, credit, balance of payments, prices, wages,
investment and agricultural policy. The purpose of these measures is to
correct the country's financial situation, and to increase its economic
growth in real terms to a level which would substantially surpass the rate
of population growth; at the same time, these measures are intended to reduce
income disparities between the urban and the rural populations.
The Government of Senegal would like to obtain long-term financial
assistance from the World Bank Group in support of this structural adjustment
program. In this context, the Government would wish to enter immediately
into agreements with the World Bank Group, under its structural adjustment
lending program, to obtain foreign exchange funds between July 1, 1980, and
December 31, 1981, equivalent to US$60 million, of which US$30 million in the
form of an IDA Credit and US$30 million as a Bank Loan.
The Government would also wish to enter into additional structural
adjustment agreements with the Association and the Bank during the period of
economic and financial rehabilitation.
The Government's request for structural adjustment lending is
explained on one hand by the existence of structural problems which are
preventing real economic growth and disrupting the balance of payments current
account, and on the other hand by the progressive worsening of Senegal's
economic and financial situation following a cycle of unfavorable climatic
.1.



- 66 -                                  ANNEX IV
Page 2
Mr. Robert S. McNamara                    - 2 -                October 31, 1980
conditions as well as a deterioration in the terms of trade. Implementation
of the reforms spelled out in the program will require a fairly long period
and will necessitate considerable external resources. The Government would
wish to benefit from increasing levels of financial and technical assistance
from the Bank Group in carrying out investment projects during the period of
structural adjustment reform.
I am convinced that execution of the program will allow Senegal
to gradually attain its stated objectives, but the Government is also prepared
to study any other measures necessary to achieve them. Accordingly, the
Government will have consultations with the World Bank Group at least once a
year throughout the period of structural adjustment to June 30, 1985. These
consultations will provide a forum for an exchange of views on progress made
and obstacles encountered in execution of the program. The first such
consultation will take place not later than March 31, 1981. The Government
will provide the Bank and the Association with all pertinent information
required to monitor execution of the program; to this end, the Government
stands ready to consult the Bank Group and discuss specific aspects of the
program at different stages of its execution.
Sincerely,
(signed)
Abdou Diouf
Prime Minister
Attachment:



- 67-                                   ANNEX IV
Page 3
DECLARATION ON ECONOMIC POLICY BY THE GOVERNMENT
OF SENEGAL
1.        The economic and financial stiuation in Senegal is a cxiuse for
concern, Our external deficit is unusually large and in terms of current
payments represents, on average, 16% of GDP for 1979 and 1980, which is twice
as high as in the past. The public sector deficit is also disturbingly large,
the main features being a decline in government savings and the massive
indebtedness to the banking system of several public bodies, especially ONCAD.
Credit expansion has averaged 25.5% annually over the last six years, which
has increased the pressure on domestic prices and the balance of payments.
2.        Senegal has suffered in particular from a series of natural
disasters and world events: six years of drought since 1968, series of
increases in the price of oil, for which the country depends entirely on
external sources, poor world prices for groundnut products, and finally the
sharp decline in phosphate prices after the rise in 1973/74.
3.        Given this situation the Government of Senegal is determined to
take the necessary stabilization and recovery measures that will ensure long-
term growth consistent with overall financial equilibrium. It counts on
technical and financial support from international organizations for the
execution of a number of measures programmed over several years.
4.        The stabilization effort that was made under extremely difficult
circumstances in 1978 and 1979 has produced tangible results as regards the
public finances. This effort will be continued as part of the medium-term
economic and financial recovery plan, whose main lines were presented to the
National Assembly by the Prime Minister on December 19, 1979. On August 8, 1980
the IMF approved a request for assistance in the amount of SDR 184.8 million
to support the 3-year economic program, which is intended to correct the
disequilibrium in the public finances and the balance of payments, while
orienting public investments towards productive sectors.
5.        This assistance from the IMF and that of the World Bank in the
shape of a loan and a credit for structural adjustment are complementary, in
that they both help finance the external deficit and support the entire program,
whose compornents were prepared by departments of the Government of Senegal in
close collaboration with World Bank and IMF experts.
6.        To improve the financial situation and to accelerate growth, the
Government envisages:
(a)   a continuing improvement in the management of the public
finances, the parapublic sector and the external debt, and
in the level of government savings, so as to ensure the
implementation of an adequate public investment program without
compromising Senegal's creditworthiness;
(b)   the introduction of a restrictive and selective credit policy;
(c)   the introduction of a new foreign trade policy;



- 68 -                                  ANNEX IV
Page 4
(d)   more systematic reliance on market mechanisms and economic
incentives to encourage private investment and guide national
production in the desired direction;
(e)   a reorientation of the national investment program towards the
most productive sectors and projects with the highest economic
return;   and
(f)   institutional reforms in the rural sector.
7.        Some of these actions are integral parts of the agreements reached
with the IMF, particularly in the area of finance, monetary policy and the
balance of payments.
I. Public Finances
8.        During 1980/1983, the rate of growth of current government expendi-
tures will be kept below that of current revenues; the share of outlays on
personnel (57% in the 1980/81 budget) will be progressively reduced;
expenditures for supplies will remain constant in real terms. Government
payment arrears to the private sector, which amounted to CFAF 12 billion in
March 1980, will be liquidated by June 1981. Forthis purpose the Government
intends to use special resources made available to it by France, STABEX
and the IMF.
9.        In addition to these measures aimed at balancing the budget as a
whole and restoring a sound financial situation, the Government has set
itself the objective of achieving public sector savings after debt service
equal to 15% of public investment planned for 1980/81; every effort will be
made to gradually raise this proportion to 25% for the last year of the sixth
development plan 1981/82-1984/85.
10.       Each year, on the basis of a realistic estimate of the public
external debt service and the other allocated income, the rate of the value
added tax (VAT) earmarked for the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) will
be established in the State budget. The proceeds of this tax will be regularly
deposited into a separate account in the Central Bank.
11.       The Government will carry out a policy of progressive disengagement
designed to cut back its financial participations and to reduce the role of
public enterprises in the economy. Moreover, public enterprises will hence-
forward operate within the framework of program contracts (contrats-plans)to
be concluded with the Government  during the structural adjustment program.
These contracts will clearly establish the functions, objectives and responsi-
bilities of each party, especially in the financial area. Before the contracts
are concluded, specific terms of reference (ordres de mission) may, if necessary,
be issued. These ordres de mission will specify the objectives assigned to
public bodies and mixed-economy corporations, the resulting financial obliga-
tions incurred by the State, and the period within which the contract must be
concluded. The Government intends to improve its financial management under
the Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning proposed
for financing by the International Development Association (IDA), and in



- 69 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5
particular will:
1. strengthen the management of the public debt:
(a) by improved monitoring of current contracts,
(b) by adopting a more flexible and effective strategy in its
relations with external financial markets, and
(c) by obtaining better information on the external debt situation;
2. upgrade the analysis of and projections for domestic savings through
a study of financial flows, especially in the public and parapublic
sectors; and
3. undertake a detailed study of recurrent expenditures with a view to
reducing them through the introduction of objective criteria or
comparisons with other countries.
II. Money and Credit
12.       The restrictive credit policy will be continued.  Interest rates
were already increased by 2.5% in April 1980 throughout the West African
Monetary Union. From October 1, 1980 onwards, the system of advance authori-
zations will be applied to requests for credit of or above CFAF 70 million
(instead of CFAF 100 million as before). Likewise, the banks will be
notified of the monthly criteria for credit expansion and a monthly ceiling
will be applied to the Central Bank's rediscount operations.
13.       This range of measures will limit credit expansion to 8% during
1980 as compared to its level in December 31, 1979, and in subsequent years to
levels compatible with the main economic objectives, especially those relating
to the balance of payments and prices.
14.       The ratio of the money supply to GDP will be gradually reduced below
the level prevailing in 1979.
III. Balance of Payments and External Debt
(a) Trade
15.       One of the priority goals in the recovery effort is to reduce the
current balance of payments deficit to a manageable level in the long-term;
this is estimated to be 6-7% of GDP in years of normal weather and in the
absence of external shocks such as a massive increase in oil prices.
16.       Under Senegal's traditional open trading policy, the key to success
lies in keeping imports within the strict requirements of the projected over-
all economic growth in the 1980s and, even more, in expanding and diversifying
exports.
17.       Concerning imports, the aim of the policies to restrict overall
demand is to keep the rate of growth of imports below that of GDP (at current
prices).
18.       From September 1980 onwards the customs duty on all imports was



- 70 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6
raised to 15% (it was increased from 0-5% to 10% in March 1980), except for
a small number of products. 1/
19.       The Government will make every effort not to increase the
disparities in the level of import duties on different products and not to
intensify existing quantitative restrictions.
20.       The stimulation of exports rests on the success of agricultural
policy, especially as regards groundnuts, cereals, and cotton; on the
expansion of phosphate production, including, in the longer term, the
phosphoric acid production project included in the Plan, and finally on the
development of non-traditional exports (that is, other than groundnut products
and phosphates).
21        The Government has identified five priority industrial sectors that
have the necessary production capacity and that offer real export possi-
bilities, especially to European markets. These sectors, apart from cotton,
are: textiles, including ready-made articles and knitted goods, footwear,
fertilizers, agricultural equipment and canned fish products. Together they
represented about 15% of FOB exports of goods in 1979 and about one-third of
non-traditional exports. From September 1980 onwards these sectors are to
receive an export subsidy equal to 10% of the FOB value of the products.
It is expected that the cost of these export subsidies will be more than
covered by the additional revenue deriving from the increase in customs
duties, and that there will be a net surplus of between CFAF 1 and 2 billion
during financial year 1980/1981.
22.       The Government will progressively extend subsidies to all exports,
except phosphates and groundnut products. Since this is a new kind of operation,
it will be necessary to evaluate the results in due time and if necessary to
improve the system before extending its application to other export sectors,
which is at present planned to occur before the end of June 1983. The Government
will also examine the advantages of reducing the export taxes on phosphates and
groundnut products.
(b) External Debt
23.       The Government is particularly anxious to maintain Senegal's
creditworthiness.  To this end, it will make every effort to limit the yearly
service on external public debt, both direct and guaranteed by the State,
in a normal year, to an amount equivalent to 15% of earnings from exports
of goods and services.
1/ Seeds of all kinds, inputs for the textile industry, postage stamps, books,
and other cultural material (including movies), products required for the
campaign to promote the use of butane, medicinal and pharmaceutical products
(including pesticides and veterinary products), ocean-going fishing boats,
and passenger transport aircraft for international routes; all imports from
WAEC and ECOWAS countries in accordance with the treaties currently in force,
and also certain programs under the investment code.



- 71 -                                  ANNEX IV
Page 7
24.       Within this framework, the Government undertakes to keep its
external borrowings (both direct and guaranteed) within the following limits:
- borrowings with a maturity of between 1 and 12 years: CFAF 16
billion between June 30, 1980 and June 30, 1981;
- borrowings with a maturity of between 1 and 5 years: CFAF 2
billion through June 30, 1981.
25.       In addition, and subject to the ceilings indicated above, the
Government will limit the use of borrowings of a commercial nature to
directly productive projects. As a result, such borrowingswill not be used
to finance the general budget. Should the need arise to undertake such
borrowings for the general budget, the Government would consult with the
Bank on the necessary measures to be taken. Through the program contracts
or ordres de mission to be agreed with enterprises in the public and para-
public sector, Government will ensure that commercial borrowing by such
enterprises will only be considered if the related debt service can be
financed from the entity's own cash flow.
IV. Prices and Wages
26.       The Government proposes to vigorously pursue the steps it has
already taken to implement its policy of true economic prices. Thus, except
for four sensitive food products/l, which will remain under a system of Government
fixed prices (taxation), all prices of goods and services, other than agricultural
producer prices for certain crops, will be subject either to preliminary approval
(homologation), or to monitored reporting (declaration controlee) or will be
entirely uncontrolled as of the end of 1980.
27.       Producer prices for groundnuts and cotton will be fixed each year
(before the end of April) at the highest possible level compatible with the
anticipated export price and the intermediate costs incurred for collection
and storage. At the same time, the Government's actions with regard to
agriculture, as described below, will seek to reduce to an absolute economic
minimum the margins between producer prices and export prices.
28.       In pursuit of its policy of reducing direct subsidies for
for the local market, the Government raised prices for the following staples
early in 1980: groundnut oil, bread and sugar. The only subsidy that will be
retained in the framework of Government's agricultural program is that on
fertilizers.
29.       The Government will make every effort, through the intermediary
of the Price Equalization and Stabilization Fund (Caisse de Perequation et
de Stabilisation des Prix) to avoid excessive seasonal or year-to-year
fluctuations in the prices of basic necessities, particularly cereals. This
desire to maintain a measure of price stability will not, however, be allowed
to stand in the way of the principle of true pricing, particularly for major
foodstuffs.
1/ Rice, bread, sugar and groundnut oil.



- 72 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8
30.       The Government will continue to pay particular attention to changes
in wage levels, in order to keep increases within the limits of the projected
growth in GDP and domestic consumption in coming years. In July 1980, civil
service salaries were raised by 7%, and workers in the private sector have
been promised a small wage increase in January 1981. Once these increases
have been implemented, wages will be adjusted only once a year. The adjust-
ments will be based on 60% of the rise in the consumer price index since the
previous wage increase, plus the growth in real terms of per capita GDP over the
same period.
V. Investment Policy
31.       Under the Sixth Plan (1981-85), the Government will pursue its
efforts to increase the investment rate while safeguarding the major macro-
economic equilibria and, in particular, the objective of reducing the ex-
ternal deficit on current account.
32.       The macroeconomic objectives that the Government has set itself
are as follows:
- maintenance of fixed investment during the Plan period
within an overall budget of CFAF 430 billion (in 1980 prices),
corresponding on average to just below 17% of GDP, and 10%
of GDP for public investment alone. The sum of the programmed
projects will be compatible with these limits; however, given
the slippage that customarily occurs in execution of the Plan,
this total may exceed the ceiling by some 10%;
- allocation of close to 55% of investment expenditures to
directly productive sectors, this proportion to be respected
as from the first two years of the Plan;
- increase in the contribution of public savings from 15% of
public investment at the start of the period to 25% by the
end of the period.
33.       If a long-term GDP growth rate of 4% a year on average is to be
achieved, given the overall financing constraint, it is particularly important
to improve the economic rate of return on investments. Achievement of this
goal presumes, in the first instance, a judicious choice of projects.
The Government will select the proposed investment projects with
a view to substantially improving the economic rate of return on the entire
program, while maximizing to the extent possible the benefits for the balance
of payments and the level of employment, and making optimum use of foreign
concessional loans. In general, for all projects to which this procedure can
reasonably be applied, an internal economic rate of return will be cal-
culated in accordance with the standard rules, which will then be compared
with the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Senegal. For those pro-
jects and sectors where this economic calculation is not applicable, the
Government will systematically seek out the least costly solution to achieve
the goals set. The planning authorities will be strengthened, and a strict
and uniform method of analysis will be systematically applied to all projects



- 73 -                                 ANNEX IV
Page 9
costing more than CFAF 100 million included in the Plan. In this regard,
the Government looks forward to the speedy and effective implementation of
the facilities to be provided under the Technical Assistance Project for
Economic and Financial Planning approved by the International Development
Association in August 1980.
34.       An improved rate of return on investment also presumes that cor-
rective measures will be applied to projects, wherever necessary, in light of expe-
rience gained. For this reason, the Government attaches particular impor-
tance to establishing a unit for ex post evaluation of public sector projects
also envisaged in the above Technical Assistance Project.
35.       The Government also proposes to organize yearly consultations with
the World Bank on the status of projects included in the Plan and will keep
the World Bank informed of any changes.
VI.  Actions in the Agricultural Sector
36.       Government policy for the rural sector has the following priority
objectives:
(a)   development of food crops with a view to gradually increasing
the percentage of domestic production to meet Senegal's basic
food needs;
(b)   stepping up and diversifying agricultural production while
increasing the value of agricultural exports by further pro-
cessing, thus deriving the maximum possible benefit from the
comparative advantages offered by the sector;
(c)   encouraging farmers to accept more responsibility by providing
them with extension services and training in cooperative organi-
zation, so as to enhance their capability to manage their own
affairs; and, consequently
(d)   increasing the incomes of farm families and improving the
quality of life in the countryside.
37.       To achieve these policy objectives, the Government had earlier
established a set of instruments and institutions, including:
- the cooperative movement, which allowed the dismantling of
traditional crop purchasing arrangements through middlemen;
- expansion of credit to provide farmers with inputs under
Government's agricultural program implemented by the Office
National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement (ONCAD):
- the regional agencies for rural development, which provide the
farmers with technical assistance and advice.
Despite the satisfactory results achieved on several fronts, external factors
(a number of catastrophic droughts, and the unfavorable trend in world prices
for Senegal's agricultural exports) and weaknesses that developed in the system
have led to the recent stagnation in agricultural production and exports.



- 74 -                                ANNEX IV
Page 10
38.       This situation has pointed to the need for far-reaching changes in
the way in which the State intervenes in the farming sector. Aware of this, the
Government is firmly committed to undertaking such changes and has studied a series
of reforms, some of which have already been introduced. These reforms relate both
to the structure and functioning of existing or future organizations, as well as
to the very nature of State intervention. The key objective is to raise the
level of involvement among farmers in order to limit the role of the
State to that of providing incentives and technical guidance, and thus to
reduce the cost of State intervention.
39.       The basis of the reform may be summarized as follows:
(a)   a marketing and producer price policy designed to promote
production of foodstuffs and agricultural exports;
(b)   a reorganization of the national agencies and regional societies
for rural development with a view to decentralizing their
management, reducing their cost of operation, and increasing their
efficiency;
(c)   a reorganization of the distribution of seeds and other inputs
and an overhaul of input prices;
(d)   rectification of the member accounts of cooperatives and a
restructuring of the agricultural credit terms and conditions with
the collaboration of Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal (BNDS);
(e)   reorganization and improvement of the procedures for collecting and
weighing groundnut crops, now entrusted to cooperatives and oil
mills;
(f)   encouragement of private initiative in the marketing field;
(g)   creation and development of village sections within the
cooperatives;
(h)   orientation of agricultural research on global farming systems
in conjunction with the development agencies.
40.       "Incentive prices" policy in agriculture.  The Government intends
to apply an agricultural pricing policy designed to stimulate production and
productivity in the rural sector. Separate measures are foreseen for
export crops and food crops.
41        With regard to export products, producer prices will have to repre-
sent a large enough share of the corresponding world prices to encourage farmers
in modernizing their farms. The Government has already taken major steps in
this direction by setting and maintaining remunerative prices for groundnuts
and cotton. Its policy of subsidizing agricultural foodstuffs was phased
out over the period 1975-79. Its levies on groundnut sales are now limited
to theamount sufficient to cover fertilizer subsidies. Despite the fall in
world prices, the Government raised groundnut prices from CFAF 45.5 per kilo



-75 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11
in 1979/80 to CFAF 50 per kilo in 1980/81 and cotton prices from CFAF 55
to CFAF 60 per kilo, The aim of the future pricing policy will be to adapt
producer prices of export products (groundnut, cotton) to medium-term world
market prospects; nevertheless, account will also be taken of the need to
maintain a proper balance among the producer prices of the va 1ius agricul-
tural products.
42.        The pricing policy for cereals (in particular, millet) takes account
of the objective to increase the degree of food self-sufficiency of the country.
To achieve this, the producer prices of cereals are designed to provide an
incentive and to keep in line with those of export products. At the end of
the present crop year, and again at the end of the 1981/82 crop year, the
Government will ask for an independent and exhaustive evaluation of the way
the present system of millet marketing operates in practice from the standpoint
of the producer, the consumer and the State. In the long run, the Government's
aim is to create a nationwide cereals market. Within the policy framework
of greater farmers' involvement, the Government will ensure that the producers
(farmers, village sections and cooperatives) have access to the financial and
material resources, as well as to the required training that will enable them
to participate fully in this market. To create the basis for an efficient
market, the Government intends to gradually remove physical obstacles to the
free movement of cereals (lack of feeder roads, etc.) and other obstacles that
contribute to the fractioning of the market. It has now abolished the restric-
tions of interregional transfers of cereals. The Government will seek to restrict its
intervention in the millet market to stockpiling and minimizing seasonal fluctua-
tions in food supply. Apart from the food aid it may receive in emergencies, it
will keep buffer stocks within the framework of a budget compatible with the fi-
nancial constraints on the State. In the first analysis, the cost of forming
these stocks should not exceed CFAF 1.5 billion (1980 francs).
43.       The consumer prices of imported food products are chiefly determined
by import costs.
44.       A study of an agricultural prices model has been entrusted to
SONED with a view to establishing the economic bases for an appropriate
agricultural pricing structure. The annual product prices will be set in
good time before the start of each year's agricultural program.
45.       The Government will emphasize efforts to reduce the cost of inter-
vention by the agencies responsible for supplying inputs and marketing
agricultural products. The expected gains from these measures will either
be used to offset the financial losses suffered by the Government in the
rural sector, or be passed on to the farmers through an increase in the prices
offered for their crops (groundnuts, cotton, cereals and others). In the
future, the Government will not lose sight of all the possible advantages of
additional incentives, such as export subsidies for certain industrial
products.



- 76 -                                 ANNEX IV
Page 12
46.       The Government has made a study of the cereal storage system and
has already constructed some storage facilities.
47.       Reorganization of rural development institutions (Government
agencies and regional societies). The dissolution of ONCAD on October 31,
1980 is an indication of Government's intention to limit the role of the
public sector.  Groundnut marketing will henceforth be the responsibility of
the cooperatives, which will deliver their production directly to the oil
mills. The latter will organize a collection service comprising about 60
purchasing centers distributed throughout the production areas, The coopera-
tive movement has become the responsibility of the regional rural development
agencies, under the guidance of the Department of Cooperation, which is now
an integral part of the Ministry of Rural Development.
48.       However, to ensure efficient input distribution and to maintain a
reserve of quality seed, public sector intervention is still necessary,
pending the results of the studies and tests now being made with a view to
entrusting these responsibilities to the suppliers of inputs, the regional
societies and the cooperative movement. Thus the village sections of the
cooperatives should develop in such a way that they can be entrusted with
seed management, while the ongoing tests of direct input supplies from the
manufacturers to the cooperatives will ascertain the viability of new
distribution circuits.
49,       Pending the results of these studies and tests, and in view of the
dissolution of ONCAD, the Government has created a new agency to supply the
farmers (SONAR). However, the Government's intention is that SONAR should
have a light, flexible and economic structure since, by definition, its
activity should be gradually transferred to the suppliers of inputs and to
the farmer organizations (cooperatives and village section). In this spirit,
SONAR has no monopoly on input distribution. With respect to seed, as the
responsibility for this item is gradually transferred to the village sections,
SONAR's reserves will be limited to the quantity needed for mandatory renewal
and maintenance of buffer stocks.
50.       The Government does not want SONAR to inherit ONCAD's problems,
particularly from the financial point of view. For this reason, it will be
setting up appropriate financing circuits, so that especially SONAR does
not have to provide either direct or indirect financing for fertilizer subsidies.
51.       The Government has set up a study group to prepare proposals for
submission to it in October 1980, covering, inter alia:
(a)   a precise definition of the tasks entrusted to SONAR, their
future development, and the manner in which these tasks will be
gradually transferred to the farmer organizations;
(b)   the optimum organization to be set up, in the form of a detailed
organization chart for central and regional services, and the
number and qualifications of the necessary personnel and the
term of appointment;



-77-                                    ANNEX IV
Page 13
(c)   a detailed budget showing SONAR's costs in 1980-81, by product
and cost center;
(d)   financial resources: equity capital, permanent and seasonal
res&urces required, and proposed financing circuits to ensure
the financing for structural expenses and for the agricultural
program, including subsidies;
(e)   the agricultural credit recovery mechanism (seed and inputs);
(f)   estimated requirements in terms of technical assistance;
(g)   the necessary degree of autonomy, in keeping with SONAR's
statutes.
In addition, proposals will be prepared relative to the partial or total
recovery of SONAR's recurrent charges from the beneficiaries of its services.
52.       The dissolution of ONCAD, entailing the dismissal of its personnel,
has given rise to social and financial problems that are difficult to solve.
The Government has made the necessary arrangements to draw up a liquidation
statement for ONCAD by the end of the first half of 1981. By June 30, 1981,
the Government will prepare:
(a)   a list of the arrangements for settling ONCAD's liabilities
vis-a-vis both its suppliers and the banks;
(b)   a report on the number and qualifications of the ONCAD personnel
who have been re-hired by SONAR or by other public or parapublic
enterprises.
53.       The regional rural development societies will become the principal
agents providing assistance to the cooperatives and promoting rural develop-
ment. The purpose of these societies will be to set up flexible management
systems in which the project units and subregional organizations close to the
village communities will have the necessary autonomy and human and financial
resources to provide their personnel with the necessary mobility and enable
them to play their assigned role of assisting the cooperatives and providing
extension services to the farmers.
54.       On May 29, 1979, an interministerial council decided to reorganize
SAED. In March 1980, the reorganization team was set up and, at the same
time, a committee with responsibility for following up reorganization propo-
sals with the Prime Minister. The purpose of this reorganization is to work
out a new internal structure for SAED based on autonomy of the irrigation perime-
ters and participation by the farmers in their management. Pursuant to the
decisions of the interministerial council, new organizational structures were
set up at Lampsar, Telle-Grande Digue and the Dambo Thiago perimeters
in August 1980. Under these circumstances, the Government considers that a
greater degree of management responsibility can be accorded to SAED. With
this in view, SAED will shortly be transformed into a national corporation



- 78 -                                  ANNEX IV
Page 14
(societe nationale). The Government will draw up, before December 31, 1980,
the operational regulations for SAED, together with proposals for its financial
rehabilitation. Short-term goals and action programs for SAED are in the process
of being worked out in the context of the studies on development of the
left bank of the Senegal River which started in July 1980.
55.       In order to achieve these goals, program contracts or ordres de
mission will be agreed between the agencies and the Government. They will
be based on studies already in progress or to be undertaken on the goals,
organizational structure anid resource requirements of the agencies. The
program contracts or ordres de mission will put forward action programs for
each of the agencies, provide each with the financial structure and working
capital necessary for its operation, and set out the reciprocal financial
obligations of the agencies and Government. Within this framework, the
agencies will have the needed autonomy for staff recruitment and management
but will be required to make cuts in personnel in line with their needs
and financial resources. They will also have to submit programs for training
and recycling of their middle-level managerial staff.
56.       Generally speaking, the restructuring of the rural sector should
be accompanied by a general review of the organization and personnel needs
of the sector as a whole, including SONAR, the regional agencies, the centra-
lized services and their regional branches and the Centres d'Expansion rurale
polyvalents. This structural reorganization, which may call for amalgamation of
certain competing services, will aim at improving the quality and motivation of staff
working in the field but should not result in an increase in the number
of staff nor in the total real costs of the sector.
57.       The Price Stabilization and Equalization Fund (Caisse de Perequation
et de Stabilisation des Prix, CPSP) will also be reorganized. The Government
has already abolished the subsidies for consumer goods through CPSP and
intends to increase the price of these goods in line with cost increases,
including the 15% import duty on such goods. As noted earlier, the subsidies
for equipment for the agricultural program have already been eliminated:
the level of fertilizer subsidies will be reviewed once the conclusions of
the study on fertilizing techniques have been approved. A study is to be
made of the financial management of CPSP. This study will include examina-
tion of means of assisting farmers adversely affected by the drought without
going so far as to cancel debts, which would weaken the basic principles of
agricultural credit. The study will propose methods of financing such
special assistance, including partial allocation of STABEX funds for this
purpose, and a permenent system of financing agricultural program subsidies
without putting CPSP into deficit. The Government will adopt the principle
that the CPSP should have the structure and required means which, under normal
conditions, would allow this organization to finance the subsidies it pays out--
in particular the fertilizer subsidy--from the financial surpluses on imported
and exported commodities that pass through this organization so that no
recourse has to be taken to advances from the Treasury or bank credit. If,
under exceptional circumstances, a shortfall of funds in the CPSP should occur,
the Treasury would provide the CPSP, for a limited period, with sufficient funds
to continue its operations. Such an exceptional shortfall could arise, for
example, if a bad crop coincides with a fall in world prices. The Government



- 79 -                                 ANNEX IV
Page 15
will give the CPSP an appropriate measure of financial autonomy in the
framework of a program contract (or ordres de mission) and its own account
with the Central Bank under final responsibility of the Treasury, before July
31, 1981; the CPSP will also participate in decisions concerning the fixation
of relevant producer and consumer prices in the framework of the Government's
agricultural program.
58.       Reorganization of the distribution of seed and other production
factors and review of prices. The Government will attempt to improve advisory
services to farmers on existing techniques through the reorganization of
the regional rural development agencies, which is already in progress. New
methods are being tested in the two departements covered by the revised
Sine Saloum project, in the Louga region and in the Mbour departement of
the Thies region.
59.       Because of inadequate storage methods, but primarily because of
unexpected weatherconditions, the quality of the seed stocks has seriously
deteriorated; moreover, the management of the seed credit program has
suffered from the same accounting irregularities as agricultural credit
accounts. The Government has already reduced from 25% to 12.5% the rate of
the annual levy in kind for seed distributed at the beginning of the season.
In addition, under the revised Sine Saloum project, SODEVA (the agency for
Agricultural Development and Extension Services) has undertaken to carry out
trials in the project zones of measures aimed at expanding village seed
storage capacity and disseminating knowledge of established methods of seed
protection. The Government is prepared to transfer management of the seed
stocks in stages to the new village sections of the cooperatives as soon as
sufficient funds have been made available to reimburse SONAR for its contri-
butions to building up these local seed stocks, and on the understanding
that the village sections will be provided with seed storage bins entities.
60.       With a view to improving the quality and effectiveness of the
agricultural program (the ordering and delivery of inputs: fertilizer and
agricultural equipment), the Government will establish mechanisms to link
the regional rural development agencies with the preparation of orders and
distribution of inputs. Furthermore, also under the revised Sine Saloum
project, SONAR, in conjunction with SODEVA, will try out systems of direct
delivery by the manufacturers of the inputs needed by small farmers to the
SONAR distribution centers and to the cooperatives.
61.       To keep CPSP and SONAR on a sound financial footing, avoid waste
in use of inputs and facilitate direct sales by manufacturers to users, the
Government is endeavoring to extend its policy of true economic prices to
production factors: the subsidies for equipment under the agricultural
program were eliminated on July 31, 1980; the recommended fertilizing methods
and the level of fertilizer subsidies will be periodically reviewed in the
light of progress made in applied research and of increased farm productivity
with the aim of gradually reducing these subsidies.
62.       Overhaul of agricultural credit.  The Government has announced
in principle a rescheduling over a period of five years of debts (for inputs
and seed) due at the end of 1980. This measure is justified by the poor
1979/1980 harvest, by the distinctly unsatisfactory state of the accounts of
ONCAD and the cooperatives, and by the scale of unpaid debts accumulated



- 80 -                                  ANNEX IV
Page 16
since 1977.
63.       SODEVA has embarked on a first program of auditing the accounts of
cooperative members in the two departements of the Sine Saloum zone in the
Mbour departement. It is the intention of the Government to extend these
audits to the whole territory so that it can present a revised and approved
statement of the debts of the cooperatives and the farmers within two
years. In view of the substantial crop fluctuations from one year to another,
the Government has decided to put a ceiling on credits so that debts cannot
amount to more than 25% of the value of production in a normal year.
64.       The Government will also ensure that BNDS, SONAR and the regional
rural development agencies introduce more precise methods of recording loans
and repayments at the level of the village sections, together with regular
audit procedures by BNDS at the close of each crop season. BNDS is prepared
to open individual accounts for each village section that so requests.
65.       The actual terms of credit will be tailored to the size of the farm
and the categories of equipment ordered.  Theproposed changes include reintro-
duction of the initial downpayment and personal liability regarding loans
for heavy equipment (to avoid overloading the borrowing capacity of small
farmers bound together by joint and multiple liability). Loan recovery will
be reinforced by restoring the link with marketing of production. The rate
of the levy imposed should not, however, be above a reasonable percentage
(25% of the harvest in a normal year), beyond which the farmer would tend to
resort to fraud or would lose interest in producing and in marketing his
production. The terms of reference for a study on reorganization of agri-
cultural credit have been approved. It is expected that the study will be
conducted during 1980 and the first quarter of 1981. It will propose inter
alia adjustments in the structure of BNDS to enable it to meet its new
responsibilities vis-a-vis the cooperatives and their village sections.
66.        Overhaul of groundnut collection and weighing operations.
The marketing of groundnuts by ONCAD has led to abuses at all levels, result-
ing in unaccountable transport, handling and storage losses, most of which
are borne by the cooperative members and by ONCAD. These losses were due to
inadequate supervision of weighing at all stages of marketing (cooperatives,
transport, storage, middlemen). The Government has decided to make the coop-
eratives responsible for quantity and quality control at their level, and
marketing agencies (the oil mills) responsible for any losses occurring after
they have taken delivery of the product at their marketing depots (secco).
Starting this year, a system will be tried out of separate weighing of the
village sections' production at the collection points in order to avoid losses
at that level. In addition, the Government is having a groundnut marketing
study made aimed at reducing costs (particularly handling costs and those
arising from weight losses).
67.       Encouragement of private enterprise in marketing.  As regards
marketing, the state monopoly of millet distribution has already been abolished
in order to encourage development of a system of marketing by approved private
traders; the rice monopoly has been transferred to CPSP, which will also
operate through private traders; and marketing of maize and sorghum will remain
in the hands of the private sector.



- 81 -                             ANNEX IV
Page 17
68.       Creation and development of village sections within the cooperatives
(sections villageoises). The Government and the regional rural development
agencies will encourage the formation of village sections within the coopera-
tives. The system will be introduced in two departments of the Sine Saloum
experimental area by June 30, 1981. The purpose of these village
will be to provide a sounder basis for the system of joint and multiple liabi-
lity in the matter of credit, and to ensure farmer participation in the primary
marketing process and in any other tasks the cooperatives may wish to under-
take, by returning to these village cooperatives substantial marketing rebates
or payments for services rendered. Active participation by the village
sections will be made more effective through a functional literacy program for
their representatives. The development funds currently blocked at the BNDS
level could be returned to those cooperatives that have taken steps to settle
their debts, allowing for the five-year moratorium.
69.       Reorganization of agricultural research.  Agricultural research has
led to significant improvement in farming techniques whose determination is
being fostered by the Government's agricultural services and the regional
rural development agencies. Subsequent evaluations have shown the worth of
some of these methods. However, although it is true that their dissemination
has suffered from the uneven quality of the agricultural extension services
and from weaknesses in the system of inputs distribution, recent SODEVA/IFDS
studies have pointed out the need to re-examine certain currently used methods
of fertilizing groundnuts and millet.
70.       The Government intends to continue a policy of improvement in agri-
cultural research, but with a new emphasis on studying the constraints on
small farms through an interdisciplinary research program covering global
cultivation rather than focusing on specific problems in isolation. The
research will be organized by natural region: (i) the Fleuve region
will be the focus for irrigation as well as mixed crop and livestock farming;
(ii) the pasture area for extensive stockraising; (iii) the groundnut basin
for intensive rainfed agriculture and the existing association of crop culti-
vation with livestock; and (iv) Casamance for intensive stockraising and
farming systems based on paddy rice.



- 82 -
ANNEX V
Appendix 1
Page 1
SENEGAL - Structural Adjustment Loan and Development Credit
Chronology of Key Dates for Monitoring
Final Date                          Topic                        Monitoring by Bank
Dec. 31, 1980       Fertilizer Recommendations on                Consultation
Grades and Quantitites
Dec. 31, 1980       Update Cereals Storage Study                 Terms of reference
Dec. 31, 1980       Study on Marketing and Pricing of            Decision on terms of
Food Crops                                   reference
Dec. 31, 1980       Organizational Structure SONAR               Decision
Dec. 31, 1980       Substance of contrat plan for SAED           Submission for Bank
and ordre de mission SODEVA                  review
Dec. 31, 1980       Investment Program                           Sectoral consultations
Jan. 31, 1981       Technical Assistance Project                 First supervision
March 31, 1981      General Progress under the Program           Submission of progress
related to 2nd tranche release               report
(followed by annual reviews);
implementation of specific
conditions (a) investment                 Final list of projects
program for VIth Plan; (b) basic
import duties at 15% and export           Actual implementation
premiums for test products at
10% of fob value.
March 31, 1981      Reorganization of Agricultural               Discussions
Agencies
March 31, 1981      Financial Reorganization of CPSP             Discussion of results
March 31, 1981      Methodology and calendar for                 Discussions
Auditing of Cooperatives' Accounts
March 31, 1981      Study on Relative Agricultural Prices        Submission of study
Mlarch 31, 1981     Determination of Farmgate Prices for         Consultation
Crop 1981/82
March 31, 1981      New Fertilizer Formulas and Prices           Consultation
for Crop 1982/83
March 31, 1981      Evaluation of Current Marketing and          Discussions
Pricing System of Traditional
Cereals (mainly Millet)
*..



- 83 -
ANNEX V
Appendix I
Page 2
Final Date                               Topic                    Mo7>.-. cring by Bank
March 31, 1981        Tests on Transfer of Seed Stocks to         Discussions
Producers (subject to more
frequent discussions)
*     March 31, 1981        Reorganization Agricultural                  Negotiation of project
Research
May 31, 1981          Increase in net public savings to a         Consultation
Level of at least 15% of Public
Investments
May 31, 1981          Central Bank-Account for Government's       Opening of Account
Sinking Fund
May 31, 1981          Test with Export Premiums on Increased    Consultations
1rection Levels
June 30, 1981         Contrat plans or ordres de mission:         Submission for review
substance of two more agreements
for Agricultural Agencies
June 30, 1981         Liquidation of ONCAD:
_(a)  Financial Statements               Submission
(b)  Solutions for remaining            Consultation
liabilities
June 30, 1981         Study on Reorganization of Agri-            Submission for review
cultural credit
June 30, 1981         Study of cereal storage, marketing          Submission for review
and pricing systems
June 30, 1981         Study and recommendations on costs          Submission of study
of groundnut marketing
Dec. 31, 1981         Debt Service Ratio limit 15%                Consultation
June 30, 1983         Export Premiums and Protection              Decision on final
Domestic Levels                          modalities and levels



- 84 -
ANNEX V
Appendix 2
Page 1
DESCRIPTION OF AGRICULTURAL AGENCIES
ONCAD
The Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au De'veloppement
(ONCAD) is a public enterprise established in 1966 to take over assistance
to and supervision of cooperatives from regional farmers' organizations. In
1967/68, ONCAD was given the responsibility for procuring farm inputs for
cooperatives, and purchasing groundnuts from them for sale to OCAS (Office
de Commercialisation Agricole du Se'ne'gal); OCAS in turn was responsible
for exports or sale of groundnuts to the crushing mills, and also for rice
imports and marketing. In 1971, Government dissolved OCAS, and ONCAD took
over its activities.
With time, ONCAD's responsibilities were expanded to include the
marketing of all agricultural products except cotton, and the handling,
storage and distribution of groundnut seeds to farmers. In August 1980,
however, owing to increasing criticism of ONCAD's performance, the Government
decided to dissolve the agency. Marketing of groundnuts is now organized by
the crushing mill companies. Rice imports and marketing is being carried out
by the Stabilization Fund, and millet marketing by licensed private whole-
salers.
SONAR
Also in August 1980, Government decided to establish SONAR, the
national company for supply of inputs to the rural sector. SONAR, which
is not yet formally established, would be responsible for management of
groundnut seed stocks and for distribution of farm inputs through the
cooperative network. Unlike ONCAD, SONAR has no monopoly, and studies are
underway to allow the private sector to play an important role in this
function.



-85-                               ANNEX V
Appendix 2
Page 2
SODEVA
The Agricultural Development and Extension Agency SODEVA was
established in 1968 by Government as a "mixed enterprise" to take over and
expand the agricultural extension and development work of SATEC, a French
technical assistance agency, in the Groundnut Basin of Senegal covering the
regions of Sine Saloum, Thies, Diourbel and Louga. SODEVA's main functions
have included: (i) improvement of agricultural production at the farm level;
(ii) extension of technical packages aimed at increasing yields of groundnuts,
Senegal's main cash crop, and promotion of maize, millet and sorghum culti-
vation in the Basin; and (iii) integration of livestock development with
smallholder crop production.
Participation in SODEVA's CFAF 100 million capital is as follows;
55.1% Government, 20.0% ONCAD, 10.0% BNDS, 10.0% SATEC, 3.55% CPSP, and
1.35% cooperatives. SODEVA has no revenue-earning activities, and has
operated in part from budget allocations through the Ministry of Rural
Development, its tutelar ministry, but mostly through external aid agree-
ments. It has so far received funds for specific projects from the Bank/IDA,
USAID, the French CCCE and FAC, the European Development Fund, the Interna-
tional Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), and Iran.
At end 1979, SODEVA employed about 1,880 people (including eight
expatriates), about double the employment level in 1974 (992). SODEVA has
a Director General appointed by an 11-member Board of Directors, and is
directly responsible to the Ministry of Rural Development, which assures
annual budget allocations and secondment of civil servants to the agency.
SODEVA's headquarters is located in Dakar, but it has offices in all the
four regions responsible for execution of its regional programs. SODEVA
has two main departments -- Management, overseeing general administration;
and Technical, supervising ongoing field operations and planning new activi-
ties.



- 86 -
ANNEX V
Appendix 2
Page 3
SODEFITEX
SODEFITEX was established in 1974 to take over the activities of
the Compagnie Fran,aise pour le Dbveloppement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT).
SODEFITEX is a "mixed" company with a social capital of CFAF 750 million,
and owned 80% by Government, 6% by the CPSP, and 14% by CFDT. SODEFITEX is
responsible for: (i) direct marketing and ginning of cotton; (ii) marketing
of cereals and selected seeds on behalf of ONCAD; (iii) supplying factors
of production for cotton producers, and supplying inputs for contract
farmers producing maize and rice for ONCAD's account; (iv) assuring credit
reimbursement by farmers; and (v) providing extension services to farmers
for all crops in the major cotton-growing areas, including development of
irrigated rice production. The agency operates mainly in Eastern Senegal,
Upper Casamance, and to some extent the Sine Saloum Regions. SODEFITEX
has its headquarters in Dakar, and employs a permanent staff of about 450,
most of them in the four regional offices (two in Eastern Senegal and two in
Casamance). The Technical Department is located in Eastern Senegal, and
the Training Department in Sine Saloum.
SODEFITEX' working capital requirements are met by proceeds from
cotton marketing, advances from CFDT and BNDS in the form of short-term
credits, and external sources which provide funds for specific projects.
Any excess of revenue over expenditure received by SODEFITEX is refunded
to the Stabilization Fund. The agency is run by a Director-General
appointed by a Board of Directors and assisted by four regional directors.
SODEFITEX, like all agricultural development agencies in Senegal, is res-
ponsible to the Ministry of Rural Development.



-  87  -
ANNEX V
Appendix 2
Page 4
SOMIVAC
SOMIVAC was created in July 1976 as a public enterprise.  It
was established to promote development of the rural sector in Casamance, and
has as its main objectives: (i) the undertaking of agricultural investment
programs to improve cereal, cash crop and vegetable production, as well as
the integration of livestock and crop production; (ii) maintenance of
irrigation perimeters financed by the State; (iii) coordination of all rural
development projects being undertaken by independent project units in the
region; (iv) processing and selling, in agreement with ONCAD, of agricultural
products; and (v) provision of extension services and training to farmers and
cooperatives.
SOMIVAC is financed partly from the Government Budget, but mostly
through the semi-autonomous projects integrated into the SOMIVAC structure
that are funded almost entirely by foreign donors.l/ Together with the
staff employed in the three projects integrated into SOMIVAC, the agency
employed a totalof 443 persons in 1979, and had a budget of about CFAF
1,700 million. It is managed by a Director General appointed by the Minister
of Rural Development, with the heads of all the autonomous project units
directly responsible to him. In addition, SOMIVAC has departments dealing
with Administration, Finance, Studies and Monitoring, Rural Development,
and Technical Operations.
Like SAED, SOMIVAC is a public enterprise and has two tutelar
ministries, Finance and Economic Affairs and Rural Development. It is
subject to a priori financial control by the Center for Public Enterprises
which limits considerably its financial autonomy, and hence its effective-
ness. The Ministry of Rural Development is supposed to second civil ser-
vants to the agency and to assure its general strategy, but it has sometimes
become too involved in day-to-day management, thereby limiting the agency's
effectiveness.
1/ The project units integrated into the SOMIVAC structure as of 1979/80
were (1) the Sedhiou Rural Development Project financed by IDA/CCCE;
(2) the Integrated Rural Development Project of the Lower Casamance
financed by USAID; and (3) the Chinese Agricultural Mission Project
financed by China.



- 88 -
ANNEX V
Appendix 2
Page 5
SAED
SAED was set up as a public enterprise in 1965 to develop agri-
cultural production, mainly through promotion of irrigation in the Senegal
River Valley, and to provide extension services, water control, land culti-
vation, credit and marketing services to farmers in the region.  SAED has
a social capital of CFAF 2,365 million, and is entirely owned by the State.
Its activities have been financed through the budget and by external donors.
At end 1979 SAED had a permanent staff of about 1,000 persons,
and supervised agricultural production on 7 irrigated perimeters covering
an area of about 9,550 ha. SAED has a Director General who is responsible
for coordinating the activities of 12 division chiefs and 7 perimeter chiefs.
As a public enterprise, it has two tutelar ministrius, Finance and Economic
Affairs and Rural Development. The Center for Public Enterprises of the
Ministry of Finance has a priori control over all SAED's financial transac-
tions, thereby considerably reducing the agency's financial autonomy.
The Ministry of Rural Development is responsible for supervision of SAED's
tehcnical activities and for secondment of civil servants.
Several attempts have been made to modify SAEDts organization
and management structure to make it more efficient especially in financial
management, and to reduce the concentration of decision-making from the
Director General by creating four semi-autonomous departments dealing with
Finance and Administration, Production, Training, and Studies.



-  89  -
ANNEX V
Appendix 2
Page 6
BNDS
The Banque Nationale de De'veloppement du Sen4gal (BNDS) is a
limited liability company formed in May 1964 through the merger of the
Senegal Development Bank and the People's Credit of Senegal (Credit Populaire
Senegalais).  It has a social capital of CFAF 2,400 million with the State
owning 72.91% of the shares, CCCE of France 15.63%, BCEAO 6.25%, and other
financial institutions owning the remainder.  Its Board of 10 to 12 members
appoints the General Manager who is assisted by two deputies. Under them,
10 specialized departments deal with various aspects of bank administration.
Most of BNDS' 280 employees are in the bank's headquarters in Dakar, with a
few working in branch offices in the country's six regional capitals.
As of September 1979, BNDS had total assets of CFAF 120.9 billion,
and its portfolio amounted to CFAF 89.4 billion, 70% of which for short-term
loans. Operations done on behalf of Government had then reached CFAF 19.1
billion.
Roughly two-thirds of BNDS' annual lending in the past has gone
to the agricultural sector:   (a) short-term credits to ONCAD for the
marketing of groundnuts and cereals; (b) short- and medium-term credits to
cooperatives, through ONCAD, for the purchase of fertilizer and agricultural
implements under the Government's agricultural program; (c) credits to
individual farmers; and (d) short-term credits to SODEFITEX for the purchase
and marketing of cotton. In addition to credits for agriculture, BNDS has
financed operations in the industrial, commercial, real estate, and social
sectors.
BNDS finances its activities using mostly the rediscounting
facilities of the BCEAO, public and private deposits, advances from the
Treasury, its own funds, and long-term borrowings. The latter has however
been low, accounting for only 10% of total resources as of 1979.
BNDS' financial health is extremely dependent on performance of
the agricultural sector, and on the ability of Government to honor its commit-
ment towards agricultural extension service agencies.  The present depressed
agricultural situation and institutional reshuffling are a real threat to
the bank's liquidity. BNDS should therefore be a part of any Government plan
to reorganize the agricultural sector.



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
IMF Relations with Senegal 1/
Date of membership:                             August 31, 1962
Quota:                                          SDR 42 million; (consented quota
under Seventh General Review is
SDR 63 million).
Exchange system:                                Senegal's currency, the CFA franc,
is pegged to the French franc,
which is the intervention currency
at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02.
Fund holdings of Senegal's currency:            239.6 per cent of quota, of which
50.0 per cent was under CFF
purchases, and 23.4 per cent under
the oil facility and 0.6 per cent
relating to gold distribution.
SDR position:                                   Holdings amounted to SDR 5.18 million,
or 25.6 per cent of the net cumula-
tive allocations.
Gold distribution (four sales):                 Acquired 29,024.482 troy ounces of
fine gold.
Direct distribution of profits from
gold sales (four distributions):              US$5.39 million
Subsidy Account payments:                       SDR 2.15 million
Trust Fund assistance:                          Received loans of SDR 33.10 million
in the first and second periods.
Last Article IV consultation:                   Held in Dakar, February 18-March 5,
1980 and staff report (SM/80/104)
was discussed by the Executive
Board on June 9, 1980.
1/ As of October 31, 1980.



Xe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ---------
gH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         



