IOFFIIAL
LOAN NUMBER 1931 SE
Loan Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1931 SE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       4         , 1981, between REPUBLIC OF
SENEGAL (hereinafter called the B rrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of Part B of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association) to
provide additional financial assistance towards the financing of
Part B of the Project in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to twenty-two million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR22,900,000); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully sat forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement
intended to be entered into between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion for the purpose of the Project; and such term includes the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, as made applicable to


﻿-2-
such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Development
Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Development Credit
Agreement;
(b) "Credit" means the credit provided for in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement;
(c) "Credit Account" means the account defined in
paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions referred
to in Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(d) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(e) "Structural. 4djustment Program" means the program
covering tAe period from July 1, 1980 to June 30, 1985, for the
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy described in
th D6claration de politique dconomique of the Senegalese Govern-
ment annexed to the letter No. 0439/PM/SP addressed to the Bank
and the Association by the Borrower's Prime Minister, dated
October 31, 1980;
(f) "Nomenclature of Brussels" means the Nomenclature for
the Classification of Goods in Customs Tariffs published by the
Customs Co-operation Council, Brussels, Belgium, Fifth Edition
(1976);
(g) "Banque Centrale" means the national branch of Senegal
of Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest;
(h) "Special Account" means the account to be opened
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and Section 2.02
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement; and
(i) "Project Account" means the account established pursuant
to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).


﻿Section 2.02   (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to *this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of the imported goods and services
included in such Schedule and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B (a) of
the Project, open a Special Account with Banque Centrale on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.     Payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonable
cost of the imported goods eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
(c) The Bank shall, promptly after the Effective Date,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the currency
of the Borrower not exceeding $10,000,000 equivalent, unless
said initial amount is deposited by the Association out of the
proceeds of the Credit.   Thereafter, at the request of the Bor-
rower, the Bank shall further withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amounts as shall be required
to reimburse the Borrower for payments made out of the Special
Account in respect of the reasonable cost of the imported goods
eligible for financing under this Agreement, but only to the
extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $10,000,000.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of
each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request,
showing that the payment was made on account of the reasonable
cost of the imported goods eligible for financing under this
Agreeme it.
(e) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure not
eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Loan Account; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence required pursuant to


﻿-4-
paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank and prior to any further deposit in the
Special Account by the Bank, deposit in the Special Account an
amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, no .further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
by the Bank when the Bank shall have determined that such deposit
will not be needed to finance the reasonable cost of the imported
goods eligible for financing under this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) With respect to Part B (a) of the Project,
Banque Centrale is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) The Borrower shall entrust Banque Centrale with respon-
sibility for the coordination and collection of relevant documen-
tation and the preparation of withdrawal applications for the


﻿-5-
Loan under Part B (a) of the Project. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, each of such applications shall include evidence
satisfactory to the Bank of the importation into Senegal of the
goods for which financing is requested under such application and
of the date of such importation.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the n.rpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower shall take all such action, including the expeditious
granting of import licenses, as shall be necessary or convenient
to facilitate the timely importation of the goods to be financed
out of the Loan.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall open an account (the Project
Account) with Banque Centrale and shall, upon each withdrawal from
the Loan Account under Category (1) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, deposit or cause to
be deposited in such Project Account in accordance with appro-
priate financial procedures the equivalent in CFAF of the currency
or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account (such equivalent to
be determined as of the respective dates of such withdrawals). The
amounts so deposited in the Project Account shall be used to
finance expenditures for economic development of the parapublic
enterprises, primarily in the agricultural sector, that shall have
entered into contrats-plans with the Borrower on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank or that shall have taken steps
(such as ordres de mission) satisfactory to the Bank for the
establishment of suCh contrats-plans with the Borrower.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the studies included in Part B (b) of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-6-
(b) With respect to the studies included in Part B (b) of
the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i) cooperate fully with such consultants in the
performance of their services for the Project and
make available to them all information relevant to
said studies;
(ii) cause such consultants promptly to furnish to
the Bank copies of the documents prepared by
them for the Project, including reports and drafts
thereof, in such number as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; and
(iii) from time to time, exchange views with the Bank
with respect to the evaluation and implementa-
tion of the recommendations and other conclusions
contained in the documents referred to in sub-
paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section.
Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to
be insured, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and procured in accordance with Part A of Schedule 4
to this Agreement against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the point of entry into
Senesal, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the purchaser or importer to replace
or repair such goods.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine any relevant records and documents in
connection with the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
gind services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, at least on a
quarterly basis, all such information as the Bank shall request
Concerning the utilization of the amounts deposited in the Project
&Qunt pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 3.06. (a) Until the end of 1985, the Borrower and the
Bank shall, from time to time, at the request of either party, and
at least on an annual basis, exchange views on progress made and
obstacles met in carrying out the Structural Adjustment Program.
(b) The first such exchange of views shall take place not
later than March 31, 1981.
(c) The Borrower shall, prior to and for the purposes of
each such exchange of views, furnish to the Bank a report con-
taining such information related to the carrying out of the
Structural Adjustment Program as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(d) By December 31, 1985, or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Project, the performance by the Borrower and
the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at
no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall


﻿-8-
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause Banque
Centrale to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project Account.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Banque Centrale: (i) to have
the Project Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) to furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) a certified
statement of the Project Account for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the Project Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specifled as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within


﻿-9-
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely
that the Special Account shall have been opened as provided in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date -4              ? Z /is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 and 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate or a date five
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re de l'Economie
et des Finances
Rue Charles LaIng
B. P. 4017
Dakar, Sfnggal
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                          512
Dakar, Sgnegal                     TRESOR SG
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) All goods                29,000,000            100% of for-
imported into                                 eign expendi-
Senegal except                                tures
for the goods
set forth in
the Annex to
this Schedule
(2) Consul-                   1,000,000            100%
tants'
services
under
Section 3.03
of this
Agreement
TOTAL              30,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods or services
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or
services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".


﻿- 12 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect
of Category (2) in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equiva-
lent of $800,000 on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after January 1, 1980;
(b) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or any
other agency shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(c) expenditures for goods procured under invoices for
less than $1,000 equivalent; and
(d) any expenditures under Category (1) after the aggregate
of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and of
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall
have reached the amount of $40,000,000 equivalent, unless the
Bank shall be satisfied, after the exchange of views which shall
take place pursuant to Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement, with
respect to the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Structural Adjustment Program, and in particular: (i)
the application of the measures relating to import duties and
export subsidies; and (ii) the overall size and financing of the
medium-term investment program and the composition of the program
for public investment.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any
Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage


﻿- 13 -
of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan, as the
case may be, which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procedure of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 14 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
The following goods imported into Senegal may not be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan:
Nomenclature of Brussels
ChapteriNo.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
1             01.02B                Live animals
01.03
01.04A
01.05
01.06A
2              All                  Meat and edible meat
offals
3              All                  Fish, crustaceans and
molluscs
4              All                  Dairy products; birds'
eggs; natural honey;
edible products of
animal origin, not
elsewhere specified
or included
7              All                  Edible vegetables and
certain roots and
tubers
8              All                  Edible fruits and
nuts; peal of melons
or citrus fruits
9              All                  Coffee, tea, matS
and spices
10              All                  Cereals
11              All                  Products of the mill-
ing industry; malt
and starches; gluten;
inulin


﻿- 15 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
12             12.01A-B-C-D-H-I-J    Oil seeds and oleagi-
12.02                 nous fruit; miscella-
12.04                 neous grains, seeds
12.06                 and fruit; industrial
12.08                 and medical plants;
straw and fodder
13             13.03                 Raw vegetable mate-
rials of a kind
suitable for use in
dyeing or in tanning;
lacs; gums, resins
and other vegetable
saps and extracts
15             15.01                 Animal and vegetable
15.07                 fats and oils and*.
15.13                 their cleavage pro-
duts; prepared
edible fats; animal
and vegetable waxes
16              All                  Preparations of meat,
fish, crustaceans or
molluscs
17              All                  Sugars and sugar
confectionery
18              All                  Cocoa and cocoa
preparations
19              All                  Preparations of
cereals, flour or
starch; pastrycooks'
products
20              All                  Preparations of
vegetables, fruit
or other parts of
plants


﻿16 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
21              All                  Miscellaneous edible
preparations
22              All                  Beverages, spirits
and vinegar
24              All                  Tobacco
27             27.09                 Mineral fuels, mineral
27.10                 oils and products of
their distillation;
bituminous substances;
mineral waxes
31             31.01                 Fertilizers
31.03
31.05
33             33.06                 Essential oils and
resinoids; perfumery,
cosmetic or toilet
preparations
36              All                  Explosives, pyrotech-
nic products; matches;
pyrophoric alloys;
certain combustible
preparations
37              All                  Photographic and
cinematographic goods
39             39.07                 Artificial resins and
plastic materials,
cellulose esters and
ethers; articles
thereof
40             40.13                 Rubber, synthetic
rubber, factice, and
articles thereof


﻿- 17 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
42              All                  Articles of leather;
saddlery and harness;
travel goods, hand-
bags and similar con-
tainers; articles of
animal gut (other than
silk-worm gut)
43              All                  Furskins and artifi-
cial fur; manufactures
thereof
46              All                  Manufactures of straw,
esparto and other
plaiting materials;
basketware and wicker-
work
48             48.10                 Paper and paperboard,
48.14                 articles of paper
48.19                 pulp, of paper or
48.21 B-C             of paperboard
49              All                  Printed books, news-
papers, pictures and
other products of the
printing industry;
manuscripts, type-
scripts and plans
58             58.01                 Carpets, mats, matting
58.02                 and tapestries; pile
58.03                 and chenille fabrics;
narrow fabrics; trim-
mings; tulle and
other net fabrics;
lace; embroidery
59             59.02 A               Wadding and felt;
twine, cordage, ropes
and cables; special
fabrics; impregnated


﻿- 18 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
and coated fabrics;
textile articles of
a kind suitable for
industrial use
60             60.02                 Knitted and crocheted
60.03                 goods
60.04
60.05
61              All                  Articles of apparel
and clothing accesso-
ries of textile
fabric, other than
knitted or crocheted
goods
62              All                  Other made up tex-
tile articles
64              All                  Footwear, gaiters and
the like; parts of
such articles
65              All                  Headgear and parts
thereof
66              All                  Umbrellas, sunshades,
walking-sticks,
whips, riding-crops
and parts thereof
67              All                  Prepared feathers and
down and articles made
of feathers or of
down; artificial
flowers; articles of
human hair
70             70.13                 Glass and glassware
70.19


﻿- 19 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
71              All                  Pearls, precious and
semi-precious stones,
precious metals,
rolled precious
metals, and articles
thereof; imitation
jewelry
72              All                  Coin
73             73.36                 Iron and steel and
73.38                 articles thereof
74             74.17                 Copper and articles
74.18                 thereof
76             76.15                 Aluminum and articles
thereof
82             82.08                 Tools, implements,
cutlery, spoons and
forks, of base metals;
parts thereof
83             83.06                 Miscellaneous articles
83.11                 of base metals
83.14
84             84.12                 Boilers, machinery
84.15 A-B             and mechanical
84.17 A               appliances; parts
84.25 A               thereof
84.40 A-E
85             85.06                 Electrical machinery
85.07                 and equipment; parts
85.10                 thereof
85.12
85.14
85.15
85.21 A


﻿- 20 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
87             87.02 A               Vehicles, other than
87.08                 railway or tramway
87.09                 rolling-stock, and
87.13                 parts thereof
87.14 A
88              All                  Aircraft -and parts
thereof; parachutes;
catapults and similar
aircraft launching
gear; ground flying
trainers
89             89.01 A-B             Ships, boats and
floating structures
90             90.07                 Optical, photo-
90.08                 graphic, cinemato-
90.09                 graphic, measuring,
checking, precision,
medical and surgical
instruments and
apparatus; parts
thereof
91              All                  Clocks and watches
and parts thereof
92              All                 Musical instruments;
sound recorders or
reproducers; tele-
vision image and
sound recorders or
reproducers; parts
and accessories of
such articles
93              All                  Arms and ammunition;
parts thereof
94             94.01                 Furniture and parts
94.03                 thereof; bedding,
94.04                 mattresses, mattress


﻿- 21 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
supports, cushions
and similar stuffed
furnishings
95              All                  Articles and manu-
factures of carving
or moulding material
97              All                  Toys, games and sports
requisites; parts
thereof
98              All                  Miscellaneous manu-
factured articles
99              All                  Works of art, col-
lectors' pieces, and
antiques


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:
The execution of the Structural Adjustment Program the main
objectives of which are to achieve economic and financial stabili-
zation within the first two years and sustainable economic growth
during the last three years. The main features of the Structural
Adjustment Program are: (a) the increase of public savings through
sustained austere fiscal policies; (b) the limited and selective
growth of investments; (c) the improvement of monetary policies
including credit restrictions; (d) the improvement of the Bor-
rower's balance of payments as a consequence of the above and
through tariff adjustments aimed at limiting imports and export
subsidies aimed at encouraging exports; (e) the improvement of
foreign debt management so as to reduce the ratio of foreign debt
to export earnings; (f) better resource allocation through im-
proved pricing policies, limited wage growth, reduction of sub-
sidies (other than for exports) and decontrol of most domestic
prices; (g) the improvement of parapublic sector management
through better financial control of parapublic enterprises and
the establishment of contrats-plans and ordres de mission between
Government and each enterprise setting out objectives and
responsibilities of both parties; and (h) the expansion of rural
production and agricultural exports through reforms in the agri-
cultural policies and institutions.
Part B:
(a) A program for the importation into Senegal of goods
eligible under the terms of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
(b) The execution of studies relating to:
(i) the redistribution of activities of the Borrower's
Office national de Coopgration et d'Assistance
pour le Developpement and the financial and
operational structure of the Borrower's Soci6t6
nationale d'Approvisionnement du Monde rural; and
(ii) an assessment of the measures enacted in August
1980 with respect to import duties and export
incentives, followed by a study of the future
system for protecting domestic production and
encouraging exports, including the Investment
Code.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1986
through   February 15, 2001                  1,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 24 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                      1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                      2.75%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                      5.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                      7.40%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                      8.30%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                      9.25%


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement notice,
in such form and detail and containing such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods; and
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection
with the importation or the sales and similar taxes levied in
connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the
goods shall not be taken into account in the evaluation of the
bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods imported for the public sector under a
single contract estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$5,000,000 and for all goods imported for the private sector may
be awarded through normal trade channels on the basis of normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser or importer of such goods
in effect at the time of such purchase or import.


﻿- 26 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts procured in accordance with
Part A hereof:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, together with the recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the


﻿- 27 -
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change- order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    p     day of lA, 198    .
FOR SECRETARY


