OFFICIAL         CREDIT NUMBER 1084 SE
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    TQ, 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1084 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated J0r LOM         Zb, 1981, between REPUBLIC
OF SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called    the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of Part B of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank)
to provide additional assistance towards the financing of Part B
of the Project and by an agreement datedS*XUf     1981, between
the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement)
the Bank agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate prin-
cipal amount equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "Loan Agreement" means the agreement dated
1981 between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b) "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan
Agreement;
(c) "Loan Account" means the account defined in paragraph 10
of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions referred to in Section
1.01 of the Loan Agreement;
(d) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(e) "Structural Adjustment Program" means the program
covering the period from July 1, 1980 to June 30, 1985, for the
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy described in the
Dclaration de politique &conomique of the Senegalese Govern-
ment annexed to the letter No. 0439/PM/SP addressed to the
Association and the Bank by the Borrower's Prime Minister, dated
October 31, 1980;
(f) "Nomenclature of Brussels" means the Nomenclature for
the Classification of Goods in Customs Tariffs published by the
Customs Co-operation Council, Brussels, Belgium, Fifth Edition
(1976);
(g) "Banque Centrale" means the national branch of Senegal
of Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest;
(h) "Special Account" means the account to be opened
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and Section 2.02
(b) of the Loan Agreement; and
(i) "Project Account" means the account established pursuant
to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-two million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 22,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the imported goods
included in such Schedule and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B (a) of
the Project open a Special Account with Banque Centrale on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.   Payments out of
the Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reason-
able cost of the imported goods eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the
currency of the Borrower not exceeding $10,000,000 equivalent,
unless said initial amount is deposited by the Bank out of the
proceeds of the Loan. Thereafter, at the request of the Borrower,
the Association shall further withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amounts as shall be required
to reimburse the Borrower for payments made out of the Special
Account in respect of the reasonable cost of the imported goods
eligible for financing under this Agreement, but only to the
extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $10,000,000.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect
of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reason-
ably request, showing that the payment was made on account of the
reasonable cost of the imported goods eligible for financing under
this Agreement.
(e) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure


﻿not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Credit Account;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence required pursuant to
paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association and prior to any further deposit in
the Special Account by the Association, deposit in the Special
Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
by the Association when the Association shall have determined that
such deposit will not be needed to finance the reasonable cost of
the imported goods eligible for financing under this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1991, and ending
August 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) With respect to Part B (a) of the Project,
Banque Centrale is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be


﻿-5-
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) The Borrower shall entrust Banque Centrale with respon-
sibility for the coordination and collection of relevant docu-
mentation and the preparation of withdrawal applications for the
Credit under Part B (a) of the Project. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, each of such applications shall include
evidence satisfactory to the Association of the importation into
Senegal of the goods for which financing is requested under such
application and of the date of such importation.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower shall take all such action, including the expeditious
granting of import licenses, as shall be necessary or convenient
to facilitate the timely importation of the goods to be financed
out of the Credit.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall open an account (the Project
Account) with Banque Centrale and shall, upon each withdrawal from
the Credit Account, deposit or cause to be deposited in such
Project Account in accordance with appropriate financial pro-
cedures the equivalent in CFAF of the currency or currencies
withdrawn from the Credit Account (such equivalent to be deter-
mined as of the respective dates of such withdrawals). The amounts
so deposited in the Project Account shall be used to finance
expenditures for economic development of the parapublic enter-
prises, primarily in the agricultural sector, that shall have
entered into contrats-plans with the Borrower on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association or that shall have
taken steps (such as ordres de mission) satisfactory to the
Association for the establishment of such contrats-plans with the
Borrower.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the studies included in Part B (b) of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
(b) With respect to the studies included in Part B (b) of
the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i) cooperate fully with such consultants in the per-
formance of their services for the Project and
make available to them all information relevant to
said studies;
(ii) cause such consultants promptly to furnish to the
Association copies of the documents prepared by
them for the Project, including reports and drafts
thereof, in such number as the Association shall
reasonably request; and
(iii) from time to time, exchange views with the Associa-
tion with respect to the evaluation and implementa-
tion of the recommendations and other conclusions
contained in the documents referred in sub-
paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section.
Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to
be insured, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and procured in accordance with Part A of Schedule 3
to this Agreement against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the point of entry into
Senegal, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the purchaser or importer to replace
or repair such goods.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause
to maintain records adequate to identify the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives
to examine any relevant records and documents in connection with
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (iii)
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, at least
on a quarterly basis, all such information as the Association
shall request concerning the utilization of the amounts deposited
in the Project Account pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) Until the end of 1985, the Borrower and the
Association shall, from time to time, at the request of either
party, and at least on an annual basis, exchange views on progress
made and obstacles met in carrying out the Structural Adjustment
Program.
(b) The first such exchange of views shall take place not
later than March 31, 1981.
(c) The Borrower shall, prior to and for the purposes of
each such exchange of views, furnish to the Association a report
containing such information related to the carrying out of the
Structural Adjustment Program as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(d) By December 31, 1985, or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association,
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, the perform-
ance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause Banque
Centrale to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project Account.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Banque Centrale: (i) to have
the Project Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) to furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) a certified


﻿-8-
statement of the Project Account for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) to furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the Project Account and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, ni ely that the Special Account shall have been opened
as provided in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date  4\      2191 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 and 4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1'Economie et
des Finances
Rue Charles Lafne
Dakar
Senegal


﻿-9-
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       512
Dakar, Senegal                   TRESOR SG
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
By   %    Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit
1.    All goods imported into Senegal may be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, except for the following which may not
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit:
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
1             01.02B                Live animals
01.03
01.04A
01.05
01.06A
2              All                  Meat and edible meat
offals
3              All                  Fish, crustaceans and
molluscs
4              All                  Dairy products; birds'
eggs; natural honey;
edible products of
animal origin, not
elsewhere specified
or included
7              All                  Edible vegetables and
certain roots and
tubers
8              All                  Edible fruits and
nuts; peal of melons
or citrus fruits
9              All                  Coffee, tea, mate
and spices
10              All                  Cereals


﻿- 11 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
11              All                  Products of the mill-
ing industry; malt
and starches; gluten;
inulin
12             12.01A-B-C-D-H-I-J    Oil seeds and oleagi-
12.02                 nous fruit; miscella-
12.04                 neous grains, seeds
12.06                 and fruit; industrial
12.08                 and medical plants;
straw and fodder
13             13.03                 Raw vegetable mate-
rials of a kind
suitable for use in
dyeing or in tanning;
lacs; gums, resins
and other vegetable
saps and extracts
15             15.01                 Animal and vegetable
15.07                 fats and oils and
15.13                 their cleavage pro-
duts; prepared
edible fats; animal
and vegetable waxes
16              All                  Preparations of meat,
fish, crustaceans or
molluscs
17              All                  Sugars and sugar
confectionery
18              All                  Cocoa and cocoa
preparations
19              All                  Preparations of
cereals, flour or
starch; pastrycooks'
products


﻿- 12 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
20              All                  Preparations of
vegetables, fruit
or other parts of
plants
21              All                  Miscellaneous edible
preparations
22              All                  Beverages, spirits
and vinegar
24              All                  Tobacco
27             27.09                 Mineral fuels, mineral
27.10                 oils and products of
their distillation;
bituminous substances;
mineral waxes
31             31.01                 Fertilizers
31.03
31.05
33             33.06                 Essential oils and
resinoids; perfumery,
cosmetic or toilet
preparations
36              All                  Explosives, pyrotech-
nic products; matches;
pyrophoric alloys;
certain combustible
preparations
37              All                  Photographic and
cinematographic goods
39             39.07                 Artificial resins and
plastic materials,
cellulose esters and
ethers; articles
thereof


﻿- 13 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
40             40.13                 Rubber, synthetic
rubber, factice, and
articles thereof
42              All                  Articles of leather;
saddlery and harness;
travel goods, hand-
bags and similar con-
tainers; articles of
animal gut (other than
silk-worm gut)
43              All                  Furskins and artifi-
cial fur; manufactures
thereof
46              All                  Manufactures of straw,
esparto and other
plaiting materials;
basketware and wicker-
work
48             48.10                 Paper and paperboard,
48.14                 articles of paper
48.19                 pulp, of paper or
48.21 B-C             of paperboard
49              All                  Printed books, news-
papers, pictures and
other products of the
printing industry;
manuscripts, type-
scripts and plans
58             58.01                 Carpets, mats, matting
58.02                 and tapestries; pile
58.03                 and chenille fabrics;
narrow fabrics; trim-
mings; tulle and
other net fabrics;
lace; embroidery


﻿- 14 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
59             59.02 A               Wadding and felt;
twine, cordage, ropes
and cables; special
fabrics; impregnated
and coated fabrics;
textile articles of
a kind suitable for
industrial use
60             60.02                 Knitted and crocheted
60.03                 goods
60.04
60.05
61              All                  Articles of apparel
and clothing accesso-
ries of textile
fabric, other than
knitted or crocheted
goods
62              All                  Other made up tex-
tile articles
64              All                  Footwear, gaiters and
the like; parts of
such articles
65              All                  Headgear and parts
thereof
66              All                  Umbrellas, sunshades,
walking-sticks,
whips, riding-crops
and parts thereof
67              All                  Prepared feathers and
down and articles made
of feathers or of
down; artificial
flowers; articles of
human hair


﻿- 15 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.          Description
70             70.13                Glass and glassware
70.19
71              All                 Pearls, precious and
semi-precious stones,
precious metals,
rolled precious
metals, and articles
thereof; imitation
jewelry
72              All                 Coin
73             73.36                Iron and steel and
73.38                articles thereof
74             74.17                Copper and articles
74.18                 thereof
76             76.15                Aluminum and articles
thereof
82             82.08                Tools, implements,
cutlery, spoons and
forks, of base metals;
parts thereof
83             83.06                Miscellaneous articles
83.11                 of base metals
83.14
84             84.12                Boilers, machinery
84.15 A-B             and mechanical
84.17 A               appliances; parts
84.25 A               thereof
84.40 A-E
85             85.06                Electrical machinery
85.07                 and equipment; parts
85.10                 thereof
85.12
85.14
85.15
85.21 A


﻿- 16 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
87             87.02 A               Vehicles, other than
87.08                 railway or tramway
87.09                 rolling-stock, and
87.13                 parts thereof
87.14 A
88              All                  Aircraft and parts
thereof; parachutes;
catapults and similar
aircraft launching
gear; ground flying
trainers
89             89.01 A-B             Ships, boats and
floating structures
90             90.07                 Optical, photo-
90.08                 graphic, cinemato-
90.09                 graphic, measuring,
checking, precision,
medical and surgical
instruments and
apparatus; parts
thereof
91              All                  Clocks and watches
and parts thereof
92              All                  Musical instruments;
sound recorders or
reproducers; tele-
vision image and
sound recorders or
reproducers; parts
and accessories of
such articles
93              All                  Arms and ammunition;
parts thereof
94             94.01                 Furniture and parts
94.03                 thereof; bedding,
94.04                 mattresses, mattress


﻿- 17 -
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.    Sub-chapter No.           Description
supports, cushions
and similar stuffed
furnishings
95              All                  Articles and manu-
factures of carving
or moulding material
97              All                  Toys, games and sports
requisites; parts
thereof
98              All                  Miscellaneous manu-
factured articles
99              All                  Works of art, col-
lectors' pieces, and
antiques


﻿- 18 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods supplied from the territory of
the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower, on goods or on the importation, procurement or
supply thereof;
(d) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or any
other agency shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(e) expenditures for goods procured under invoices for
less than $1,000 equivalent; and
(f) any expenditures after the aggregate of the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and of the proceeds
of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the
amount of $40,000,000 equivalent, unless the Association shall
be satisfied, after the exchange of views which shall take place
pursuant to Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement, with respect to
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Structural Adjustment Program, and in particular: (i) t,he applica-
tion of the measures relating to import duties and export sub-
sidies; and (ii) the overall size and financing of the medium-
term investment program and the composition of the program for
public investment.
3.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:
The execution of the Structural Adjustment Program the main
objectives of which are to achieve economic and financial stabili-
zation within the first two years and sustainable economic
growth during the last three years. The main features of the
Structural Adjustment Program are: (a) the increase of public
savings through sustained austere fiscal policies; (b) the
limited and selective growth of investments; (c) the improvement
of monetary policies including credit restrictions; (d) the
improvement of the Borrower's balance of payments as a consequence
of the above and through tariff adjustments aimed at limiting
imports and export subsidies aimed at encouraging exports; (e) the
improvement of foreign debt management so as to reduce the ratio
of foreign debt to export earnings; (f) better resource alloca-
tion through improved pricing policies, limited wage growth,
reduction of subsidies (other than for exports) and decontrol of
most domestic prices; (g) the improvement of parapublic sector
performance through better financial control of parapublic enter-
prises and the establishment of contrats-plans and ordres de
mission between Government and each enterprise setting out objec-
tives and responsibilities of both parties; and (h) the expansion
of rural production and agricultural exports through reforms in
the agricultural policies and institutions.
Part B:
(a) A program for the importation into Senegal of goods
eligible under the terms of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(b) The execution of studies relating to:
(i) the redistribution of activities of the Borower's
Office national de Cooperation et d'Assistance
pour le Developpement and the financial and
operational structure of the Borrower's Societe
nationale d'Approvisionnement du Monde rural; and


﻿- 20 -
(ii) an assessment of the measures enacted in August
1980 with respect to import duties and export
incentives, followed by a study of the future
system for protecting domestic production and
encouraging exports, including the Investment
Code.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods; and (ii) customs duties and other import taxes levied in
connection with the importation, or the sales and similar taxes
levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the
bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in the evalua-
tion of the bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods imported for the public sector under a
single contract estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$5,000,000 and for all goods imported for the private sector may
be awarded through normal trade channels on the basis of normal


﻿- 22 -
procurement procedures of the purchaser or importer of such goods
in effect at the time of such purchase or import.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts procured in accordance with
Part A hereof:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly


﻿- 23 -
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  o,i6       day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


