                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00003303



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-77340)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS

                                       FOR AN

                          INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT



                                     June 25, 2015




Transport and ICT Global Practice
Country Department AFCS2
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2014)

                 Currency Unit = Mauritian Rupee (MUR)
                          MUR 1.00 = US$0.03
                         US$1.00 = MUR 31.75

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 – December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD       Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
ARAP      Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan
BRT       Bus Rapid Transit
CEB       Central Electricity Board
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
FM        Financial Management
GoM       Government of Mauritius
HDM       Highway Development and Management Model
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFR       Interim Financial Report
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Reports
LAP       Land Acquisition Plan
LRT       Light Rail Transit
LTA       Land Transport Authority
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
METAP     Mauritius Economic Transition Technical Assistance Project
MIP       Mauritius Infrastructure Project
MoENDU    Ministry of Environment and National Development Unit
MoFED     Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
          (formerly Ministry of Finance and Economic Empowerment, MoFEE)
MoPILTS   Ministry of Public Infrastructure, Land Transport and Shipping
MoREPU    Ministry of Renewable Energy and Public Utilities
MTR       Mid-Term Review
MUR       Mauritian Rupee
NPV       Net Present Value
NSMP      National Sewerage Master Plan
NSP       National Sewerage Program
NTA       National Transport Authority
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAP       Project Affected Persons

                                   ii
PBC     Performance-Based Contracts
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PPC     Project Plan Committee
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PSIP    Public Sector Investment Program
RDA     Road Development Authority
RE      Renewable Energy
RMS     Road Management System
SCD     Strategic Country Diagnostic
SDR     Safeguards Diagnostic Review
SIM     Sector Investment and Maintenance Loan
TAS     Treasury Accounting System
TMRSU   Traffic Management and Road Safety Unit
USD     United States Dollar
WMA     Wastewater Management Authority
WRU     Water Resources Unit




                      Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                    Country Director: Mark Lundell
                     Sector Manager: Supee Teravaninthorn
                Project Team Leader: Richard Martin Humphreys
                   ICR Team Leader: Sevara Melibaeva




                                   iii
                                       REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
                                          Infrastructure Project



                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 54
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 55
  MAP




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Mauritius -
Country:                Mauritius                 Project Name:
                                                                            Infrastructure Project
Project ID:             P091828                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-77340
ICR Date:               06/25/2015                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIM                       Borrower:
                                                                            MAURITIUS
Original Total
                        USD 50.00M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 47.70M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 47.70M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Public Infrastructure, Land Transport and Shipping
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/09/2008     Effectiveness:             02/19/2010          02/19/2010
                                                                                     03/16/2014
Appraisal:             12/08/2008     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                     11/19/2014
Approval:              09/24/2009     Mid-term Review:           11/30/2012          02/16/2013
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2014          12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
       Bank                  Ratings            Borrower                            Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower            Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:                Unsatisfactory



                                                 v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Project at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Energy and mining                               4                     4
Public administration- Transportation                                 12                  12
 Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood
                                                                      14                  14
protection
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                              70                  70


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                25                  10
Rural services and infrastructure                                     75                  90

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Mark R. Lundell                      Ruth Kagia
Practice
                           Supee Teravaninthorn                 Alain Labeau
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Richard Martin Humphreys             Pierre Graftieaux
ICR Team Leader:           Sevara Melibaeva
ICR Primary Author:        Sevara Melibaeva


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve the national infrastructure, with an emphasis on the transport, energy and water
sectors.


                                               vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                              approval            Target       Completion or
                                             documents)           Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Disbursement ratio of annual capital budgets related to PSIP
Value
quantitative or 43%                       80%                                 85%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/24/2009                  12/31/2014                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        106% achieved.
achievement)
                Number (and value) of projects in the infrastructure sector implemented, being
Indicator 2 :
                implemented, or ready for implementation as defined in the PSIP
Value
                                                                              49 (US$1.6 bln
quantitative or 0                         N/A
                                                                              value)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/24/2009                  12/31/2014                          12/31/2014
Comments
                No target defined; however, the actual value for number of projects and value
(incl. %
                increased from baseline by 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Travel times (minutes) on Quartier Militaire Road
Value
quantitative or 10 minutes                5.5 minutes                         5 minutes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/24/2009                  12/31/2014                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        111% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of accidents per year on Quartier Militaire Road
Value
quantitative or 11                        N/A                                 1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/24/2009                  12/31/2014                          12/31/2014
Comments
                No target defined; however, the actual value decreased significantly from the
(incl. %
                baseline.
achievement)




                                              vii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                              approval                         Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of km upgraded as per defined standards on targeted roads
Value
(quantitative     0                          7.5                              12.1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/24/2009                 12/31/2014                       12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          161% exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of km maintained as per defined standards on targeted roads annually
Value
(quantitative     0                          17                               17
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/24/2009                 12/31/2014                       12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Number of Performance Based contracts being implemented for routine
Indicator 3 :
                  maintenance
Value
(quantitative     0                          4                                0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/24/2009                 12/31/2014                       12/31/2014
Comments
                  0% achieved - the corresponding activity was dropped and will be implemented
(incl. %
                  by the RDA. Target is expected to be achieved after the project.
achievement)

(c) Output Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Preparation of PSIP that meets the criteria defined in Annex 4
Value
(quantitative     Not prepared               Completed                        Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/24/2009                 12/31/2011                       12/31/2014
Comments
                  100% achieved but not with the project's assistance - implemented by the
(incl. %
                  Borrower's own sources.
achievement)
Indicator 2:      LTA is fully operational



                                                   viii
Value
                                                                                  Yes, but not fully
(quantitative     LTA is being set up        Yes
                                                                                  operational yet.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/24/2009                 12/31/2011                           12/31/2014
Comments
                  90% achieved. LTA has been established and is expected to become fully
(incl. %
                  operational after the project.
achievement)
                  Number of completed feasibility / detailed engineering studies in the transport
Indicator 3:
                  sector, which relate to transport projects identified as priorities under the PSIP
Value
(quantitative     0                          4                                    4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/24/2009                 12/31/2011                           12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4:      Master Plan for Water Resources completed and adopted
Value
                                             Completed and                        Completed and
(quantitative     Not prepared
                                             adopted                              adopted
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/24/2009                 12/31/2011                           12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          100% achieved.
achievement)
                  Number of completed feasibility / detailed engineering studies in the water
Indicator 5:
                  sector, which relate to water projects identified as priorities under the PSIP
Value
(quantitative     0                          2                                    1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/24/2009                 12/31/2011                           12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          50% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6:      Pollution Control Laboratory is fully operational
Value
(quantitative     Lab is being set up        Yes                                  No
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/24/2009                 12/31/2012                           12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          0% achieved - activity was dropped due to shift in priorities in the sector.
achievement)
                Detailed engineering design studies completed for the Baie de Tombeau Phase
Indicator 7:
                III project
Value                                     Completed and
                                                                            Completed and
(quantitative   Not prepared              being
                                                                            being implemented
or Qualitative)                           implemented
Date achieved 09/24/2009                  12/31/2011                        12/31/2014
Comments        100% achieved.

                                                   ix
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8:      Renewable Energy Development Strategy and implementation plan prepared
Value                                    Completed and
(quantitative     Not prepared           being                           Dropped
or Qualitative)                          implemented
Date achieved     09/24/2009             12/31/2011                      12/31/2013
Comments
                  0% achieved - activity was terminated due to consultant's unsatisfactory
(incl. %
                  performance. Study is being undertaken under AFD TA support.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
 1      11/18/2009             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
 2      05/16/2010             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
 3      12/10/2010             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.76
 4      07/11/2011             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      4.08
 5      11/21/2011             Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               4.08
 6      03/21/2012             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      4.08
 7      07/01/2012             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    20.41
 8      12/09/2012             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    20.41
 9      03/18/2013             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    20.41
 10     10/13/2013             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    40.39
 11     03/17/2014             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    46.22
 12     11/26/2014             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    46.23
 13     12/30/2014             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    47.57

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Simple reallocation of proceeds
                                                     across three categories to reflect
                                                     the greater than expected
                                                     expenditure requirements under
                                                     categories (2) and (3) as a result
 03/16/2014               S       S          46.22
                                                     of change in the scope of
                                                     interventions requested by the
                                                     client to include additional
                                                     works to construct junctions,
                                                     one bridge, and improvement

                                                 x
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     works. The requirements under
                                                     Category (1) have been reduced
                                                     as some programmed activities
                                                     were not carried out and others
                                                     were funded by the government
                                                     own funds.
                                                     Simple reallocation of proceeds
                                                     from categories (1) and (3) to
                                                     category (2) reflecting greater
                                                     than expected expenditure
                                                     requirements on the B6 Belle
                                                     Rive and Quartier Militaire
                                                     Road under Category (2), and
 11/19/2014               S       S          46.23   the reduced requirements under
                                                     Categories (1) and (3),
                                                     Technical Assistance. The
                                                     reallocated amount includes the
                                                     increase resulting from the price
                                                     escalation allowed under the
                                                     works contract due to the
                                                     agreed time extensions.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                         xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Mauritius is one of the most densely populated countries in the world, 1 with a
population of about 1.2 million people, of whom about 1.14 million live on the island of
Mauritius. At appraisal, about 45 percent of Mauritius island’s population lived in the Port
Louis and Plaine Wilhems conurbation, comprising Beau Bassin, Rose Hill, Quatre Bornes,
Vacoas, Phoenix, and Curepipe. Being a small, open economy specializing in relatively low-
cost labor intensive industries, Mauritius enjoyed an impressive economic growth in the 1980’s
and 1990’s, stimulated by preferential access to markets for textiles and sugar exports.
However, over the period 2005-2009 competition from lower cost manufacturers in Asia and
Africa and the end of preferential trade access stimulated the Government of Mauritius (GoM)
to undertake reforms to sustain its growth.

2.       At the time of project preparation, Mauritius had been hit hard by the world economic
crisis, and the overall economic outlook was negative. In December 2008, the GoM revised
downwards its growth forecast from six to four percent and, and by March 2009 had further
lowered it to 2.5 percent. Accordingly, the GoM continued to be pro-active and innovative in
its response to the crisis and released a six-month budget for July-December 2009, which was
cast as an 18-month action plan …to ride out the global crisis to save jobs, protect people and
prepare for the recovery. Numerous measures to accomplish this objective were announced,
including the following five priorities: (i) job preservation through direct support to enterprises;
(ii) boosting project realization capacity in the public sector; (iii) launching a large Public
Sector Investment Program (PSIP); (iv) strengthening the eradication of poverty program; and
(iv) maintaining expansionary fiscal and monetary policies.

3.      Infrastructure bottlenecks were seen among the major factors impeding growth,
contributing to the high cost of exports and the erosion of competiveness of Mauritius. Though
a number of large infrastructure projects were planned and budgeted for, the implementation
of these public investments was delayed, reflective of weak institutional capacities in the public
sector, and the lack of a robust process to define, prepare, and implement an integrated Public
Sector Investment Program. The Mauritius Infrastructure Project (MIP) was expected to
address precisely this issue through a technical assistance component to help the GoM to lay
the ground for future investments in three key infrastructure sectors such as transport,
water/wastewater, and energy, together with priority investments in ‘shovel ready’ projects.

4.       Transport. In a rapidly motorizing environment with vehicle numbers growing at seven
percent annually, transport infrastructure was not being upgraded at the same pace and the
condition and quality was lagging behind public expectations, especially in the most densely
populated areas of Port-Louis – Curepipe corridor and on the national road network. As a
result, the GoM identified a series of priority transport infrastructure investments including
mainly: (i) a road maintenance program for the national road network, including pilot
performance-based contracts (PBCs), (ii) a ring road around Port Louis and Harbour Bridge to
take north-south traffic out of the city, and (iii) a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) from Port Louis to


1
    Actually, the 10th most densely populated country with a density of 1,634 residents per square mile.


                                                          1
Curepipe where there was a strong need to improve bus service quality significantly, reduce
bus travel times, and encourage modal shift to reduce the growing congestion on the key road
corridor. The MIP envisaged support to the GoM in implementing these and other priorities,
including piloting of PBC contracts, and preparing studies on BRT and stage bus reforms, and
formulating the long term PSIP. As part of the first priorities of the PSIP, the GoM requested
financing of the urgent road rehabilitation works on selected sections connecting key economic
areas of the island or major villages and posing the highest road safety hazards. This was part
of the GoM’s public investment program, a response to the deteriorating international economy.

5.      On the institutional side, the transport sector in Mauritius lacked integration in its
strategic planning and the management of road safety, as plans for the development of a mode
were generally being prepared independently, often resulting in duplication, conflict, and
negative externalities. A consensus was reached by major stakeholders in 2006 to set up an
integrated Land Transport Authority (LTA), which would combine the functions of the Road
Development Authority (RDA), the National Transport Authority (NTA), and the Traffic
Management and Road Safety Unit (TMRSU). The bill to create the LTA was submitted to
Parliament in 2009. The MIP included support in the form of technical assistance to develop
the structure and operationally establish the LTA.

6.       Water. At the time of appraisal, the water sector was facing a number of challenges,
including: (i) increasing demand from the various economic sectors; (ii) reduction in average
annual rainfall due to climate change; (iii) rise of sea level leading to groundwater quality
degradation in the coastal zone; (iv) degradation of groundwater quality due to low coverage
of sanitation facilities; and (v) water quality degradation due to effluent discharged by
industrial development. The development of the sector was also constrained by weak
institutional capacity, lack of financial resources to invest in the sector, inconsistency in the
legal framework of the sector, and a lack of cross-sectorial coordination. The GoM sought
support from the World Bank to design its water resources strategy and prepare future
investments in the water sector.

7.      Wastewater. At appraisal, the coverage of public sewerage networks in Mauritius was
at 25 percent (i.e. 63,000 households) and waste water was treated at some ten plants. The
remaining 75 percent of households were still using on-site waste water disposal systems,
which posed serious threats to the aquifers and created both health hazards and odors due to
leaching or overflowing cesspits and leaching fields. Various activities were underway as part
of the wastewater development program, including: (i) institutional strengthening of the
Wastewater Management Authority (WMA); (ii) environmental monitoring and control of
wastewater discharges to the WMA sewer system; (iii) implementation of industrial pollution
control program; and (iv) improvement of access of the poor to suitable sanitation.
Nevertheless, achieving the GoM objective of 50 percent coverage by 2011/2012 and 80
percent by 2030 was a challenge and required substantial investments. Hence, inclusion of the
sector within the MIP.

8.      Energy. Renewable energy sources accounted for 22 percent of total electricity
generation in 2006, placing Mauritius well above the level of many developing countries in its
commitment to a diversified energy mix. However, there was a growing concern about the need
to meet the electricity demand, which was expected to increase substantially with population
growth and higher household income. Additional generating capacity was therefore critical to
meet demand in the medium term. With bagasse and hydro resources almost fully exploited,
the island would have to resort to coal- and other fossil fuel-based power generation unless

                                               2
substantial commercially viable renewable energy resources were developed. Recognizing the
negative environmental implications of the fossil fuel-based power development, the GoM set
up a fund to increase the proportion of renewable energy (RE) in the energy mix, and to
promote energy efficiency. The preparation of a RE study was also to be supported under the
MIP.

Rationale for Bank Support

9.      The project under evaluation was originally envisioned to focus primarily on supporting
a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system, but late in the preparation process, the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Development (MoFED) 2 requested to change the project’s focus towards
supporting the country’s multi-sectoral PSIP program on a broader level. This shift was seen
by the Ministry to better reflect GoM’s changing priorities and as an opportunity to efficiently
and quickly prepare large investment projects in the transport, energy and water sectors, to be
potentially funded by the World Bank through a series of subsequent projects, and/or by other
development partners. Thus, the multi-sector nature of the MIP was intended to address key
infrastructure bottlenecks and contribute to GoM’s public investment program in a cost-
efficient and expeditious way. The Bank was also able to accommodate this shift and redesign
the project in an expedited manner within the time and resource constraints.

10.     The rationale for the World Bank support under the MIP was that the Bank could
increase rigor and quality of selection, preparation, and implementation of large infrastructure
projects through close supervision. It could also contribute to the establishment of the PSIP, in
the Ministries and line agencies. The Bank was also well placed to address the MoFED’s
concerns on governance in infrastructure investments through helping to improve the
methodological framework currently used to design and select investments under the PSIP. The
Bank was well positioned to assist the GoM in this multi-sector initiative, given its expertise
and experience in developing public investment management frameworks, and within the
transport sector, output and performance based approaches to rehabilitate and maintain non-
concessioned roads in Latin America and in Africa, implementing BRT and bus reform projects
in Latin American cities, and developing renewable energy strategies in other Middle Income
Countries (e.g., Turkey, Mexico, and Argentina). The activities in the water/wastewater sectors
were also complementary to an ongoing Bank-financed project - the Mauritius Economic
Transition Technical Assistance Project (METAP), supporting the GoM in the preparation of
the new Water Act and the setting up of a regulator.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

11.     The Project Development Objective (PDO) of the Mauritius Infrastructure Project as
stated in both the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Loan Agreement was to assist
the Borrower to improve the national infrastructure with an emphasis on the transport, energy
and water sectors.

12.     Through playing a key role in the definition and implementation of a high-quality PSIP,
the project was expected to contribute to the following: (i) improvement of the condition of the
road network through road upgrading, periodic maintenance and pilot performance-based
routine maintenance contracts; (ii) preparation of investments in the urban transport sector to



2
    Formerly known as Ministry of Finance and Economic Empowerment (MoFEE).

                                                   3
alleviate congestion between Curepipe and Port-Louis and in the road sector to keep upgrading
the existing network; (iii) support to the government in defining a ten-year PSIP; (iv) assistance
in establishing a framework for economically viable clean energy development, and thereby
increase the proportion of renewable energy in the energy mix; (iv) identification and
preparation of key investments in the water and wastewater sectors so as to increase water
production in a sustainable way and to augment the connection to public sewerage networks
from 25 percent of households as of now to 50 percent by 2012; and (v) technical assistance
and training to the line Ministries and agencies.

13.     The original outcome indicators were the following: (i) disbursement ratio of annual
capital budgets related to PSIP; (ii) number (and value) of projects in the infrastructure sector
implemented, being implemented, or ready for implementation as defined in the Public Sector
Investment Program; and (iii) travel times (minutes) and number of accidents per year on
Quartier Militaire Road.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

14.     There were no revisions made to the PDO and key indicators during implementation.
Nevertheless, it is important to note the discrepancy and inconsistency between the PDO stated
in both the PAD and the Loan Agreement and the PDO as reported and used in Implementation
Status and Results Reports (ISR) throughout the entire implementation period. The latter was
phrased as follows: to prepare and begin implementation of the Public Sector Investment
Program. As such, this ICR presents the analysis and assessment of outcomes based on the
PDO as stated in the PAD and Loan Agreement.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

15.     The main beneficiaries identified by the project included the population living in the
vicinity of the road sections improved by the project, the road users, both passenger and freight
transport companies and shippers, and exporters. In addition, the main beneficiaries of the
technical assistance and institutional strengthening activities are the government implementing
agencies in transport, water, and energy sectors.

16.     In addition, the improvements in the quality of the road network and in the delivery of
good quality urban transport services were expected to lead indirectly to economic growth and
better income distribution through the creation of business development opportunities,
removing infrastructure bottlenecks that constrain the productivity of Mauritius, and increasing
competitiveness of producers and services providers, particularly in the tourism sector.

1.5 Original Components

17.      The project included two components, namely: (1) road investments: upgrading,
periodic maintenance and performance-based routine maintenance contracts on key road
sections of the Mauritian network; and (2) technical assistance and institutional development
in the transport, water and wastewater, and energy subsectors to accelerate and improve the 10-
year Public Sector Investment Program readiness for implementation.

18.    Component 1: Road Investments (US$36.1 million, including US$1.1 million
financed by the Borrower). Priority was given to roads whose capacity had been or was

                                                4
expected to be soon exceeded, which constituted main links to key economic areas of the island
or which connected or passed through major villages and which constituted safety hazards.

      (i)     Upgrading of B6 Belle Rive - Quartier Militaire Road (US$22.7, including US$1.1
              million financed by the Borrower): Government funding was to be used to acquire
              the land needed for the widening of the road right-of-way), a 5.5-to-6.5 meter road,
              the main link between the East and the West of Mauritius, to be fully or partially
              rehabilitated and widened to up to 7.5 meters under the project, to alleviate congestion
              and above all to improve road safety on this axis, largely used by trucks and buses.
              Works were to include slight modifications to the alignment to smoothen the sharpest
              curves, the construction of bypasses to Valetta and Quartier Militaire villages and the
              widening of culverts in areas that got partially flooded during heavy rains.

      (ii)    Periodic Maintenance (US$10.4 million) for three highway sections, which had not
              been treated since their construction in the late 1970s and the pavement of which
              presented clear signs of fatigue: (i) Terre Rouge – Quay D on M2 (5 km of dual
              carriageway), (ii) Nouvelle France – La Vigie on M1 (8 km of single carriageway)
              and (iii) parts of Pamplemousses-Grand Baie on A13 (4 km of single carriageway).

      (iii) Performance-based routine maintenance contracts (US$3 million) for the three
            highway sections mentioned above. Another performance based maintenance
            contract was to be executed to test the concept on lower-volume roads, possibly B20
            (Old Flacq Road). The objective of this sub-component was to determine whether
            performance-based contracts, once adapted to the local context, are the right means
            to overcome a backlog of deferred maintenance on key sections of Mauritius primary
            network.

19.     Component 2: Technical Assistance (TA) and Institutional Development in the
Transport – Water/Wastewater - Energy subsectors (US$14.875 million). The TA
components aimed at laying the groundwork for possible future Sector Investment Loans
(SILs) in the three sectors in approximately two years after this project had become effective,
within the framework of a Public Sector Investment Plan to be developed through the proposed
loan.

20.          General:
      (i)     Support to the preparation of the Public Sector Investment Program (US$500,000):
              This was aimed to provide TA to assist in the elaboration and finalization of the PSIP
              that would present a set of investment projects on a sector basis for implementation
              over the next ten years. The PSIP was to provide a useful guide to policymakers,
              development partners, line ministries/public enterprises and the private partners for
              informed decisions on those investment projects that could be funded partly or wholly
              through public funds, foreign loans/grants and private capital.

21.        Transport Sector (US$5.175 million):
      (i) Assistance for the setting up of the Land Transport Authority (US$600,000);
      (ii) Assistance to the agencies in charge of Land Transport (US$550,000);
      (iii) Assistance Strictly related to the creation of the Land Transport Authority
            (US$150,000);
      (iv) Supervision and Monitoring of the Quartier Militaire Road upgrading works contract
            (US$425,000);

                                                    5
      (v)  Other transport studies, both in the urban transport and road transport sub-sectors
           (US$2,300,000), including the BRT and Bus Reform Implementation Study for the
           Port-Louis / Curepipe corridor, a study on taxi industry reform and removal of illegal
           taxi / van operators, the definition of a parking policy (including partial removal of
           on-street Parking in Port Louis), engineering studies and tender documents for works
           to enhance pedestrianized environment in Port Louis, analysis of tolling options for
           road projects such as the Port-Louis by-pass, TA for the setting up and purchase of a
           Road Management System (RMS) and consulting services for the design and
           evaluation of Performance-Based Contracts, etc.; and
      (vi) Feasibility, Detailed Design, Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs), Tender
           Documents and whenever needed, Resettlement Action Plans for an amount of
           approximately US$1,150,000 for (i) roads such as, but not necessarily limited to, Old
           Flacq Road (from its junction with A2 at Khoyratty through d’Epinay and Camp
           Créole to its junction with A2 at Grande Rosalie), a 6-km road segment / Terre Rouge
           – Triolet – Grand Baie Road (14 km from its junction with M2 at Terre Rouge through
           Saint Joseph, Arsenal, Solitude, Triolet, Chemin Vingt Pieds to its junction with B13
           at Grand Baie) / Pailles Branch Road (2.4 km from its junction with M1 at Grewals
           Underpass through Pailles to its junction with A1 at Grand River North West / B6 to
           assess the need (and optimal timing) for a dual carriageway; (ii) round-about
           replacement projects, road extension program, pavement projects; and (iii) Rodrigues
           airport (construction of a new runway of 2,100m).

22.   Water Sector (US$5.2 million): The proposed TA activities aimed at helping the
government to prepare the investments needed to meet the objectives mentioned above:

      (i)   Development of a Master Plan for Water Resources, Rationalization of Water Rights
            and Capacity Building (US$2,000,000);
      (ii) Feasibility and/or detailed design studies and/or EIAs for future investments projects
            (US$2,500,000) that could comprise at the time: (i) increase in storage capacity of the
            La Nicoliere reservoir and/or construction of Calebasses dam to increase water supply
            and irrigation in the North region, and (ii) the South Mauritius Water Supply project
            to increase water supply in the south west region;
      (iii) Re-organization of Pollution Control Laboratory (US$500,000) including training of
            water resources staff and re-organization of Pollution Control Laboratory, including
            supply of equipment, training of Laboratory staff and building up of enforcement
            capacity; and
      (iv) Update of Study on Mauritius Drainage System (US$200,000).

23.      Wastewater Sector (US$2 million):
      (i) Feasibility and detailed engineering studies (US$2,000,000) for the Baie de Tombeau
          Sewerage Project Phase III, consisting in the connection of an additional 7,800
          households to the sewerage network in Le Hochet, Riche Terre, Terre Rouge and
          adjoining areas, and the upgrade/enlargement of the existing wastewater treatment
          plants.

24.          Energy Sector (US$2 million):
      (i)     A Renewable Energy Development Study (US$1,800,000); and
      (ii)    Capacity Building (US$200,000) to the Ministry of Renewable Energy and Public
              Utilities (MoREPU) and Central Electricity Board (CEB).


                                                 6
1.6 Revised Components

25.     There were no official revisions made to the components during implementation.
However, changes introduced with the restructuring to reallocate funds on March 16, 2014,
resulted in expansion of the scope of works on the B6 Belle Rive - Quartier Militaire road under
component 1 and reduction of the scope of activities under component 2, as some of them were
to be undertaken by the GoM’s own resources, and others completely dropped (the next section
provides details).

1.7 Other significant changes

26.      Project Restructurings: The scope of the project was slightly changed at the Client’s
request dated February 24, 2014, to include additional works on the B6 Belle Rive - Quartier
Militaire Road, such as additional junctions, one bridge, and improvement works in three
villages. Accordingly, the Level 2 project restructuring was approved by Country Director on
March 16, 2014, to reallocate funds from component 2 – Technical Assistance under Category
(1) to component 1 – Upgrading of Belle Rive - Quartier Militaire Road under Categories (2)
and (3). This also reflected the reduced requirements under the programmed Technical
Assistance under component 2, some of which were undertaken with the GoM’s own funding,
and some were completely dropped from the project. Specifically, the following activities were
decided to be funded by the domestic sources: (i) support to the preparation of the PSIP, (ii)
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Designs in the water sector, and (iii) capacity building support
in the energy sector. The dropped and not implemented activities included: (i) reorganization
of the Pollution Control Laboratory, (ii) support to operational establishment of the LTA, and
(iii) bus modernization study. In addition, the Renewable Energy Study was cancelled half way
due to the unsatisfactory performance of the consultant, but was to be completed under the TA
funded by the French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement, AFD).
Annex 2 provides specifics on which activities were dropped from the project and why.

27.    Another Level 2 restructuring for reallocation of funds across categories was approved
by the Country Director on November 19, 2014, to accommodate the greater than expected
expenditure requirements under component 1 for the B6 Belle Rive – Quartier Militaire road
works resulting from the price escalation allowed under the works contract due to the agreed
time extensions. The time extension reflected a delay due to an extreme weather event, a
cyclone, and partial flooding of the works for some weeks. The reallocation also reflected the
reduction in the scope of activities under component 2 (Technical Assistance).

28.    After the project closed on December 31, 2014, with a final disbursement deadline date
of April 30, 2015, the undisbursed balance of US$2,300,794.17 was effectively cancelled on
April 30, 2015.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

29.    The MIP was a complex project prepared within the resource and time constraints in a
challenging political economy context. The Bank team accommodated the government’s
change of priorities by shifting late in the preparation process from the initially planned project
focused primarily on the BRT system towards supporting the broader infrastructure agenda
under the PSIP. As a result, the project was reshaped and delivered quickly and under

                                                7
considerable pressure from the MoFED. While the Bank team’s engagement on technical level
was strong at entry, the political economy aspects in the project design were overlooked.
Moreover, the politically significant projects and accompanying reforms driven by the MoFED
had limited buy-in from the sector ministries, such as those for the establishment of a Land
Transport Agency (LTA) and the development of the BRT and Bus Modernization Program.

30.     Soundness of the Background Analysis. The analysis of the national context and sector
background is found to be sound, reflecting on the experiences and lessons of previous Bank
financed projects in Mauritius - two highway projects, which closed in 1995 and 1999
respectively, the Port Development and Environment Protection Project, which closed in 2002,
and the Environmental Sewerage and Sanitation Project, which closed in 2006. Furthermore,
the project design incorporated lessons learned from energy and water projects funded by other
development partners, such as AFD, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the
European Union (EU), Nordic Investment Bank, and others. However, as mentioned above, the
background analysis and understanding of the political economy aspects was lacking in the
project design, especially in the context of the upcoming general elections planned a year after
the Board approval date.

31.      Adequacy of Government Commitment. The project was strongly supported by the
GoM at the high level during preparation, as all the activities included in the project were the
priorities of the MoFED at the time. Many of the procurements were already ongoing for some
of the project activities, funded through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), and were at an
advanced stage by the time of effectiveness. These included, the consulting services to prepare
the BRT and LTA studies as well as the Renewable Energy Study, and the Water Master Plan.
The transport interventions and technical assistance to strengthen other infrastructure sectors
and prepare solid ground for the follow up investments in these sectors under the PSIP were
all among the top priorities of the GoM at the time and supported the objectives of the Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS, 2006). The GoM commitment was evidenced by the following: (i)
preparation of the required terms of reference and requests for proposals for a number of
services was completed before project approval; (ii) recognition by the GoM at the time of the
need to undertake comprehensive assessment of key infrastructure requirements and strengthen
institutional capacity to identify and implement large infrastructure projects; and (iii) the
detailed engineering designs for the largest investment in upgrading the B6 Belle Rive –
Quartier Militaire road were completed before Board approval. However, the project was
driven primarily by the MoFED, and buy-in from some of the sector ministries of the reforms
agenda supported under the project was limited.

32.     Assessment of Project Design. The project was designed at the time to respond to the
needs and priorities of the GoM. The intermediate outcome and output indicators were
adequately designed at appraisal from a technical, social, and sustainability standpoint. The
project objectives were important for the country and sector and furthered the CPS (2006) and
PSIP priorities by addressing the bottlenecks in the road infrastructure and supporting
identification and preparation of future infrastructure investments in energy and water.
Nevertheless, the PDO design was too broad and the alignment between the PDO and the
outcome indicators and components was weak, especially in regards to the energy and water
interventions.

33.    In regards to the design of specific components and quality at entry, the PBC pilot sub-
component at entry was lacking the necessary preparatory work to understand the needs and
constraints on the ground before it was designed. First, the allocated funding of US$3 million

                                               8
for PBC contracts is considered insufficient to launch these types of contracts, even on a pilot
basis, in a country with no previous experience. Second, experience had shown that PBC
contracts would not be attractive to the private sector for a road section as short in length as 4,
5 or 8 km, which are the corresponding lengths of the road sections proposed for pilots. The
Bank team could have studied the subject more deeply and advised the client on the required
steps to be taken in order to introduce successfully this new maintenance method in Mauritius
and designed this sub-component with a more realistic allocation and timeline. However, it is
recognised that the team was under considerable pressure from the MoFED to deliver the
project, which explains the limited preparation of this aspect. But as a result, this sub-
component was not utilized, though remained relevant for the sector (see additional discussion
in section 5.1-a – Bank Performance Ensuring Quality at Entry).

34.     Assessment of Risks. The overall risk of the project was rated as modest at entry and
the overall residual risk as low. In general, the project’s potential risks and the measures to
mitigate them were identified adequately and incorporated in the project design. However, an
important risk, which has been underestimated and not sufficiently analysed during project
preparation and design, is the unstable political economy and the upcoming elections, which
are key factors affecting delays in implementation and cancellation of some major activities
under the project. Another risk, although recognized during preparation, proved to be
particularly recalcitrant and even more significant throughout the implementation of the project.
This was the implementation capacity of the sector agencies and line ministries, and especially
the capacity of the Ministry of Public Infrastructure, Land Transport and Shipping (MoPILTS)
to coordinate and oversee the implementation of the MIP as the chair of the Project Plan
Committee (PPC). The PPC had been established at the request of the MoFED to screen,
prioritize, and select the priority projects in the public investment project, and included
representatives from all line agencies and infrastructure ministries. It was also identified, again
at the behest of the MoFED, as the appropriate body to oversee the project.

35.      In regards to ratings, most of the risks emerged and remained high throughout the
implementation of the project: (i) the risk of lack of commitment from the GoM to implement
the loan and materialize the investments to be identified and prepared under the project; (ii) the
risk of delays in the institutional arrangements to create LTA; and (iii) gap that may materialize
between project costs estimates at appraisal and real costs at bid presentation. Also, the risks
expected to be moderate or low became the highest risks for the project affecting and
jeopardizing implementation progress. Specifically, the Financial Management (FM) risk
rating related to the disbursements and financial reporting was moderate and low after
mitigation, however it remained high throughout the project with delayed disbursement during
the first 3 years and systematic delays in the submission of Interim Financial Reports (IFRs).
This improved by the fourth year of the project after the Auditor General’s office took over
formal responsibility for the FM aspects of the project.

2.2 Implementation

36.     The project implementation progress was satisfactory in terms of completion in a timely
and satisfactory manner of the large infrastructure works under component 1 (upgrade of the
B6 road section and rehabilitation of the three highway section) executed by the RDA, and
some of the studies in the transport and water sectors implemented by the respective line
ministries. However, the overall progress is rated moderately satisfactory taking account that
due to changes in priorities and subsequent GoM decisions, a number of activities were either
not implemented or implemented with the GoM’s domestic source (Annex 2 provides details

                                                9
on completed and dropped activities, by output, component and responsible implementing
agency). The main issues and changes that emerged during implementation and affected
progress are discussed below:

Factors generally subject to Government Control

37.     Disbursements were delayed significantly during the first three years of
implementation, despite a number of contracts being awarded, completed or significantly
advanced. By October 2011 (20 months after effectiveness), with the works and services
completed or significantly advanced amounting to about US$12 million that was being paid by
the budget, the actual disbursement in the project was only 8.4 percent (five times below the
projected amount). The main reasons for disbursement delays were the unfamiliarity and lack
of understanding of the Bank’s disbursement process, delays with opening the designated
account and submission of specimen signatories, and delay in appointing a Project Manager or
nominated FM specialist responsible for overseeing timely submission and coordination of FM
issues across various implementing agencies. The Bank team had repeatedly identified the
flow of project funds as being main obstacle to the disbursements and had recommended
remedial measures, but the government was slow to implement the solutions and a year later
there were still no disbursements. Even after the signing of the largest contract for B6 road
upgrading works on April 29, 2011, all the works and services were being paid from the local
budget funds. By June 2012, the actual bottlenecks preventing disbursement were finally
resolved, as discussed in more details in section on fiduciary compliance (section 2.4 –
Financial Management). Subsequently, by November 2012 the total disbursement increased
from 8.4 percent to 47 percent, and followed the revised projection reaching 95 percent by
project closing.

38.      A number of activities were dropped from the project mainly as a result of changes
in political priorities or decision of the GoM to pay for some activities with domestic funds
rather than with IBRD loan. The following activities were either dropped entirely due to
Borrower’s changed priorities after the 2010 general elections or undertaken by the Borrower
with domestic sources, specifically: (i) technical assistance and capacity building to assist in
the elaboration and finalization of the PSIP was dropped and implemented with GoM’s own
resources; (ii) assistance to the agencies in charge of land transport was requested to be dropped
by the Borrower and be included in the next project; (iii) assistance for operationalization of
the LTA was dropped as the LTA was not yet fully operational by the project closing; (iv) BRT
and Bus Reform Study was dropped at the Borrower’s request as the GoM changed its focus
towards construction of the Light Rail Transit, funded from other sources; (v) feasibility study
for Rodrigues Airport was completed with GoM’s own funds; (vi) feasibility study for the
South Mauritius Water Supply project was completed with Borrower’s own funds and studies
for North Water Supply and Calebasses dam projects were dropped due to shift in sector
priorities in accordance with the Water Sector Master Plan prepared under the project; (vii)
reorganization of Pollution Control Laboratory was dropped since similar labs were already in
place and there was no longer a need for this Laboratory; (viii) the contract for the Renewable
Energy Development study was terminated due to poor performance of the consultant, and the
study was planned to be completed with the support from other development partners; (ix)
capacity building support in energy sector was dropped following the Borrower’s decision not
use loan funds for training; and (x) the PBC pilot was dropped due to insufficiently allocated
financing and inadequately designed sub-component (see also section 2.1 above). Annex 2
provides details on completed and dropped activities, by output, component and responsible
implementing agency.

                                               10
39.    The political debate around the BRT and Bus Modernization Program kept the
contract signing with the selected consultant hanging without any decision from the
Government side. The debate was driven by the elections campaign and political shifts
promoting Light Rail Transit (LRT) as an alternative to the BRT. After having explicitly
requested, committed and accelerated the procurement process for this study in the hope of
launching an IBRD financed project for BRT within the next 18 months after MIP’s approval,
the Government suddenly started backing up on its commitments within the first year of project
implementation and at a very advanced procurement stage for the respective consulting
services. Moreover, the delays with the establishment of the LTA after the passing of the bill
by the Parliament jeopardized some of the technical assistance activities under the MIP to
support the establishment, training and capacity building of this new agency.

40.     The issues raised by the 2013 Mid-Term Review were fully addressed and resolved by
the project closing. A Mid-Term Review (MTR) was carried out on February 16-29, 2013.
The main findings and issues raised by the MTR were as follows: (i) 70 percent completion of
the works to upgrade the B6 road; (ii) inadequate and negligible routine maintenance on the
three rehabilitated highway section, with clear sign of the rehabilitation works already wearing
off, lack of repair to the safety barriers and excess vegetation. This was acknowledged by the
RDA as an issue to be addressed; (iii) the progress of compensation for the land acquisition for
the B6 works was slow and posed a risk that the compensation process would not be completed
before completion of the upgrading of the road. This required close monitoring by the RDA
of the implementation of expropriation under a Land Acquisition Plan (LAP); (iv) in financial
management of the project, delays in receipt of required interim unaudited reports and
withdrawal requests were flagged; (v) in regards to procurement, all processes were in
compliance and all activities financed by the loan were closed and completed, except the B6
road works and Land Drainage study; and (vi) reallocation of proceeds was required to cover
costs increases for the upgrading of the B6 road. All these issues were addressed and resolved
by the project closing.

Factors outside the Control of the Government

41.      The B6 rehabilitation works resulted in costs which exceeded the appraisal estimate
by about 50 percent. The cost of upgrading of the B6 Belle Rive – Quartier Militaire Road was
revised from US$22.7 million allocated in the project appraisal stage to approximately US$32
million after the project effectiveness date. The ICR team found that the cost estimates of
upgrading B6 road were not carefully checked at the project appraisal stage in December 2009.
It was not until the completion of the bidding documents in late 2010 that the cost estimates
were updated and revised to US$31.7 million (constituting about a 20 percent increase). This
increase reflected the requests from stakeholders to incorporate additional works on the B6
Belle Rive - Quartier Militaire Road, such as additional junctions, one bridge, and improvement
works in three villages. There were further increases in cost, reflecting delay induced by
inclement weather and a flooding issue on one section, which resulted in the further increase
of the contract amount to about US$35 million total. Since some of the initially planned
activities were already funded directly by the GoM and some were not going forward due to a
change in priorities, the additional cost increase was accommodated by a restructuring within
the project loan. The Bank team also proposed to transfer some of the longer term technical
assistance and capacity building activities (including the PBC contracts) to a subsequent Bank
operation, which was already under preparation. However, that project was dropped at


                                              11
appraisal stage, reflecting a change in the priorities of the GoM ahead of the 2013 general
election.

42.      Consequently, Project Restructurings were carried out to reallocate proceeds for
increase in costs of works. Following the Client’s request to include additional works on the
B6 Road, the Level 2 project restructuring was prepared by the Bank team and approved by
Country Director on March 16, 2014, to reallocate funds from component 2 – Technical
Assistance under Category (1) to component 1 – Upgrading of Belle Rive - Quartier Militaire
Road under Categories (2) and (3). As mentioned above, some of the programmed Technical
Assistance activities under component 2 were undertaken with the GoM’s own funding, and
some were completely dropped from the project. Specifically, the following activities were
taken over by the GoM’s own funding: (i) support to the preparation of the PSIP and (ii)
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Designs in the water sector. The dropped and not implemented
activities included: (i) reorganization of the Pollution Control Laboratory, (ii) renewable
energy study, and (iii) support to establish the Land Transport Authority, and (iv) bus
modernization study.

43.    Another Level 2 restructuring for reallocation of funds across categories was approved
by the Country Director on November 19, 2014, to accommodate the greater than expected
expenditure requirements under component 1 for the B6 Belle Rive – Quartier Militaire road
works resulting from the price escalation allowed under the works contract due to the agreed
time extensions. The reallocation also reflected the reduction in the scope of activities under
component 2 (Technical Assistance).

44.     The main factors contributing to these cost overruns was unanticipated increase in
crude oil prices and lower engineering design specifications included at appraisal. The crude
oil prices were at approximately US$40 per barrel at the time of appraisal in 2008, and
increased to approximately US$80 by the time the bidding documents were completed at the
end of 2010. The design change from simple widening of the existing highway to widening
plus construction of bypasses was not reflected in the cost estimates during preparation. During
preparation, the design for upgrading B6 road was expected to comprise rehabilitation and
widening from 5.5-6.5 meters to 7.5 meters, slight modifications to the alignment to smoothen
the sharpest curves and the construction of a round-about in Belle Rive, for which the total cost
was estimated at US$25 million. At the appraisal stage, the design then included the
construction of bypasses to the village of Valetta and Quartier Militaire, instead of simple
widening of the road through both villages; however, the cost was not updated to account for
the changes in design. Nevertheless, it is important to note that since the road passes through
the semi-urban settings, it is more challenging to accurately estimate costs as there is a
considerable number of additional and ancillary works (e.g. drainage works and retaining walls
in the case of the B6 contract) that are hard to detail in the Bill of Quantities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

45.     Design. Project M&E was based on the agreed Results Framework and monitoring
arrangements designed at appraisal. The intermediate outcome and output indicators were
adequately designed at appraisal from a technical, social, and sustainability standpoint.
However, the PDO as designed was too broad and lacked the strong linkage with the outcome
indicators and components, especially with regard to the energy and water interventions. In
addition, there is a weak causal linkage in the results chain between the project components
and two of the outcome indicators related to the increase in disbursement ratio of PSIP budgets

                                               12
and the increase in the number of projects in the PSIP, making it difficult to assess and attribute
the project interventions. While it is clear that all the outcome indicators provide a
measurement of the achievement with respect to the transport interventions, the achievement
of the energy and water sector objectives can be assessed based on the output indicators only.
It is also important to highlight that the second outcome indicator – “Number of (and value) of
projects in the infrastructure sector implemented, being implemented, or ready for
implementation as defined in the PSIP” – is missing a target value; and the fourth indicator –
“Number of accidents per year on Quartier Militaire Road” – is also missing the target value.

46.      The Bank team did not restructure the project to reflect the changes in the government’s
priorities in order to adjust the results framework and drop the indicators associated with the
dropped activities. Consequently, there are zero or values below targets for some of the output
indicators at the end of the project, which essentially affects and penalizes the overall ratings
for the project. This could have been avoided if the indicators were dropped when determined
to be irrelevant. The Bank team could have taken advantage of restructuring carried out to
adjust and drop the indicators.

47.     Implementation and Use. The PPC chaired by the MoPILTS was charged with the
responsibility to collect data to report on progress of achievement of the indicator targets in
collaboration with the designated focal point in each beneficiary agency. The designated focal
points of the beneficiary agencies were responsible for the data collection and reporting on
indicators related to their respective component and subcomponent. However, the reporting of
indicators on the client’s side remained weak throughout the project implementation reflecting
partly the weak implementation arrangements, lack of coordination among implementing
agencies and lack of coordinating leadership, and absence of the Project Manager, who was
not appointed until much later during implementation. Moreover, the M&E was not utilized
effectively to identify problems during the implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

48.     Environmental Safeguards. Project preparation with regards to safeguard aspects was
carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines and reflected in the Project’s Operational
Manual. The project was rated as Environmental Category B, Partial Assessment.
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) safeguards policy was triggered under the project.
Accordingly, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was prepared for the upgrade of the
Quartier Militaire road section and Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the periodic
maintenance of the three highway sections. These were disclosed prior to appraisal and were
implemented by the GoM in a satisfactory manner. Project performance was consistently rated
satisfactory for compliance with environmental safeguard policy. The Bank team’s site visits
confirmed that occupational health and safety standards were generally followed by the
contractors, construction sites were well maintained, construction waste was being removed
and/or reused in a timely manner, and borrow pits were established. Appropriate safety
measures were taken for temporary road diversions along the route. In cases where trees were
cut down for the project, replanting was carried out in consultation with the Conservator of
Forests.

49.    In addition, the Safeguards Diagnostic Review (SDR) was carried out in July 2010,
concluding that Mauritius’ environmental policies were sufficiently robust to meet the WB and
other development partner safeguard requirements, if complemented by project-specific
environmental management plans to fill in the legislative and capacity gaps and good oversight
and monitoring, and that they were being implemented in a satisfactory manner. The review

                                                13
also recommended that in the long term Mauritius’ environmental and social safeguard policies
and regulations needed to be further developed as well as country’s capacity to implement these
policies and regulations needed to be improved to reach good international standards.

50.     Social Safeguards. Project preparation and implementation of the social safeguards
was carried out in a satisfactory manner with the Bank’s requirements. Involuntary
Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) was triggered under the project. Upgrading of B6 Belle Rive -
Quartier Militaire Road required land acquisition and compensation to the Project Affected
People (PAPs). Accordingly, an Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan (ARAP), or Land
Acquisition Plan (LAP) used in Mauritius, was prepared and disclosed prior to appraisal and
was implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank before the commencement of respective
works. This was ensured through a very close supervision of the process by the Bank’s
safeguards specialist with almost bi-monthly missions. The compensation for the land
acquisition was paid by the GoM’s own resources in the amount of US$1.1 million. The
allocation was made to the Ministry of Housing and Lands and placed in a separate escrow
account for the purposes of compensating for the land acquired for the upgrading of the B6
road section. This was the first project, in which such approach was followed and was accepted
by the Bank as the proof of compensation for resettlement.

51.     Financial Management (FM): The financial management compliance was rated
moderately satisfactory and even once downgraded to unsatisfactory during implementation.
The submissions of IFRs, audited financial statements and audit reports were consistently and
significantly delayed. The disbursements were lagging behind with only eight percent
disbursed 20 months after project effectiveness, when implementation was progressing well
with some activities already completed or significantly advanced. These activities were paid
from the GoM’s own budget and no disbursement requests from the loan were being submitted
to the Bank. By June 2012, the following were identified as being the main obstacles
preventing disbursement: (i) non-compliance and inadequacy of FM arrangements; (ii) delay
in designation of a dedicated project FM specialist; (iii) incompleteness of the project codes in
the Government Treasury Accounting System (TAS) chart of account, which prevented the
flow of loan funds, consolidation of project transactions, and preparation of appropriate
financial reports. In November 2012, a decision was made by the Government to strengthen
the FM arrangements by transferring the responsibility for FM for all donor-funded projects to
the office of the Accountant General, which as a result ensured more adequate FM
arrangements with suitably qualified and experienced officials to perform the tasks.
Subsequently, disbursements started increasing gradually following the revised projection and
by the project closing date 95 percent of the loan was effectively disbursed with the undisbursed
balance of US$2,300,794.17 cancelled on April 30, 2015.

52.     Procurement. The procurement processes for all activities under the project were
conducted in full compliance with the Bank’s procedures. During the implementation, there
were delays in updating the Procurement Plan by the implementing agencies on a timely
manner and communication problems between the PPC and the line ministries in regards to the
status of no objection requests submitted to the Bank. These, however, stem from the
fundamental issues related to implementation arrangements discussed earlier, such as lack of
coordination among the implementing agencies, PPC’s unfamiliarity and lack of experience
with the Bank processes and requirements, lack of accountability within the PPC for the project,
and substantial delay in appointment of a Project Manager or Coordinator. There were also
some delays in procurement processes evidenced by an 18 month gap between the submission
of bids and contract signing for the LTA study. These delays were caused, as discussed earlier,


                                               14
by the deferred decision-making of the Government, given the political sensitivity of
establishment of the LTA and the shifting priorities in the pre-election political arena in regards
to supporting the necessary reforms.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

53.     Sustainability remains a concern, as there has been an imbalance in spending in the
sector. Over the period 2010-12, the RDA has been spending approximately MUR 155 million
per annum (US$5.3 million equivalent) on routine maintenance, and MUR 846.1 million per
annum (US$29 million equivalent) on scheduled periodic and upgrading work on the entire
primary network. The majority of the expenditure is on upgrading, with a lessor share on
necessary maintenance. Currently the maintenance of roads is planned on an annual basis for
work to be carried out through annual maintenance contracts, or on a weekly basis for work to
be carried out by direct labor employed by the RDA. But the system is not working. The impact
of the limited maintenance is clear, with visible cracking, deformation, edge break, blocked
weep-holes and gullies, overgrown verges, uncured drains, damaged guardrails and handrails,
and dirty road furniture etc. The concomitant is an increased rate of network deterioration,
resulting in increased costs for road users, and creating a contingent liability of future
rehabilitation costs. The Bank was working with the RDA to define an Asset Management
Strategy, and pilot PBC contracts under the follow up operation on Road Asset Management
and Safety, for which the preparation was advanced but stopped at the request of the GoM due
to the upcoming elections. The implementation of pilot PBCs is now going ahead with the
RDA funding.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Substantial

54.     The relevance of the PDOs is considered high. The PDO has remained aligned with
the country’s goal to improve economic growth and reduce poverty and with current priorities
of the GoM. The project was consistent with the objective of the CPS, dated October 12, 2006,
to help the government realize successfully Mauritius’ transition to a more competitive and
sophisticated economy that requires the removal of infrastructure bottlenecks. The MIP was
directly contributing to the GoM’s priorities through supporting the development of PSIP
towards achievement of the objective of the 18-month action plan. In addition, the project was
aligned with the 10-year road maintenance program (2009-2018) prepared by the RDA, the 20-
year National Sewerage Master Plan (NSMP) (1993-2012), and the National Sewerage
Program (NSP).          The project development objective remains very relevant for
Mauritius. The capacity of many of the line agencies to identify, design, implement and
supervise investment projects remains weak, and the need to improve public investment
management more generally is highlighted in the draft Strategic Country Diagnostic (SCD) as
a potential area of future engagement.

55.     The relevance of project design is rated modest. The project investment components
separately were in line with the country’s priorities at the time of appraisal, however, the
linkage between the PDO and the components was weak. The lending instrument was the
Specific Investment and Maintenance Loan (SIM) and was found appropriate as it allowed for
value added offered by the Bank in closely accompanying and monitoring the implementation
of the projects through close technical supervision, procurement advice, safeguards monitoring,
etc. The implementation arrangements were set up with at least eight implementing agencies,
                                                15
including RDA and sector ministries responsible for specific outputs and a PPC under the
MoPILTS, which had proven to be ineffective and became irrelevant when activities
implemented by the Ministry of Energy were all dropped. The reduction and revision of the
scope of some activities under both components made sense on two fronts: (i) removed
activities that were either no longer relevant due to change in country’s political priorities or
were implemented by the Government’s own funds or other donors, and (ii) allowed to
accommodate reallocation of funds to cover the increased costs for the major road works.
Nevertheless, the corresponding adjustments resulting from this reduction in the scope of some
components were not properly reflected in the results framework and PDO to ensure that the
indicators and their targets were aligned with the PDO given the change in the scope of
components. Specifically, this refers to the dropped PBC sub-component, BRT study,
Renewable Energy Study and capacity building in the energy sector. Thus the modest rating
for the relevance of the overall project design.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

56.     Overall, the project has completed all planned activities, except those dropped at the
request of the Government (Annex 2 presents detailed list of completed and dropped outputs
explaining the reasons for the dropped ones). The project has met the targets for the two out
of three PDO indicators, and end targets for 11 out of 14 intermediate indicators. The PDO is
considered to have been largely achieved.

57.     The project contributed through its support in developing the feasibility studies and
other technical assistance (4 in the transport sector and 3 in the water/wastewater sectors), to
the increased number and value of projects in the infrastructure sector, which reached 49
projects estimated at US$1.6 billion in value, a substantial increase from a zero baseline figure.
Though some activities were dropped, corresponding to output indicators that were not
achieved, such the completion of Pollution Control Laboratory, Renewable Energy Study, and
Preparation of PSIP, the project’s contribution towards formulation of the PSIP was significant.
In addition, the disbursements of annual capital budgets related to PSIP have reached 85
percent by the project end, exceeded the original target of 80 percent, to which the project
contributed substantially by supporting implementation and timely completion of the road
investments as part of the first module of PSIP.

58.     Improving the infrastructure in the transport sector. In regards to transport, PDO was
substantially achieved with the travel times on Quartier Militaire road being reduced from 10
minutes to 5 minutes, exceeding the target by 110 percent, and number of accidents per year
on the same road decreasing significantly from 11 to 1 accident. Additionally, two intermediate
outcome indicators were successfully achieved, specifically 12.1 km of road was upgraded
exceeding targeted 7.5 km and periodic maintenance was completed on total of 17 km of
targeted roads. The third intermediate output indicator on the “number of PBC contracts being
implemented for routine maintenance” is expected to be met after project closure, as the RDA
is proceeding with piloting performance based maintenance, using their own resources, and on
the basis of the findings and recommendations of the Asset Management Strategy study funded
through the PPIAF grant. Though, the respective intermediate results indicator was not dropped,
it does not have any adverse impact on the PDO and outcomes of the project. In addition, the
following transport sector output indicators were achieved: (i) completion of four feasibility
studies in the transport sector as contributions to the PSIP (Pedestrian Underpass, RMS, East-
West Connector, and Rodrigues Airport, though the latter was completed by the GoM’s own
sources); and (ii) establishment of LTA (to be operationalized after the project).
                                               16
59.     Improving the infrastructure in the water sector. The completion of the following
outputs in water/wastewater sectors contributed significantly towards achievement of the PDO
outcome indicator on the number of infrastructure projects ready for implementation under the
PSIP: (i) completion and adoption of the Master Plan for Water Resources, which defines a
number of priority water projects to take forward; (ii) completion of the feasibility study and
detailed design for the Land Drainage; and (iii) completion of the necessary studies and
ongoing implementation of the Baie de Tambeau Phase III project. The activity that was
dropped is the operationalization of the Pollution Control Laboratory, which was dropped at
Client’s request as there were two other similar labs already in place, which had been upgraded
with GoM’s own funds. The fact that this outputs indicator was not achieved has no adverse
impact on the achievement of PDO and project outcomes.

60.     Improving the infrastructure in the energy sector. The activities under the energy
component were dropped, namely the preparation of a Renewable Energy Study, which was
launched but terminated half way through due to unsatisfactory performance of the consultant.
However, this study was subsequently taken forward with support from the AFD, and agreed
with the Bank team. The fact that this outputs indicator was not achieved has no adverse impact
on the achievement of PDO and project outcomes.

61.    Given the above assessment and summary of achievement of the outcome indicators in
Table 1 below, the achievement of the PDO is rated substantial.

                                   Table 1. Assessment of Efficacy
                     PDO Indicator                           Targets      Actual Values    Percent Achieved

                                  Aggregate Rating of Efficacy: Substantial

  PDO: to assist the Borrower to improve the national infrastructure with an emphasis on the transport,
  energy, and water sectors.
  (i) Disbursement ratio of annual capital budgets             80%             85%               106%
  related to PSIP
  (ii) Number (and value) of projects in the                   N/A            49             Increase from
  infrastructure sector implemented, being implemented,                   (US$1.6 bln)        baseline of 0
  or ready for implementation as defined in the PSIP
  (iii) Travel times (minutes)                                 5.5              5               111%
  (iv) Number of accidents per year on Quartier                N/A              1           Decrease from
  Militaire Road.                                                                           baseline of 11



3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Modest

62.     The costs of the works contracts were considered acceptable and consistent with
regional norms. There was a significant cost increase in the works contract from the appraisal
stage estimate, for the B6 Quartier Militaire-Belle Rive Road reflecting a decision, subsequent
to Board approval, to change the scope of the works and include the construction of bypasses,
additional junctions, one bridge, and improvement works in the three villages. During
construction, problems caused by a cyclone, and inundation of works, led to a further delay in
time, and a request for an extension, agreed with the client. This was considered reasonable.

63.   This rehabilitated section is an important link for alleviating traffic congestion and
improving road safety between highly populated areas along Motorway 2 (M2) and the eastern

                                                     17
region. The construction of the bypasses and the improvement of the road has led to a marked
reduction in both travel time between Wooton and Quartiers Militaire from 10 minutes to five
minutes, a reduction in fatal and serious accidents decreasing from 11 to 1, and a marked
improvement in the ambiance of the bypassed communities.

64.     The ex-post economic evaluation of the Upgrading of B6 Belle Rive - Quartier Militaire
Road, which accounts for 67 percent of the expanded loan amount, followed the same approach
as the ex-ante economic analysis, i.e. estimating road users’ surplus using the Highway
Development and Management Model (HDM-4). Concretely, the evaluation calculated
benefits to road users (as compared to a without-project scenario) in terms of savings in travel
time savings and vehicle operating costs, as well as costs of the investments in road works, and
assessed streams of a net economic benefits to a society. Based on the analysis, the net present
value (NPV), at a 10 percent discount rate, and the related internal rate of return (IRR) of the
investments over 20 years were respectively estimated at MUR 179 million and 11.7 percent
respectively. Though the results demonstrated that the project remains economically feasible,
the values of NPV and IRR are much smaller than those estimated at the feasibility stage. This
is mainly due to (i) increase in civil works cost by 46 percent and (ii) 27 percent lower traffic
volume in 2012 compared to the projected value at appraisal. Therefore, the efficiency is rated
modest.

65.     Nevertheless, neither the ex-ante nor ex-post economic evaluation take into
consideration the savings from the reduction in road traffic fatalities and benefits to the
pedestrians and non-motorized traffic from the widening of the road, which could be more
significant and demonstrate the greater efficiency of the project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66.     Relevance. The overall relevance is rated substantial based on the high relevance of the
project objectives and modest relevance of the design. The GoM’s commitment was high at
appraisal but declined subsequently for some of the sub-components, which affected the
relevance of some of the project activities while the overall development objectives remained
highly consistent with the GoM’s PSIP and the Bank’s SCD.

67.     Efficacy. The overall efficacy is rated substantial as evidenced by the achievement of
all the PDO outcomes, given that the project contributed to: (i) improved implementation
capacity by infrastructure agencies of investments increasing disbursement ratio of annual
capital budgets related to PSIP from 50 percent to 85; (ii) increased capacity to identify and
prepare infrastructure projects with additional 49 projects included in the PSIP for a total of
US$1.6 billion; (iii) reduced congestion and travel time savings from 10 to 5 minutes on the
Quartier Militaire road section; and (iv) improved road safety on the same road with reduced
accidents per year from 11 to 1. The dropped activities from the project did not have any
adverse impact on the PDO achievement and overall project outcome.

68.     Efficiency. The project efficiency is rated modest as while the economic assessment of
the largest investment under the project (upgrade of the Belle Rive – Quartier Militaire road)
yields robust returns, a number of activities and outputs included in the project were either
dropped or not implemented.

69.     Considering the discussion above on the project’s achievement of its objectives, in its
efficiency and relevance, the overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.

                                               18
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

70.      The project envisaged under component 2, a major allocation of funds to support
institutional strengthening and capacity building to assist the GoM in formulation of the long
term PSIP and prepare the ground for the next series of infrastructure investments, to be funded
either by the Bank or other development partners. The capacity building was included for the
energy, water and transport agencies, however, given the decision of the government not to use
loan proceeds for training, these activities were dropped. The capacity of key agencies still
remains weak for taking forward and implementing large infrastructure investments.

71.     Major institutional change would be in place through the establishment of the LTA,
which was approved by the Parliament in 2010, and is now being operationally established.
Technical Assistance for establishment of the Board, staffing, and training of the staff of the
LTA was part of the project’s scope. However, due to delays in signing the contract with the
consultant and political debates and election campaigns, the establishment took longer than
expected, though prior stakeholder consensus had been reached. By the end of the project, the
LTA was only established but not yet operational. The LTA is expected to take over the
responsibilities of the RDA, NTA and TMRSU, as well as (i) provide the necessary institutional
mechanisms for integrated and coordinated policy formulation, planning, project
implementation, and transport systems management; (ii) produce a land transport master plan,
manage transport resources effectively and plan, (iii) execute and manage all land transport
projects; and (iv) remove duplication and bureaucracy and improve cost efficiency.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

72.     The risk to development outcome is rated substantial taking into account concerns of
sustainability of the road infrastructure investments made through project and the functioning
of LTA, and constantly changing political priorities in regards to planned infrastructure
investments under the PSIP. However, whilst the PSIP process has been sustained, the
sustainability of the road assets rehabilitated and upgraded under the project remains a concern,
as there has been an imbalance in spending in the sector. The impact of the limited routine
maintenance is clear, with already some visible wear offs and vegetation destroying the
rehabilitated highways. The Bank was working with the RDA to define an Asset Management
Strategy, and support the RDA in piloting PBC contracts as part of the implementation of that
strategy. This is now going ahead with RDA funding, as the prospective Road Asset
Management and Safety Project was dropped.


                                               19
73.     The establishment of the LTA, though passed and approved by the Parliament, has still
not been operationalized to take over the functions of the three land transport agencies. Thus
the future of the LTA and its capacity remain unclear. Moreover, constantly changing political
arena and priorities may jeopardize the implementation of the infrastructure investment
projects, which this project supported to prepare in the water and transport sectors.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.     In the context of challenging political economy at preparation, the Bank team was
flexible to respond to Client’s needs and requests and provided a PPF in the amount of US$2
million for project preparation, which was originally issued for an urban transport project but
conveniently was converted to the MIP with constrained resources and time. However, the
Borrower only utilized US$74,000 of the whole amount. The PPF was consequently cancelled
on January 13, 2009. The last minute change in the project scope and design in order to offer
a broader support to the PSIP required reworking of the financial and implementation
arrangements within a limited timeframe. The rushed preparation is reflected in the weaker-
than-desired design of PDO and results framework and insufficient due-diligence preparatory
work for some of the activities in the water and energy sectors.

75.     In regards to the design of specific components and quality at entry, the Bank team
recognized the weak institutional and human capacity for implementing large infrastructure
projects and included technical assistance component to support institutional and capacity
strengthening in key infrastructure sectors. However, having recognized this, the team agreed
to an implementation arrangement structure, which was overly complicated, fragmented and
dispersed, and despite the Bank team’s oversight and frequent missions resulted in
disbursement delays during the first three years.

76.     In addition, the design of the PBC pilot sub-component at entry was lacking the
necessary prior preparatory work to understand the needs and constraints on the ground before
it was designed. The Bank team could have studied the subject more deeply and advised the
client on the required steps to be taken in order to introduce successfully this new maintenance
method in Mauritius and designed this sub-component with a more realistic allocation and
timeline. As a result, this sub-component was not utilized, though remained relevant for the
sector. Also, the cost estimates for the B6 road upgrade was not adjusted during appraisal to
account for the inclusion of bypasses rather than just widening of road near villages. In terms
of the team composition, there was expertise lacking in the team participating in project
preparation missions in the area of PBC contracts.

77.     Considering that the team was able to accommodate the changing priorities of the client
and respond to them quickly within the time and resource constraints, the Bank performance
at entry is moderately satisfactory.




                                              20
(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78.     The Bank provided constant support in the technical and fiduciary areas to the
MoPILTS, the line ministries (MoREPU, Ministry of Environment and National Development
Unit (MoENDU), and MoFED) and sector agencies (RDA, CEB, Water Resources Unit
[WRU], and WMA). The Bank team closely supervised and monitored the implementation of
the LAP, which ensured timely compliance of RDA in regards to compensation for land
acquisition prior to completion of the B6 road upgrade. During the period prior to effectiveness
and during the first years of project implementation, the Bank team was able to accommodate
the government’s request for a more extended presence in Mauritius and conducted supervision
missions on a monthly basis. The Bank team was also persistent and diligent in following up
on the implementation progress and addressing any issues immediately. However, the unstable
political arena with constantly changing priorities and frequently changing agenda priorities
have been harmful to the implementation of the project, especially in regards to decision of
great political weight and impact on the country, such as setting up of new agency LTA and
proceeding with Bus Modernization and BRT studies.

79.     During the course of implementation, the Bank team recognized the insufficient
resources allocated for piloting the PBM contracting methods in Mauritius and in an attempt
to support the GoM in launching the PBC contracts in a proper way and at the official request
of the GoM, the Bank initiated the preparation of the follow up project, MIP II. However,
when the project preparation was already at appraisal stage, the GoM cancelled its request for
IBRD financing due to expected priority shifts in country’s political arena with the upcoming
elections.

80.     Nevertheless, there were a few shortcomings in the Bank’s performance, including the
following: (i) the Bank team did not take advantage of the restructuring to adjust the results
framework and drop the indicators associated with the dropped activities; and (ii) throughout
the project implementation the team reported a PDO in the ISRs, which was inconsistent with
the actual PDO stated both in the PAD and the Loan Agreement. Hence, given these
shortcomings, but considering that the team resolved implementation and disbursement issues
and the project achieved all its outcome indicators despite the difficult political economy
environment, the supervision of the project is rated moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.     The overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory based on the following
assessment: (i) the moderately satisfactory rating for quality at entry due to shortcomings in
the design of PDO and results framework but considering responsiveness of the Bank to
accommodate the client’s changed priorities quickly within the time and resource constraints,
and (ii) the moderately satisfactory rating for quality of supervision due to oversight to timely
restructure the project but considering the Bank’s persistence in resolving the implementation
issues and ensuring completion of major project activities on time in the environment of
challenging political economy.




                                                   21
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

82.     Though the GoM strongly supported the project at the time of entry, most activities
were driven primarily by the MoFED, and the buy-in from the sector ministries was limited
with respect to the reforms agenda leading up to creation of LTA and bus modernization reform.
As a result, when some of the major politically motivated activities lost support at the high
level during the course of implementation, the Borrower’s commitment to the implementation
declined. Specifically, following the elections in 2010, the political debate around the BRT
and Bus Modernization Program kept the contract signing with the selected consultant hanging
without any decision from the Government side. The debate was driven by the elections
campaign and political shifts promoting the LRT as an alternative to the BRT. After having
explicitly requested, committed and accelerated the procurement process for this study in the
hope of launching an IBRD financed project for BRT within the next 18 months after MIP’s
approval, the Government suddenly started backing up on its commitments within the first year
of project implementation and at a very advanced procurement stage for the respective
consulting services. Moreover, the delays with the establishment of the LTA after the passing
of the bill by the Parliament jeopardized some of the technical assistance activates under the
MIP to support the establishment, training and capacity building of this new agency. These
provide an evidence of the lack of Borrower’s commitment in some line Ministries, which
affected implementation in a negative manner. In this regard, the Borrower’s performance is
rated moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

83.    The Ministry of Public Infrastructure, Land Transport and Shipping (MoPILTS) was
charged with the overall responsibility of the loan implementation and coordination among the
line Ministries (MoREPU, MoENDU, and MoFED) and sector agencies (RDA, CEB, WRU,
and WMA). Technical responsibilities over components/sub-components were given to each
sector Ministries and agency for activities pertaining to their respective sectors. Policy
guidance and overall project oversight was under the responsibility of a Project Plan Committee
(PPC) chaired by the MoPILTS with representatives from MoREPU, MoFED, RDA,
MoENDU, and any other agencies.

84.     The delay in appointing or hiring a Project Manager and designation of an FM specialist,
and weak implementation capacity of the PPC and MoPILTS resulted in the delayed
disbursements and uncoordinated communication among implementing agencies on
procurement related matters during the first year of implementation. While some of the
consultancies were already contracted and ongoing, namely Renewable Energy Study, Water
Resources Master Plan, and a few were about to start, no disbursement requests were being
received, though some consulting firms were already paid with client’s own funds. The PPC
charged with the task for FM under the project and submission of disbursement requests, was
not following the process and making submissions for disbursements to the Bank. There were
also consistent delays in updating the Procurement Plan by the implementing agencies in a
timely manner.

85.    This fragmented and dispersed across various agencies implementation arrangement
was lacking leadership and coordination from a designated Project Coordinator or Project
Manager, rather than a committee of several individuals with no clearly defined accountability

                                              22
roles. The implementation for the project lacked clearly defined roles and accountability
structure. Though the appointment of a Program Manager for the project was stipulated
through a covenant in the Loan Agreement, and reminded numerous times by the Bank team,
the MoPILTS found it difficult to fulfil this requirement. Finally, the Bank team reached an
agreement to appoint one of the MoFED’s employees, who was part of the PPC already, as a
Program Manager responsible for following up with the Bank team. Similarly, FM
responsibilities were accepted initially by a consultant employed by the MoFED, who was
responsible for ensuring disbursement requests were forwarded to the Bank timely. This latter
arrangement improved matters, with further improvement coming when the Auditor General’s
office took over responsibilities for FM arrangements.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

86.     The overall Borrower’s Performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory based on the
following assessment: (i) the moderately satisfactory rating for the implementing agency
performance due to slow progress in appointing the project manager and designated financial
management specialist, which led to disbursement delays, and (ii) the moderately
unsatisfactory rating for government’s performance due to its failure to commit to priorities
agreed at project preparation.

6. Lessons Learned

87.     Understanding the political economy risk and accounting for it in the project design
helps to move forward with implementation despite difficult circumstances and changing
government priorities. Government ownership and political economy can pose critical risks,
but the task teams must be able to move forward with implementation despite difficult
circumstances and changing government priorities. Ensuring the buy-in of sector ministries
and agencies early in preparation stage besides securing the high level support is essential for
smooth implementation, especially in multi-stakeholder projects. Basing the design of
components on economic and rational criteria rather than politically driven decisions could
reduce the likely opposition to the project investments in times of political change. Other ways
of holding the Client committed might be ensuring that a project is included in a long-term
national strategy or plan, to which the government is committed regardless of change in
administration. Therefore, lack of commitment from the government or shifts in priorities due
to political change should not preclude having a successful project.

88.     The teams must utilize restructuring when needed to simultaneously advance a
project and to ensure alignment of outcomes, the Results Framework, and the PDO.
Restructuring project indicators in a timely manner is likely to increase the chances of
achieving intended project results, allow a more robust assessment of project outcomes
attributable to the project. Adjusting results indicators to reflect the activities and sub-
components cancelled or adjusted by the Borrower would ensure that the relevance of the
project design and indicators remains high and the outcome ratings are not penalized.
Otherwise, drawing causal linkages between the components and the results framework would
turn an initially well-designed project into a poorly designed one.

89.     Encouraging the Borrowers to conclude the staffing arrangements for project
implementation before the Board approval and confirming the FM arrangements on flow of
funds may reduce the implementation and disbursement delays. In the present of multi-
sectoral and multi-agency implementation arrangements, the Borrowers should be encouraged

                                              23
to confirm a designated project management and FM staff prior to making the project effective.
This could guarantee a smoother implementation and prevent disbursement delays. However,
proper training in financial management of the Project Manager should be provided in advance
and clearly defined roles and accountabilities should be communicated. Any possibility for
having more simplified implementation arrangements with at least less than four agencies
would make such a project more manageable and implementable. Spreading the
implementation and responsibility for fiduciary management of the project across multiple
agencies too thin is most likely to stall the progress and even fail.

90.    Designing performance based contract pilots for routine maintenance requires an
advance and careful preparation and consideration of relevant technical knowledge and best
practices in order to ensure adequate design and allocation of realistic funding and timeline.
Before implementing a pilot PBC contract, a certain amount of time is required for a road
agency to prepare appropriate engineering tools such as service levels, performance indicators,
and engineering standards necessary for road maintenance since these advanced techniques
should be applied taking into account local characteristics such as geography and other
characteristics.

91.     Readiness of the bidding documents for large road works before Board approval may
reduce the likelihood of significant cost overruns. In road projects there are many unexpected
factors potentially affecting costs, making it hard to avoid cost overruns. However, the
magnitude of the cost increases may be substantially reduced (within a 10 percent contingency
allowed) if more precise and realistic bills of quantities within the bidding documents are
prepared early to provide more accurate and realistic cost estimates to the project design.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

92.   There were not comments or issues raised by the Borrower or implementing agency.
The Borrower’s ICR is presented in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                              24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                      Appraisal      Revised      Actual/Latest
                                                                                 Percentage of
          Components                Estimate (USD Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                                  Appraisal
                                       millions)     millions)      millions)
Component 1: Road
                                            36.10          44.00          47.56     131%
Investments
        Upgrading of Belle Rive -
                                            21.60         32.50          33.88       157%
   Quartier Militaire Road: works
        Upgrading of Belle Rive -
     Quartier Militaire Road: land           1.10           1.10           1.10      100%
                        acquisition
            Periodic Maintenance            10.40         10.40          12.58       121%
                             PBCs            3.00           0.00           0.00       0%
Component 2: Technical
Assistance and Institutional
                                            14.87           6.975          1.115      8%
Development in the
Infrastructure sector
             Total Project Costs            50.975         50.975         48.675     95%
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.125          0.125          0.125
     Total Financing Required               51.10          51.10          48.80      95%




(b) Financing
                                             Appraisal    Revised
                                                                     Actual/Latest Percentage
                                 Type of     Estimate     Estimate
       Source of Funds                                                 Estimate        of
                               Cofinancing    (USD         (USD
                                                                    (USD millions) Appraisal
                                             millions)    millions)
Borrower                       Own source      1.10         1.10         1.10        100%
International Bank for
                                 Loan             50.00    50.00         47.70        95%
Reconstruction and Development
TOTAL FINANCING                                   51.10    51.10         48.80        95%




                                             25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                                              Implementing
Project Outputs                                 Agency in            Status of Implementation
                                                 charge
COMPONENT 1: ROAD INVESTMENTS
Sub-component 1.1: Upgrading of Belle Rive – Quartier Militaire Road
 Rehabilitation and widening from 5.5-
    6.5 meters to 7.5 meters, with a 1.5
    meter shoulder on each side, of existing
    12.1 km road between Belle Rive and
    Quartier Militaire. Additional
    improvements:
     -    Construction of 3 roundabouts
                                                RDA           Completed
          along the road section;
     -    Construction of 2 junctions along
          the road section; and
     -    Construction of one 12 meter
          underpass bridge and one 12 meter
          concrete bridge.

   Construction of 1.6 km long bypass in
                                              RDA        Completed
    Veletta village.
 Csontruction of 3.0 km long bypass in
                                              RDA        Completed
    Quartier Militaire village.
Sub-component 1.2: Periodic Maintenance
 Pavement repair, bituminous overlay,
    and upgrading of roundabouts, traffic
    islands and footpaths on Terre Rouge –    RDA        Completed
    Quay D section on M2 road corridor (5
    km of dual carriageway).
 Pavement repair, bituminous overlay,
    reinstatement of hard shoulders, and
    construction of new lined drains on the
                                              RDA        Completed
    Nouvelle France – La Vigie road section
    on M1 highway (8 km of single
    carriageway);
 Pavement repair, bituminous overlay,
    rehabilitation of roundabouts and traffic
    islands, and repair of masonry and earth
                                              RDA        Completed
    drains on parts of the Pamplemousses-
    Grand Baie road section on A13 (4 km
    of single carriageway).
Sub-component 1.3: Performance-Based Routine Maintenance Contracts (PBCs)

                                                             Not implemented
   4 PBC contracts: three for highway
    sections (Terre Rouge – Quay D section
                                                             Reason: Dropped due to insufficiently
    - 5 km, Nouvelle France – La Vigie
                                                             allocated financing for this type of
    section - 8 km, and Pamplemousses-           RDA
                                                             contracts and inadequately designed and
    Grand Baie section - 4 km), and the
                                                             non-implementable sub-component. PBCs
    fourth for a lower-volume road section,
                                                             are under government’s consideration to be
    potentially B20 (Old Flacq Road).
                                                             undertaken with domestic resources.

COMPONENT 2: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN THE
INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR
Sub-component 2.1: Support to the preparation of the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP)


                                                  26
                                                               Not implemented
   2.1.1 Technical assistance and capacity       MoFED
    building to assist in the elaboration and    (formerly
                                                               Reason: has been undertaken and
    finalization of the PSIP.                    MoFEE)
                                                               implemented with GoM’s own funds.
Sub-component 2.2: Transport sector
 2.2.1 Assistance for the setting up of the
                                                               Completed
    Land Transport Authority (LTA)
        -   Study to plan and design LTA
                                                 MoPILTS       Note: The LTA had been established by
            structure; and
                                                               Cabinet Order, but was not yet fully
        -   Establishment and
                                                               operational by the project closing.
            operationalization of LTA.
                                                               Not implemented
                                                  RDA,
   2.2.2 Assistance to the agencies in
                                                 MoPILTS       Reason: requested to be dropped by the
    charge of Land Transport
                                                  (LTS)        Borrower and be included in the next
                                                               project.
                                                               Not implemented under the project

   2.2.3 Assistance strictly related to the                   Reason: due to delays in decision of the
                                                 MoPILTS
    creation and operationalization of the                     Cabinet of Ministers to establish LTA,
                                                  (LTS)
    Land Transport Authority                                   LTA was not yet operational by the project
                                                               closing, thus this assistance could not be
                                                               utilized.
   2.2.4 Supervision and Monitoring of the                    Completed by RDA’s internal resources
    Belle Rive- Quartier - Militaire               RDA         (supervision carried out in-house by the
    upgrading works contract                                   RDA employees).

                                                               Partially completed

                                                               Note: Out of 4 planned studies, only two
                                                               were completed: (i) Study on Pedestrian
   2.2.5 Other Transport Studies in the
                                                  RDA,         Underpass in Place d’Armes in Port Louis
    Urban and Road Transport sub-sectors,
                                                 MoPILTS       and (ii) Study on Establishment of RMS.
    including the BRT and Bus Reform
                                                  (LTS)        The BRT and Bus Reform Study was
    Implementation Study.
                                                               dropped at the Borrower’s request due to
                                                               change in political priorities. The GoM
                                                               decided to construct Light Rail Transit
                                                               instead, funded from other sources.

                                                               Partially completed

                                                               Note: Out of 2 planned studies, only two
                                                   RDA,
   2.2.6 Feasibility, Detailed Design, EIAs,                  were completed, one with GoM’s funds
                                                 MoPILTS
    Tender Documents and whenever                              and the other under the project: (i)
                                                  (LTS),
    needed, Resettlement Action Plans                          Feasibility Study for Rodrigues Airport
                                                 MoFED
                                                               was completed with government’s own
                                                               funds by MoFED, and (ii) Feasibility study
                                                               for the B6/East-West Connector.
Sub-component 2.3: Water
                                                MoREPU (in
   2.3.1 Master Plan for the Water
                                                coordination
    Resources, Rationalization of Water                        Completed
                                                 with WMA
    Rights, Capacity Building
                                                 and WRU)




                                                   27
   2.3.2 Feasibility studies and detailed
                                                               Not implemented under the project
    designs for future investment projects in
    water sector, such as:
                                                               Reason: Feasibility Study for the South
         -   South Mauritius Water Supply
                                                MoREPU (in     Mauritius Water Supply project was
             project;
                                                coordination   completed with government’s own funds.
         -   North Water Supply Project:
                                                 with WMA      Studies for North Water Supply and
             increasing in storage capacity
                                                 and WRU)      Calebasses dam projects were dropped due
             of the La Nicoliere reservoir in
                                                               to shift in sector priorities in accordance
             the North; and
                                                               with the Water Sector Master Plan
         -   Construction of Calebasses
                                                               prepared under 2.3.1.
             dam.

                                                               Not implemented

                                                               Reason: Dropped at Borrower’s request
                                                MoREPU (in
                                                               due to shift in sector priorities: there was
   2.3.3 Reorganization of Pollution           coordination
                                                               no longer a need for this Laboratory, since
    Control Laboratory                           with WMA
                                                               similar labs were already in place in
                                                 and WRU)
                                                               Central Water Authority and Wastewater
                                                               Management Unit, and were also upgraded
                                                               by the government.

    2.3.4 Update of Study on Mauritius          MoREPU,
                                                               Completed
     Drainage System                              NDU
2.4: Wastewater
                                                MoREPU (in
2.4.1 Feasibility and detailed engineering
                                                coordination   Completed
studies for the Baie de Tombeau Sewerage
                                                 with WMA      (including the design of a pumping station)
Project Phase III
                                                 and WRU)
2.5: Energy
                                                               Incomplete

                                                               Reason: Consultant’s contract was
   2.5.1 Renewable Energy Development
                                                 MoREPU        terminated in the middle and partially paid;
    Study
                                                               the study is now planned to be completed
                                                               under the TA funded by the French
                                                               Development Agency (AFD)
                                                               Not implemented under the project
   Capacity Building support in energy
                                                 MoREPU        Reason: the Borrower made a decision not
    sector
                                                               use loan funds for training, but rather
                                                               finance it with its own resources.




                                                   28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      This annex summarizes the ex-post economic evaluation of the Project’s road
upgrading sub-component (Upgrading of B6 Belle Rive - Quartier Militaire Road), which
accounts for 67 percent of the Project’s investment. The evaluation followed the same approach
of the ex-ante economic analysis, i.e. estimating road users’ surplus using the Highway
Development and Management Model (HDM-4). Concretely, the evaluation calculated
benefits to road users (as compared to a without-project scenario) and costs of the investments
in road works, and assessed streams of a net economic benefit to a society. Based on the
analysis, the net present value (NPV), at a 10 percent discount rate, and the related internal rate
of return (IRR) of the investments over 20 years are respectively estimated as MUR 179 million
and 11.7 percent.
2.     Though the result demonstrated that the Project remains economically feasible, the
values of NPV and IRR are much smaller than those in the feasibility study. This is mainly
because of (i) increase in civil works cost by 46 percent and (ii) 27 percent lower traffic volume
in 2012 compared to the projected value at appraisal.

Project Objectives and Main Benefits

3.      The expected outcome of the proposed road works is to reduce road transport costs.
This rehabilitated section is an important link for alleviating traffic congestion and improving
road safety between highly populated areas along Motorway 2 (M2) and the eastern region.
The construction of the bypasses and the improvement of the road has led to a marked reduction
in both travel time between Wooton and Quartiers Militaire from 10 minutes to five minutes,
and reduction in fatal and serious accidents decreasing from 11 to 1.
Main Assumptions and Methodology
4.      The evaluation followed the same methodology of the ex-ante economic analysis
assessing road users’ benefits and costs of the investments. The main benefits stemming from
the investments on the road upgrading are the savings for road users on vehicle operating costs
and passenger/freight time. Additional benefits, which have not been quantified, include the
reduction of accidents (which will lead to the reduction of economic loss of deaths and injuries
as well as vehicle damages), reduction of vehicle emissions such as GHG, and the improvement
of driving and riding comfort. The costs to the road agency are the works costs. The benefits
and costs of the works are estimated using the Highway Development and Management Model
Version 4 (HDM-4), which can simulate pavement deterioration over time, vehicle operation
conditions and costs for multiple road design and maintenance alternatives.
Road Section and Traffic Volume
5.      The section of the study is the Quartier Militaire Road (B6) from Belle Rive to Quartier
Militaire with the original length of 9.3 km. The Project included the construction of the two
new bypasses over a total distance of 4.5 km, which extended the section length to 12 km after
the works.
6.     The traffic volumes (Average Annual Daily Traffic) and the annual traffic growth rate
are exhibited in the following table. The base year of the traffic data is 2012 when the RDA
conducted the nation-wide traffic counting survey. The volume of each vehicle type and traffic




                                                29
growth rates are based on the assumption used for the study on asset management strategy3.
The study assumes that 50 percent of the traffic go through the newly constructed bypass and
the rest 50 percent uses the existing routes.

               Table 3.1: Traffic Volumes in 2012 and Traffic Growth Rate
                                                                Pickup/                   Multi-axle
    Item                                             Car                  Bus    Truck                   Total
                                                                  Van                      Truck
                                             4
    Traffic volume in the base year (2012)       .   6,322       1,851    661     500         141        9,476

    Annual traffic growth rate
     2011-2015                                       5.1%        5.1%     5.1%   2.0%        2.0%
     2016-2025                                       4.0%        4.0%     4.0%   2.0%        2.0%
     2026-2035                                       3.0%        3.0%     3.0%   2.0%        2.0%



Methodology on Estimating Economic Benefits
7.      The economic benefits of road rehabilitation and upgrading works are twofold: (i)
reduction in vehicle operating costs and (ii) saving in travel time. The project contributes to
increase traffic speed as well as to improve riding comfort. Accordingly, the economic benefits
from the works are induced from the reduction of the following transport costs: (i) vehicle
operating costs, mainly, reduction in consumption of fuels and reduction of damage to vehicles’
bodies and parts due to vibration during drive, and (ii) reduction in travel time of passengers
and freights, which is converted into monetary terms and added as economic benefits.
8.     In the simulation model of the HDM4, these benefits are calculated as the difference in
transport costs between a with-project scenario (alternative case) and a without-project scenario
(base case). These two scenarios include the following works.
With-project Scenario
9.      With the project, the following rehabilitation and maintenance activities are assumed
in the model:
      a. Rehabilitation in Year 1 and 2 (2012-2013): The pavement rehabilitation and
         construction of the new bypass are executed. The new bypass will extend the road
         length from 9.3km to 12km. The evolution of the International Roughness Index (IRI),
         once works have been executed, has been simulated by the model.
      b. Yearly routine maintenance: Road maintenance activities, conducted on a yearly basis
         include: roadside cleaning, maintenance of road facilities, and normal road patrol.
         Routine maintenance costs are assumed at the same level for all road types. Along with
         the maintenance, a regular patching will be carried out if the pavement surface is
         damaged before reaching the roughness threshold of the future rehabilitation.




3
  Republic of Mauritius / World Bank, Design of an Asset Management Strategy and Preparation of Output and
Performance Based Maintenance Contracts for the Road Development Authority In Mauritius: Phase I, Asset
Management Strategy, March 2013
4
  Since the traffic volumes were counted at the two locations on the project section, the average values were
adopted for this evaluation.

                                                           30
Without-project or Base Scenario
10.     In the base scenario, the upgrading works in Year 1 and 2 are not executed and only
yearly routine maintenance will be implemented over the entire study period. The maintenance
will have the same type of interventions and costs as the with-project scenario.


Road Works and Pavement Conditions
11.      The road works consisted of the rehabilitation and improvement of 7.5 km of existing
road from Belle Rive to Quartier Militaire and the construction of the two new bypasses with
a total length of 4.5 km. The following table provides the major parameters of road conditions
in the section before and after the works, which are largely based on the feasibility study done
by the RDA.
                           Table: Parameters for Road Conditions
                                                   Before Works                 After Works
         Environment
         · Rainfall [m/ month]                                          0.282                        0.282
         · Altitude [m]                                                   520                          520

         Geometry
         · Raise and Fall [m/km]                                        12.00                        12.00
         · Horizontal curvature [deg/km]                                   15                           15
         · Road width [m]                                                 6.9                          7.4
         · Superelevation [%]                                             2.5                          2.5
         · Shoulder Width [m]                                             0.5                          1.5

         Surface
         · Surface type :                          Asphaltic concrete           Asphaltic concrete
         · Number of surfacing layers                                      2                            2
         · Thickness of surfacing layers [mm]                             50                           50

         Base/Subgrade
         · Base type : granular                    Granular                     Bituminous
         · Subgrade California Bearing Ratio                               5                            6
         · Thickness of base layers [mm]                                 480                          480

         Strength Parameters
         · Benkelman Beam Deflection                                     1.26                          0.4

         Condition
         · Area of cracks [%]                                             20                             0
         · Area ravelled [%]                                               0                             0
         · Area of potholes [%]                                           10                             0
         · Mean rut depth [mm]                                            35                             0
         · Standard deviation of rut depth [mm]                            4                             0
         · Roughness [IRI]                                                 7                           2.5
         · Free Flow Speed [km/h]                                         50                          100

         History
         · Preventive treatment age [years]                                5    -
         · Surfacing age [years]                                           5    -
         · Construction age [years]                                       15    -



Road Work Costs
12.     Upgrading and rehabilitation work: The economic costs of road upgrading works were
MUR 847 million excluding taxes in the 2008 price. The actual payments for the road works
were MUR 1,084 million including tax in total. The economic costs were obtained by excluding
the tax of 13 percent. To make the results comparable to the values at the feasibility study, the
economic costs were converted into the 2008 price using the Construction Price Index by the

                                                  31
Statistics Mauritius (Statistics department) and assuming a half of the payments made in 2012
and the remaining in 2013.
13.     Maintenance works: the costs of routine maintenance works follow the value in the
feasibility study: MUR 725,000 per km per year.


Vehicle Operating Costs
14.     Five types of vehicles were studied in this evaluation: (i) car, (ii) pickup, (iii) bus, (iii)
medium truck, and (iv) multi-axle truck. The following table presents typical road user unit
costs by each type of vehicles. The parameters are based on the feasibility study of the project.
The costs are presented in the 2008 price excluding tax.


                           Table: Parameters for Vehicle Operating Costs
                                                                                                     Multi-axle
 Vehicle Characteristics                         Car         Pickup
                                                                            Bus          Truck        Truck
 Number of axles                                   2            2            2             2             3
 Number of wheels                                  4            4            6             6            10
 Average Operating Weight (ton)                   1.2          3.5          10.0          12.0         22.0
 Economic Costs in 2008 price
 New Vehicle Cost (MUR)                         350,000      375,000     1,600,000      640,000          1,380,000
 New Tire Cost (MUR)                             1,300        1,000        1,600         1,600             3,100
 Crew wage (MUR/hour)                              -           25            70           70                 70
 Time Costs for Working Passenger (MUR/hour)      50           50            50           50                 50
 Time Costs for Non-Working Passenger
                                                  25           20           20            20                20
 (MUR/hour)
 Cargo Delay Cost per Vehicle Hour Delay
 (MUR/hour)
 Labor cost of maintenance (MUR/hour)            150          150           150           150              150
 Interest Rate (%)                               10%          10%           10%           10%              10%
 Gasoline (MUR/Litter)                            40           40            40            40               40
 Diesel (MUR/Litter)                              40           40            40            40               40
 Lubrication Oil (MUR/Litter)                     60           60            60            60               60
 Vehicle Use
 Annual Driven (km/year)                        15,000       20,000        45,000        25,000           20,000
 Hours Annual Driven                             750          2,400         3,000         2,400            2,000
 Service Life                                     10           10             7            10               10
 Number of Passengers (including driver)         3.0           3.0           45            3.0              3.0



Results
15.     The result demonstrated that the Project remains economically feasible. Based on the
above methodology and parameters, the total economic costs of road works and vehicle
operations are estimated for both scenarios during the period of 2012-2031, and the economic
benefits are calculated as a saving of the costs. As a result, the present values of the flow of net
economic benefits (NPV) generated by the Project over 20 years are estimated at MUR 178
million at a 10 percent discount rate, and its economic internal rate of return (IRI) is estimated
at 11.7 percent.
16.     However, the values of both NPV and IRI are very low compared to those estimated by
the feasibility study. The one reason for this is a significant increase in the civil work costs.
While the original estimation at the feasibility study was MUR 644 million (excluding tax), the
                                                 32
actual costs was MUR 943 million (excluding tax) or 46 percent higher. Even after inflation
adjustments, the costs are MUR 847 million, which is still 32 percent above the original value.
17.      The other factor is that the actual traffic growth was much lower than the projection. At
appraisal, the traffic volume on the B6 road was predicted at 12,067 vehicle/day in 2012, but
in fact, the traffic counting survey in 2012 found only 9,476 vehicle/day or 27 percent lower
than the estimated value.
18.       Furthermore, the ex-ante economic evaluation did not take into consideration the fact
that the bypass would extend the road length after the works. The road length was extended by
30 percent after the conclusion of the new bypasses (from 9.3 km to 12 km), which
proportionally increased road user costs and reduced the net benefits of the Project. Since the
ex-post evaluation assumes this adverse impact, the results became relatively low compared to
the ex-ante study.




                                               33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                               Title               Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Pierre Graftieaux             Program Leader                      EACNF Task Team Leader
                                                                        Environmental and
Noreen Beg                    Senior Environmental Specialist     GENDR
                                                                        Social Safeguards
                                                                        Lead Infrastructure
Abdelmoula M. Ghzala          Consultant                          GEEDR
                                                                        Specialist
                                                                        Program
Alain Labeau                  Consultant                          GTIDR
                                                                        Coordinator
Farida Khan                   Operations Analyst                  GTIDR Operations
                                                                        Lead Transport
Jorge M. Rebelo               Consultant                          GTIDR
                                                                        Specialist
Lisa Lui                      Lead Counsel                        LEGLE Legal
Lova Niaina Ravaoarimino      Senior Procurement Specialist       GGODR Procurement
Ntombie Z. Siwale             Senior Program Assistant            GTIDR Team Assistant
Sylvain Auguste Rambeloson    Senior Procurement Specialist       GGODR Procurement
                                                                        Infrastructure
Vickram Cuttaree              Senior Infrastructure Economist     GTIDR
                                                                        Economist
Supervision/ICR
Landy Franck Andrianjatovo    Driver                              AFMMG Driver
Felly Akiiki Kaboyo           Operations Analyst                  GPSOS Operations
Khoudijah Bibi Maudarbocus-   Private Sector Development                Private Sector
                                                                  GTCDR
Boodoo                        Specialist                                Development
Mariella Beugue               Program Assistant                   AFMMU Team Assistant
                                                                        Environmental and
Noreen Beg                    Senior Environmental Specialist     GENDR
                                                                        Social Safeguards
                              Natural Resource Management               Environmental
Svetlana Khvostova                                                GENDR
                              Specialist                                Safeguards
Patrick Kabuya                                                    GGODR Financial
                              Senior Financial Management Spec.
                                                                        Management
Patrice Joachim Nirina
                              Senior Municipal Engineer           GSURR Engineer
Rakotoniaina
Pierre Graftieaux             Program Leader                      EACNF   Task Team Leader
Reynold Duncan                Operations Adviser                  SACPK   Operations
Richard Martin Humphreys      Lead Transport Economist            GTIDR   Task Team Leader
Sevara Melibaeva              Transport Economist                 GTIDR   ICR Author
Sylvain Auguste Rambeloson    Senior Procurement Specialist       GGODR   Procurement
Lova Niaina Ravaoarimino      Procurement Specialist              GGODR   Procurement
Damon C. Luciano              Temporary                           GTIDR   Team Assistant




                                                34
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                    3.9                          49.50
  FY06                                   15.85                        103.56
  FY07                                   12.01                         93.19
  FY08                                   12.21                         68.22
                          Total:                                      314.47
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                   29.93                    131,185.34
  FY10                                   12.19                     67,923.66
  FY11                                   14.74                     84,634.02
  FY12                                   14.44                     94,492.06
  FY13                                   11.18                     75,784.35
  FY14                                    8.82                     53,772.49
  FY15                                   12.34                     72,543.56
                          Total:        103.64                    588,335.50




                                       35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                     37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

 Borrowers’ Contribution to Implementation Completion Report
                     (RDA's Submission)
The support of the World Bank was enlisted by the Government of Mauritius through a
sector Investment and Maintenance Loan in an amount of USD 50 million from IBRD
resources. The specific objective was to allow the GoM to improve the national
infrastructure with emphasis on the transport, energy and water sectors.

The aim of the project was to contribute to:

   (i)     improve the condition of the road network through road upgrading, periodic
           maintenance and pilot performance-based routine maintenance contracts,

   (ii)    prepare investments in the urban transport sector to alleviate congestion between
           Curepipe and Port-Louis and in the road sector to keep upgrading the existing
           network,

   (iii)   help the government in defining a ten-year Public Sector Investment Program,

   (iv)    assist in establishing a framework for economically viable clean energy
           development, and thereby increase the proportion of renewable energy in the energy
           mix,

   (v)     identify and prepare key investments in the water and wastewater sectors so as to
           increase water production in a sustainable way and to augment the connection to
           public sewerage networks from 25 percent of households as of now to 50 percent
           by 2012, and

   (vi)    provide technical assistance and training to the line Ministries and agencies.

The present report deals with the transport related components of the Mauritius Infrastructure
Project more specifically roads.

The components are detailed below:

Component 1:

 1. Upgrading of Belle Rive - Quartier Militaire Road (USD22.7 out of which USD1.1
    million has been financed by the Borrower to acquire the land needed for the
    widening of the road right-of-way) a 5.5 to 6.5 metre wide road, the main link between
    the East and the West of Mauritius, to be fully or partially rehabilitated and widened to up
    to 7.5 metres under the proposed project, to alleviate congestion and above all to improve
    road safety on the axis, largely used by trucks and buses. Works include slight
    modifications to the alignment to smoothen the sharpest curves, the construction of
    bypasses to Valetta and Quartier Militaire villages and the widening of culverts in areas
    that get partially flooded during heavy rains.


                                               38
The achievement of the Project’s development objective would be assessed through the
following key indicators:
        travel times (minutes) and
        number of accidents per year on Quartier Militaire Road.

    2. Periodic Maintenance (USD10.4 million) for three highway sections, which had not
       been treated since their construction in the late 70’s and the pavement of which presented
       clear signs of fatigue:

               Terre Rouge – Quay D on M2 (5 km of dual carriageway),
               Nouvelle France – La Vigie on M1 (8 km of single carriageway) and
               Parts of Pamplemousses-Grand Baie on A13 (4 km of single carriageway).

    3. Performance-based routine maintenance contracts (USD3 million) for the three
       highway sections mentioned above and another road, possibly B20 (Old Flacq Road) to
       test the concept on lower-volume roads. The objective of this sub-component is to
       determine whether performance-based contracts, once adapted to the local context, are the
       right means to overcome a backlog of deferred maintenance on key sections of Mauritius
       primary network.

Component 2
2.2: Transport sector (USD5.175 million):

       2.2.4 Supervision and Monitoring of the Quartier Militaire Road upgrading works
      contract (USD425,000): Supervision of such works will not be done in-house by the Road
      Development Authority but by a consulting firm to be contracted under the loan.

     2.2.5 Other transport studies, both in the urban transport and road transport sub-sectors
      (USD2,300,000)

              (v) analysis of tolling options for road projects such as the Port-Louis by-pass.
              (vi) technical assistance for the setting up and purchase of a Road Management
                    System
              (vii) consulting services for the design and evaluation of Performance-Based
                    Contracts, etc.

                           2.2.6 Feasibility, Detailed Design, EIAs, Tender Documents and
      whenever needed, Resettlement Action Plans (USD1,150,000) for:
      (i) roads such as, but not necessarily limited to, Old Flacq Road (from its junction with A2
      at Khoyratty through d’Epinay and Camp Créole to its junction with A2 at Grande Rosalie),
      a 6-km road segment / Terre Rouge – Triolet – Grand Baie Road (14 km from its junction
      with M2 at Terre Rouge through Saint Joseph, Arsenal, Solitude, Triolet, Chemin Vingt
      Pieds to its junction with B13 at Grand Baie) / Pailles Branch Road (2.4 km from its
      junction with M1 at Grewals Underpass through Pailles to its junction with A1 at Grand
      River North West / B6 to assess the need (and optimal timing) for a dual carriageway, (ii)
      round-about replacement projects, road extension program, pavement projects, and (iii)
      Rodrigues airport (construction of a new runway of 2,100m).


                                                 39
The following table lists all road projects which have been undertaken under the MIP
giving all relevant details in summarised form. This is followed by details on each project:




                                            40
Reference Number                 1                   2.1                    2.2                     2.3              3                    CS6             CS6                   CS8                    CS8

                          B6 Upgrading       M2 Rehabilitation       M1 Rehabilitation A13 Rehabilitation            PBC                  RMS              PBC              EWC (Study)             Pedestrian
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Underpass
Date of no objection:            06-Apr-11               29-Jul-10               10-Jan-11              25-Jan-11                            09-Aug-09                             22-Mar-11             08-Jul-11

Date of award of                 11-Apr-11           02-Aug-10                   11-Jan-11              04-Feb-11                            11-Aug-09                             25-Mar-11              12-Jul-11
contract:
Contract amount: MUR        805,829,830.10      103,591,660.00           145,965,047.00           73,767,116.30                         11,138,100.00 *                       11,061,701.60 *         6,910,000.00

Local Taxes (VAT)           120,874,474.52       15,538,749.00            21,894,757.05           11,065,067.45            0.00                    0.00          0.00          1,659,255.24           1,036,500.00

Sub Total with taxes:       926,704,304.62      119,130,409.00           167,859,804.05           84,832,183.75            0.00         11,138,100.00            0.00         12,720,956.84           7,946,500.00

Variations :                165,864,708.25                   0.00         37,205,124.65                      0.00          0.00          2,662,350.00            0.00                   0.00                  0.00

Revised Amount: MUR       1,092,569,012.87      119,130,409.00           205,064,928.70           84,832,183.75            0.00         13,800,450.00            0.00         12,720,956.84           7,946,500.00

Equivalent in USD:           33,617,508.09        3,665,551.05             6,309,690.11            2,610,221.04            0.00              424,629.23          0.00           391,414.06              244,507.69
(Rs 32.5/USD)
Final Payment: MUR        1,083,595,395.12      119,127,254.29           202,723,650.74           70,844,459.67                         13,450,603.52                         12,720,956.84           3,501,750.00

Equivalent in USD:           33,341,396.77        3,665,453.98             6,237,650.79            2,179,829.53            0.00              413,864.72          0.00           391,414.06              107,746.15
(Rs 32.5/USD)
Initial Amount in MIP        21,600,000.00        4,640,000.00             3,330,000.00            2,430,000.00     3,000,000.00         2,300,000.00     1,150,000.00
(USD):
Consultant:             Road Development Road Development Road Development Road Development                                        TRL in association                    Frischmann Prabhu      Messrs Arup Sigma
                            Authority    Authority        Authority        Authority                                               with Roughton                         (India) Pvt Ltd.       Ltd in association
                                                                                                                                   International                                                with Architects
                                                                                                                                                                                                Studio Ltd
Contractor:             SinoHydro            Gamma                   COLAS(Maurice)          General
                        Corporation                                  ltee                    Construction Co
                        Limited                                                              Ltd
Address:                No 22,               Chapman Hill            Richelieu Branch        PO Box 503                            Crawthorne House                      315, Balgovind         19 Church Street,
                        Chegongzhuang        Coromandel              Road                    Plaine Lauzun                         Nine Mile Ride                        Wadi,                  Port Louis,
                        West Road            Mauritius               Petite Riviere          Port Louis                            Wokingham                             New Prabhadevi         Mauritius
                        Haidian District                             Mauritius               Mauritius                             Berkshire RG 40                       Road, Prabhadevi,
                        Beijing 100048                                                                                             3GA                                   Mumbai 400 025,
                        China                                                                                                      United Kingdom                        India
Duration:               18 months            10 months               10 months               6 months                              240 calendar days                     8 months               4 months excluding
                                                                                                                                                                                                Supervision
Date of Completion:     25-Oct-13            18-Aug-11               26-Jul-11               15-Oct-11                             Dec -10                               Mar -12                Oct -12




                                                                                                            41
Status:                  In defects liability   Project completed   Project completed   Project completed.   Assignment          Final Feasibility   Final Feasibility
                         period. Snags                                                                       completed and       Report submitted    Report submitted
                         completed.                                                                          Reports submitted
                                                                                                             by Consultant as
                                                                                                             per contract.
*Foreign currency converted to MUR                                                                                                                         20 Oct 2014




                                                                                                     42
1. Upgrading of Quartier Militaire Road (B6)-Phase II from Belle Rive
   to Quartier Militaire
-   The works contract was signed on the 6th June 2011 between the Road Development
    Authority and Sinohydro Corporation Limited from the People Republic of China for
    a contract amount of Rs 926,704,304.61 inclusive VAT.

-   The work consists of the rehabilitation and improvement of 7.5 kms of existing road
    from Belle Rive to Quartier Militaire and construction of two new bypasses over a total
    distance of 4.5 kms.

-   The order to start work was issued on the 18th August 2011 and the contractual
    completion date was on the 7th February 2013. (540 calendar days).

The contract period was extended due to delays and additional works such as:

Delays

-   Land Acquisition issues.
-   Delay in obtaining approval from authorities such as Forestry Department, Central
    Electricity Board, etc.

-   Unforeseen site conditions (Muddy section along Valetta Bypass).
-   Adverse climatic conditions (torrential Rain/Cyclones).

Additional Works

-   Revised scope of work for street lighting.
-   Realignment of L’Esperance Road (B51).
-   Demolition and reconstruction of blockwall in villages (Quartier Militaire and Valetta).
-   Provision of footpath and green space on Valetta lake.

The works were substantially completed on 25th October 2013 with an extension of time
of 260 days.

The Final contract amount including price adjustment and cost associated with additional
works and delays is Rs1,092,40.334.74 inclusive of VAT.

Key Indicators:

    (i)    The average travel time during peak hours from Wooton to Quartier Militaire
           has been cut by half, from 10 to 5 minutes. The average travel speed is now 80
           km/h compared to 42 Km/h previously.
                                            43
    (ii)   The number of accidents per year has decreased as follows:

                                        2005-2010                  2010-2014 ( to date)
             Slight                     85                         8
             Serious                    11                         1
             Fatal                      8                          0

            The last column includes the contract period.



2. Terre Rouge – Quay D on M2
-   The works contract was awarded on the 02nd August 2010 to Gamma for a contract
    amount of Rs 119,130,409 inclusive VAT.

-   The works consisted of the upgrading of the Motorway M2 from Terre Rouge
    Roundabout to Quay D Round About over about 4.0 Km. The main objective of the
    project was to increase the structural stability of the road deteriorated with the growth
    of traffic and to maintain its level of service as well as increase its riding quality and
    enhance safety of road users. Therefore the works included pavement repair,
    bituminous overlay, upgrading of roundabouts, traffic islands and footpaths, cleaning
    of drains and miscellaneous works.

-   The order to start work was issued on 21st August 2010 and the contractual completion
    date was on the 2nd June 2011.

The contract period was extended due to delays and additional works such as:

Delays and Additional Works

-   Provision of additional guardrails and openings in the central reservations requested by
    the Police and the Traffic Management and Road Safety Unit. This called for additional
    time for ordering and placing of guardrails.

The works were substantially completed on 18th August 2011.

The final contract amount including cost associated with additional works is
Rs 119,127,254.29 inclusive of VAT.


3. Nouvelle France – La Vigie on M1
-   The works contract was awarded on the 17th March 2011 to Colas (Maurice) Ltee for
    a contract amount of Rs 167,859,804.05 inclusive VAT.

                                             44
-   The works consisted of the upgrading of the Motorway M1 from Nouvelle France
    Roundabout to La Vigie Round About over about 8.2 Km. The Northbound
    carriageway of Motorway M1 from Nouvelle France Roundabout to La Vigie
    Roundabout was in a very poor state. The carriageway was subjected to several types
    of failures like pot holes, cracks, localized depressions and settlements. These defects
    were mostly developed due to inadequate surface drainage system all along the
    carriageway. Rehabilitation of that part of carriageway was urgently needed to prevent
    further deterioration of the road surface. Therefore the works included pavement repair,
    bituminous overlay, reinstatement of the hard shoulders, construction of new lined
    drains and miscellaneous works.

-   The order to start work was issued on 21st March 2011 and the contractual completion
    date was on the 14th January 2012.

Delays

-   No delays were encountered. In fact the project was completed much earlier than
    scheduled. This was due to the following reasons:

    -    To avoid inconveniences to road users, most of the works were executed on a 24
         hour basis during weekdays.

    -    The stone masonry drain was replaced by slip form concrete drain and

    -    The cut and patch and soft spot repairs by an alternative technique of milling.

Additional Works

-   During implementation of the project, cores were taken from existing slow lane and
    they showed a defect of bonding between the corresponding existing bituminous
    concrete layers thereby causing the upper layer to become loose and eventually crack.
    These cracks could be seen all along the slow lane and along part of the fast lane. The
    deflection test carried out on the existing asphalt layer showed a rather good result
    concluding that the base was in good condition. The most economical, suitable and
    rapid engineering solution was to carry out cut and patch over the full length of the
    Slow Lane and along part of the Fast Lane.
-   The quantities for the item Cut and Patch and Soft Spot repairs have therefore been
    increased to around 29,000 m2 that consequently increased the contract amount. The
    contractor proposed to carry out the repairs works using the milling technique to
    complete the work within one month.
-   This caused an increase to the contract sum from Rs 167,859,804.05 (VAT Incl.) to
    Rs 205,064,928.70 (VAT Incl.).

The works were substantially completed on 26th July 2011 earlier than contractual
completion date.

                                              45
The final contract amount including cost associated with additional works is
Rs 202,723,650.74 inclusive of VAT.


4. Parts of Pamplemousses-Grand Baie on A13
-   The works contract was awarded on the 4th February 2011 to General Construction
    Co Ltd for a contract amount of Rs 84,832,183.75 inclusive VAT.

-   The works consisted of the upgrading of Pamplemousses – Grand Baie Road A(13)
    from Pamplemousses Roundabout to Mapou Roundabout over 3.8 Km. The main
    objective of the project was to increase the structural stability of the road deteriorated
    with the growth of traffic and to maintain its level of service as well as increase its
    riding quality and enhance safety of road users. Therefore the works included pavement
    repair, bituminous overlay, rehabilitation of roundabouts and traffic islands, repair of
    masonry and earth drains and miscellaneous works.

-   The order to start work was issued on 18th April 2010 and the contractual completion
    date was on the 15th October 2011.

The works were completed on time although there were some disruptions due to inclement
weather and milling deeper than expected.

Delays and Additional Works

Further to road safety concerns, given that the A13 in the meantime was converted into a
dual carriageway, it was decided to construct a footbridge at Mapou. An additional work
was thus entrusted to the Contractor. However, the project was completed within the
contractual completion date and without additional cost.

The works were substantially completed on 15th October 2011.

The final contract amount including cost associated with additional works is
Rs 70,844,459.67 inclusive of VAT.


5. Performance-based routine maintenance contract
The Performance Based Contract was scheduled to be amongst the last components to be
implemented under the MIP. However, given that in the meantime, the expenditure for
works under the B6 Contract was likely to exceed the allocated funding, it was considered
that it would be wiser to reallocate funds from other projects which were not yet
implemented and defer the PBC for eventual implementation under another infrastructure
project to be funded by World Bank.



                                             46
6. Projects under Component 2

Of the road related projects to be implemented under component 2, only three projects have
been carried out.

   i)      Supervision and Monitoring of the Quartier Militaire Road upgrading works
           has been done in-house by the Road Development Authority.

   ii)     Regarding analysis of tolling options for road projects such as the Port-Louis
           by-pass, it was considered that since tolling options were already being studied
           and considered in the PPP Road Decongestion Program, commissioning
           another study would be pointless and therefore the proposed study was dropped.

   iii)    As for technical assistance for the setting up and purchase of a Road
           Management System, the project was launched before signature of the loan
           agreement and funding was done through retro financing. The required
           approvals of the Bank were sought and obtained during the procurement
           process.

   iv)     On 11th August 2009, a contract was awarded to Messrs TRL Ltd in association
           with Roughton International for the amount of GBP 206,600 and MUR 808,100
           for setting up a Road and Bridge Management System for the RDA. In
           November 2009, two variations were approved as follows:
           1) the acquisition, calibration and installation of ROMDAS system through
               TRL for an amount of GBP 19,980 and MUR 44,500.
           2) the Pavement Deflection Surveys using Falling Weight Deflectometer to be
               carried out by TRL Ltd for an amount of GBP 22,991,82 and MUR 88,900.
           The project was completed in December 2010 with the final version of the RDM
           – Road Data Manager and all manuals, although the RDA was entrusted the
           responsibility to complete data survey and entry.

   v)      Consulting services for the design and evaluation of Performance-Based
           Contracts, was not carried out for reasons stated under 5 above..

   vi)     Under Feasibility, Detailed Design, EIAs, Tender Documents and whenever
           needed, Resettlement Action Plans component, only two projects have been
           carried out.

           As congestion specially of the Curepipe Port Louis corridor was of particular
           concern to Government, the other upgrading and rehabilitation projects which
           were identified during appraisal stage were ignored and due consideration was
           given to the feasibility study of the East West Connector which was a new
           project included in the Road Decongestion Program approved by Government.
           as well as a Pedestrian Underpass at the entrance of Port Louis.



                                            47
           Contract for the Feasibility Study of the East West Connector was awarded on
           25th March 2011 to Frischmann Prabhu (India) Pvt Ltd for US Dollars
           189,237.50 and MUR 5,428,000.00. The final Feasibility Report was submitted
           in March 2012.

           Contract for the Consultancy Services for the Design and Supervision of a
           Pedestrian Underpass at Places d’Armes was awarded to Messrs Arup Sigma
           Ltd in association with Architects Studio Ltd. for the sum of MUR 7,946,500
           on 12th July 2011. The final Feasibility Report was submitted in October 2012.
           As the underpasses were not economically justifiable, the assignment was
           terminated at feasibility stage.


7. Loan Implementation
Responsibility for loan implementation was assigned to the Ministry of Public
Infrastructure, NDU, Land Transport and Shipping.

Policy guidance and overall project oversight was entrusted a Project Plan Committee
(PPC) established within MoPILTS and chaired by MoPILTS with representatives from
the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED), Ministry of Renewable
Energy and Public Utilities (MoREPU), the Ministry of Environment and National
Development Unit, the Road Development Authority and any other Borrower agency that
will be involved in major aspects of the project.

The role of the PPC was to: (i) provide strategic guidance and oversight of the preparation
and implementation of the PSIP undertaken by the government under this Project, (ii)
approve annual work programs and budgets; (iii) review progress reports prepared by the
sector Ministries/agencies, clearing and forwarding periodic reports to IBRD; (iv)
proactively address any major problems affecting Project implementation; and (v) review
key reports including the audit, mid-term review and implementation completion reports.

The overall coordination and implementation of the project was to be provided by PPC.
including the following: (i) preparation/consolidation of the work programs and budgets;
(ii) preparation and production of consolidated annual financial statements and quarterly
Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) in close collaboration with MoFED and the Treasury
Department; (iv) monitoring and evaluation of the various activities supported under the
project. The Treasury Department would be in charge of cash management and
replenishment applications for the Designated Account.

The RDA would be fully in charge of the technical aspects and responsible for contracting,
maintaining records and accounts for all transactions related to them, and preparing
financial and other basic information on project management/monitoring as required.

It was also agreed that procurement aspects of the proposed project would be under the
responsibility of RDA for road components.


                                            48
The above arrangements were not quite successful and it took some time to clear aspects
of loan management.

On the procurement side, the process was facilitated by the close collaboration extended
by the World Bank Staff who responded effectively when solicited.

On the financial management side, there were teething problems but as soon as all
stakeholders coordinated their efforts and set down clear demarcation of responsibilities as
given below, the situation improved.

For road projects executed by the RDA but financed through Government Loans contracted
from external funding agencies namely International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), the terms and conditions of the Loans for these road projects as well
as the project scope/components are negotiated and finalised by the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Development (MOFED)

The loans are contracted by the Government and MOFED is responsible to sign the loan
agreements while the RDA is the implementing agency.

In order to ensure effective utilisation of funds, the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (MOFED) decided that the Accountant General would be responsible for
overall loan management and oversight in relation to foreign funded projects (as per
Circular No 13 of 2012 dated 17 September 2012 from MOFED) However, the RDA will
continue to be fully responsible and accountable for the day to day management of the
projects.

Funds for these projects are allocated to the RDA as a Capital Grant through the Programme
Based Budget (PBB) under the Programme 323 ‘Construction and Maintenance of Roads
and Bridges’.

The RDA is responsible to effect all payments to the contractors, design and operate
adequate controls, keep proper accounting records, prepare and submit all necessary
Financial Reports namely:

   a) Applications for Loan Disbursements as and when payments are made to
      contractors to the Project Plan Committee
   b) Disbursement Schedules on a quarterly basis
   c) Physical Progress Reports on a quarterly basis
   d) Interim Financial Reports on a quarterly basis
   e) Annual Financial Statements on an annual basis


The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED) is responsible to:

   a) negotiate and finalise the terms and conditions of funding as well as project
      scope/components;

                                            49
   b) sign loan agreements after vetting by the Attorney General’s Office ;
   c) follow up with stakeholders to ensure that the loan becomes effective;
   d) ensure that conditionalities agreed between the funding agency and the
      Implementing Agency are complied with; and
   e) table a copy of each signed loan agreement at the National Assembly, and send
      copies to the Accountant General, Bank of Mauritius and to the Implementing
      Agency.

The Accountant General is responsible to:

   a) prepare and submit withdrawal applications to Funding Agencies and follow up on
      disbursements;
   b) maintain Special Bank Accounts (where applicable) in respect of Project
      Loans/Grants and, where applicable, make timely transfers to the General Account;
   c) apply for reimbursements of funds after examination of expenses incurred by
      implementing agencies (in respect of expenditure pre-financed from budget) and
      credit the appropriate government revenue item;
   d) ensure that relevant Chart of Accounts (COA) codes are created in the Treasury
      Accounting System (TAS) to capture transaction data on Project Loans/Grants;
   e) determine the most appropriate method of payment to suppliers /contractors/service
      providers to reduce transaction costs;
   f) ensure that implementing agencies submit monthly returns of expenditure incurred
      on Project Loans/Grants duly reconciled with related TAS reports; and
   g) follow up with implementing agencies on discrepancies between returns and TAS
      records relating to Project Loan/Grant expenditure.

The Accountant General is also responsible to:

   a) prepare and submit to the Director of Audit annual financial statements or such
      other statements as may be required by Funding Agencies for audit purposes;
   b) seek explanation from implementing agencies in respect of queries raised by
      auditors for onward submission to the Director of Audit; and
   c) submit to Funding Agencies the audited financial statements within the prescribed
      time frame.

The RDA is responsible to:

   a) After clearance of proposed intervention by MOFED, discuss and finalise project
      details, including possible legal, policy and institutional reforms as well as
      conditionalities with development partners with support from MOFED;
   b) submit to the Accountant General such information and certified documents as the
      latter may require for the preparation of withdrawal applications or financial
      statements;
   c) ensure that necessary provisions have been made in the budget in respect of
      expenditure financed by such loans/grants;



                                            50
d) comply with terms and conditions of the loan/grant agreement and conditionalities
   agreed with the funding agency and any instructions by MOFED for the
   implementation of the project/activity (e.g. procurement procedures for goods and
   services);
e) ensure the day to day management of projects/activities funded by development
   partners and keep appropriate records;
f) submit all necessary returns, documents and other information to the Accountant
   General (Application for disbursements, Interim Financial Reports, Progress
   Reports, Disbursement Schedules) within the timeframe specified by the latter;
g) ensure that budget provided and allocated to any project/category of expenditure is
   not exceeded;
h) reconcile expenditure incurred with TAS records and submit returns to the
   Accountant General in such formats as may be required by the latter;
i) Prepare annual Financial Statements in respect of the Projects in line with
   applicable accounting framework within time frame.
j) ensure that proper accounting/recording systems and internal controls are in place
   to support operations; and
k) attend and reply to any audit queries.




                                       51
                                                                       Target Values                                Data Collection and Reporting             STATUS
Project Outcome                  Baseline     YR1         YR2            YR3         YR4         YR5         Frequency    Data            Responsibility
Indicators                                                                                                   and Reports Collection       for Data
                                                                                                                          Instruments Collection

Disbursement ratio of annual       43%              50%         65%          80%           80%         80%    Annual       Annual          MoPILTS with
capital budgets related to        overall                                                                                  budget report   inputs from
PSIP                                                                                                                                       MoFEE

                                     0               0                                                        Annual           PSIP        MoPILTS
Number (and value) of                                                                                                        progress
projects in the infrastructure                                                                                                report
sector implemented, being
implemented, or ready for
implementation as defined in
the PSIP
                                                                                                              Annual       Road Surveys        RDA         Achieved

Travel times (minutes)               10             11          11.5            5.5        5.5         5.5
Number of accidents per year     11 (yearly
on Quartier Militaire Road.       average)
Intermediate Outcome
Indicators

Number of km upgraded as             0          0           0               7.5        7.5         7.5       Annual        RDA activity    MoPILTS         Achieved
per defined standards on                                                                                                   report          through RDA
targeted roads.

Number of km maintained as           0          0           0               17         17          17                                                      Achieved
per defined standards on
targeted roads annually

Number of Performance                0          0           4               4          4           4                                                       Not yet
Based contracts being
implemented for routine
maintenance.




                                                                                       53
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. The World Bank (2009) Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the
   Amount of US$50 million to the Republic of Mauritius for a Infrastructure Project,
   Report No: 47065-MU, July.

2. Loan Agreement between Republic of Mauritius and International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development, dated December 3, 2009, Loan Number 7734-MU.

3. The World Bank (2014) Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of
   Infrastructure Improvement Project, Loan 7734 to the Republic of Mauritius, Report
   No: RES13911, March.

4. The World Bank (2014) Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of
   Infrastructure Improvement Project, Loan 7734 to the Republic of Mauritius, Report
   No: RES16507, November.

5. Aide Memoirs for Project Preparation and Supervision missions 2008-2014.

6. Project Implementation Status Reports for 2009-2014, Project Files.




                                          55
56
