                                         Document of
                                        The World Bank


                                                                    Report No: ICR3193




                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-H2100 and TF093959)

                                            ON AN

                                     IDA GRANT H2100-TP

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4,830,950 MILLION

                         (US$7.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT AT APPROVAL)



                          AND A MULTI DONOR TRUST FUND TF093959

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 25.1 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                            DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE

                                          FOR THE

        PLANNING AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

                                         July 31, 2014




Global Governance Practice Group
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2014)

                                    Currency Unit = US Dollars
                                        1.00 SDR = US$ 1.55
                                        US$ 1.00 = 0.65 SDR
                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1 – December 31


                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AAA       Analytical and Advisory Services                       Institutional Development and Capacity
                                                       IDCBP
AAPs      Annual Action Plans (s)                                Building Plan
          Australian Customs and Border Protection     IEG       Independent Evaluation Group
ACBPS
          Service                                                International English Language Testing
                                                       IELTS
ADB       Asian Development Bank                                 System
ASYCUDA   Automated System for Customs Data            IFC       International Finance Cooperation
          Australian Agency for International                    Integrated Financial Management
AUSAID                                                 IFMIS
          Development                                            Information System
BETF      Bank Executed Trust Fund                     IMF       International Monetary Fund
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                            Instituto Nacional dan Administração
                                                       INAP
          Consultative Council on Financial                      Pública
CCFM
          Management                                             International Public Sector Accounting
                                                       IPSAS
CCT       Critical and Creative Thinking                         Standards
COA       Chart of Accounts                            ISRs      Implementation Status and Result Report
          Country Policy and Institutional             IT        Information and Technology
CPIA
          Assessment                                   KPI       Key Performance Indicator
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy                 LELI      Lorosae English Learning Institute
DBS       Data Base System                             M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
DFA       Direct Funding Agreement                     MDTF      Multi Donor Trust Fund
DFAT      Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade      MoED      Ministry of Economy and Development
DG        Director General                             MoF       Ministry of Finance
DGGS      General Directorate of Corporate Services    MoPF      Ministry of Planning and Finance
          General Directorate of Policy Analysis and   MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
DGPAR
          Research                                     NDHR      National Directorate of Human Resources
          General Directorate of Revenue and                     National Directorate for the Management of
DGRC                                                   NDMES
          Customs                                                External Support
DN        Directorate National                         NDP       National Development Plan
          Development Policy Coordination              NOL       NO Objection Letter
DPCM
          Mechanism                                    NPV/      Net Present Value/ Economic Internal Rate
DPMU      District Program Management Unit             EIRR      of Return
EU        European Union                               NZAID     New Zealand Aid
          Financial Management Information             PAD       Project Appraisal Document
FMIS
          Systems                                                Permanent Commission for Quotations and
                                                       PCQT
FY        Fiscal Year                                            Tender
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                                 Permanent Commission for the
GGP       Global Governance Practice                   PCRSAP    Recruitment and Selection Advisers and
GoTL      Government of Timor-Leste                              Professionals
HCDF      Human Capital Development Fund               PDO       Project Development Objectives
HR        Human Resources                              PDP       Professional Development Program
IBPs      Integrated Border Posts                                Public Expenditure and Financial
                                                       PEFA
          Implementation Completion and Results                  Accountability
ICR
          Report                                       PER       Public Expenditure Review
IDA       International Development Association        PF        Petroleum Fund
PFM      Public Financial Management                   SMA          Senior Management Adviser
         Public Financial Management Capacity          SOP          Standard Operating Procedures
PFMCBP
         Building Program                              SPM          Senior Program Manager
PIO      Project Implementation Officer                STAN         Sekolah Tinggi Akuntansi Negara
PIU      Project Implementation Unit                   TA           Technical Assistance
PM       Prime Minister                                TF           Trust Fund
QALP     Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio       TIN          Tax Identification Number
RETF     Recipient Executed Trust Fund                 TL           Timor-Leste
SDP      Strategic Development Plan                    TOR          Terms of Reference
SDR      Special Drawing Rights                        TTL          Task Team Leader
         Servico de Registo e Verificacao              UN           United Nations
SERVE
         Empresarial                                   UNDP         United Nations Development Program
         Support and Improvement in Governance         UNTL         Universidade de Timor-Leste
SIGMA
         and Management (SIGMA)                        USD          United States Dollars
         Standard Integrated Government Tax            WB           World Bank
SIGTAS
         Administration System




                      GGP Senior Director:         Mario Marcel Cullell
                        Country Director:          Franz Dress-Gross
                             GGP Manager:          Jim Brumby
                      Project Team Leader:         Hans Anand Beck
                         ICR Team Leader:          Hans Anand Beck
                       ICR Primary Authors         Christine Wong/Hans Anand Beck
                     DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE
        PLANNING AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM



                                                                 CONTENTS



1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................................ 1
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................................ 4
3.     Assessment of Outcomes ..................................................................................................................... 9
4.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................................... 19
5.     Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................................. 21
6.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .................................... 21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ........................................................................................................ 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................................................ 25
Annex 3: Summary PEFA scores and Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................. 38
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .......................................... 44
Annex 5: List of International and National TA funded under PFMCBP ................................................. 48
Annex 6 : Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .............................................................................. 52
Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................................. 53
Annex 8 : Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................................... 59
Annex 9 : Results Framework analysis ...................................................................................................... 60
Annex 10 : List of Supporting Documents ................................................................................................ 68
Annex 11 : MoF Organizational Structure ................................................................................................. 69

Figure 1: Timor-Leste growth and poverty reduction (WB estimates) ....................................................... 11
Figure 2: Distribution of PFMCBP budget by program component .......................................................... 38
Figure 3: Capital spending projections (US$ million) ............................................................................... 39
Figure 4: Recurrent spending projections (US$ million) ........................................................................... 39
Figure 5: Petroleum Fund in 2012 ............................................................................................................. 40
Figure 6: Evolution of domestic revenue (US$ million)............................................................................ 40
Figure 7: Non-oil fiscal deficit % non-oil GDP ......................................................................................... 40
Figure 8: Expenditure contributions to non-oil Economic Growth............................................................ 41
Figure 9: Summary PEFA scores ............................................................................................................... 43


MAP ………………………………………………………………………………………………….…. 71
                                         DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                           Planning and Financial
Country:                Timor-Leste              Project Name:             Management Capacity
                                                                           Building Program
Project ID:             P092484                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H2100,TF-93959
ICR Date:               07/23/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                      Borrower:
                                                                           TIMOR-LESTE
Original Total
                        USD 7.00M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 7.43M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 7.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: MINISTRY OF FINANCE

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: AUSAID/DFAT, EU - Commission of the European
Communities, Irish Aid, NZ-MFAT and Norway Ministry of Foreign Affairs


B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         01/31/2005    Effectiveness:             11/15/2006           11/15/2006
                                                                                      02/19/2010
Appraisal:              11/08/2005    Restructuring(s):                               05/19/2011
                                                                                      10/15/2012
Approval:               03/21/2006    Mid-term Review:                                06/04/2010
                                      Closing:                   07/10/2011           01/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings             Borrower                      Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                              Government:                 Not Applicable
                        Unsatisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                       Not Applicable
                                               Agency/Agencies:
                                                 i
Overall Bank                                            Overall Borrower
                             Moderately Satisfactory                                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                            Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                     Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                              Quality at Entry
                               Yes                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                   (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                            Quality of Supervision
                             Yes                                               None
(Yes/No):                                               (QSA):
DO rating before
                               Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                           Original                  Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                           95                        95
Sub-national government administration                                       5                         5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                      29                       29
Macroeconomic management                                                     14                       14
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                         14                       14
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement                     29                       29
Tax policy and administration                                                14                       14

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:                Mario Marcel Cullell                   Jeffrey S. Gutman
Country Director:              Franz R. Drees-Gross                   Xian Zhu
Practice Manager:              James A. Brumby                        Barbara Nunberg
Project Team Leader:           Hans Anand Beck                        M. Helen Sutch
ICR Team Leader:               Hans Anand Beck
ICR Primary Authors:           Christine Wong/Hans Beck

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Sustainably strengthened planning, budgeting, public expenditure management and revenue
administration for growth and poverty reduction, with emphasis on efficiency, effectiveness,
accountability, integrity and service culture, and transparency.


                                                       ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Capacity in the Ministry of Finance strengthened for prudent, effective and accountable planning and
management of public finances to promote growth and poverty reduction.
(for project indicators see Annex 9)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                     Actual Disbursements
 No.                               DO                                IP
          Archived                                                                        (USD millions)
   1     06/28/2007          Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory                        1.42
   2     10/20/2007          Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory                        2.17
   3     07/11/2008       Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Unsatisfactory                 3.73
   4     06/01/2009       Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                  7.23
   5     06/11/2010       Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                  7.31
   6     05/23/2011           Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                        7.31
   7     04/09/2012           Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                        7.31
   8     04/15/2013           Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                        7.40
   9     11/12/2013           Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                        7.43
  10     06/13/2014       Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                  7.43

H. Restructuring (if any)

                                   ISR Ratings at         Amount
  Restructuring   Board Approved   Restructuring       Disbursed at        Reason for Restructuring & Key
     Date(s)       PDO Change                         Restructuring in             Changes Made
                                    DO        IP       USD millions
    02/19/2010          Y            MS       MS             7.31               For details see section 1.7
    05/19/2011                       MS       MS             7.31               For details see section 1.7
    10/15/2012                       S        S              7.40               For details see section 1.7
Note: For details of combined IDA and MDTF disbursed amounts see Annex 1.

If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving body)
enter ratings below:

                                                                       Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                                       Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                             Moderately Satisfactory




                                                    iii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          iv
1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1      Context at Appraisal

At independence in 2002, the new Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste inherited the daunting task of
rebuilding a state from the ground up. Occupation and conflict left behind poorly functioning and
understaffed government institutions, and destroyed most of the basic infrastructure. Human resources
were also depleted as professionals, both in the public and private sectors, fled the country. Since then,
Timor-Leste made progress in establishing the institutions of the state and credibly emerged from a crisis
of internal violence and political upheaval in 2006/7. It created hard-won political stability and deployed
its nascent state architecture to increase tangible services for the population, fostering credibility and
confidence in government. Nevertheless, capacity remains weak and the government has identified the
strengthening of institutions as a priority area of assistance to improve service delivery and outcomes.

Timor-Leste faced a rapid expansion in petroleum sector revenues in the mid-2000s, allowing budgeted
expenditures to rise very dramatically from $89m in 2006 to $1082m in 2013. This expansion was
placing tremendous pressure on the GoTL’s weak public financial management system at a time when the
country had an acute shortage of qualified technical expertise and difficulties in recruiting the key
personnel that would form the backbone of the public finance management function.

World Bank involvement in the Planning and Financial Management Capacity Building Project
(PFMCBP) stems from the global knowledge the Bank brings to bear in public financial management, its
experience in thin capacity, post conflict environments, and its coordination capability. The Bank’s
involvement in the project was consistent with its overall assistance program as outlined in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which recognized institutional capacity development as the “the Achilles’
heel of donor assistance 1 in Timor-Leste.

The Program was designed to provide a single umbrella for all PFM capacity-building activities in the
then-existing Ministry of Planning and Finance (MoPF). Donors, including IDA, would finance the
overall Program through a pooled arrangement to avoid stand-alone and unconnected initiatives. The
pooled arrangement included a Multi Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) and the alignment of donor support
outside the MDTF with the overall Program. The PAD outlined a contingency plan for the use of IDA
Grant (SDR 4,830,950 or US$7.0 million equivalent) if donors decided not to directly finance or co-
finance the Program. In fact, PFMCBP was solely funded by an IDA Grant from 2006 to 2009. The
MDTF Grant agreement was signed on March 18, 2009, gathering commitments from Australia, the EU,
Ireland, New Zealand, and Norway.

1.2      Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

Original program development objective:

Sustainably strengthened planning, budgeting, public expenditure management and revenue
administration for growth and poverty reduction, with emphasis on efficiency, effectiveness,
accountability, integrity and service culture, and transparency.




1
    Original PAD



                                                    1
Original overall outcome indicators 2:

(i)     Annual combined sources budget, including medium term fiscal framework, reflects petroleum
        savings policy and is consistent with sustainable growth and poverty reduction; line ministry budgets
        framed by sector performance indicators;
(ii) Budget execution improved;
(iii) Revenue performance improved as indicated by audits of petroleum companies and reduced
      clearance time for customs;
(iv) Accountability, integrity and service culture strengthened;
(v) Transparency improved as indicated by publication of budgets, execution reports and audited
    accounts;
(vi) Sustainability improved as indicated by the increasing recruitment of local staff, phasing out of
     international advisors and staff performance assessments.

1.3        Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
           reasons/justification

The PDO was formally revised during implementation.

Restructuring (level one):

Rapidly growing oil revenues and government spending with low capacity, combined with a full
restructuring of the Ministry of Finance, meant a rapidly evolving environment for the program. The
Program underwent a level one restructuring in 2010 to allow greater flexibility and simplicity. The main
reasons for Program restructuring were as follows:

       •    Reorganization of the MoF: Responding to a request from the Minister of Finance to realign the
            Program with the new organizational structure of the MoF;
       •    Revision of the Results Matrix: The original Results Matrix had over 60 indicators, making it
            difficult to monitor progress. The revised Matrix set out one PDO-level indicator and six
            intermediate outcome indicators.
       •    Reduction of the scope and complexity of the Program: The restructuring focused Program
            support on the MoF and withdrew plans for direct support to line ministries, autonomous agencies
            or district entities, to consolidate results at the core central level;
       •    Refocusing of support to enhance capacity building: The original PAD set out an indicative five-
            year training plan. This was revised to a more flexible Professional Development Program (PDP)
            to provide scholarships and training courses to fit the changing needs of the MoF
       •    Strengthening program implementation and supervisor arrangements: This included a re-
            organization of the PIU and having a Dili- based TTL.

Revised program development objective after restructuring:

Capacity in the Ministry of Finance strengthened for prudent, effective and accountable planning and
management of public finances to promote growth and poverty reduction.


2
    This is a summary of the indicators. The original results matrix is attached in annex 2.



                                                                    2
Intermediate indicators of the restructured project:

(i)    State Finances: General Budget of the State is prepared in accordance with the budget timetable
       based on enhanced coordination, quality and realism of line ministry submissions, reflecting
       government priorities and medium-term fiscal sustainability;
(ii) Treasury and procurement functions are managed efficiently and transparently with due regard to
     accountability and quality of expenditure;
(iii) Revenue and Customs: Government revenue functions are administered efficiently and transparently,
      with improved revenue performance in line with economic developments and compliance;
(iv) Policy Analysis and Research: Government policies and budget decisions are better informed by
     timely economic analysis and projections based on reliable data;
(v) Corporate Services: Accountability, integrity and service culture is strengthened by improved
    performance of core corporate support functions, and enhanced sustainability of MoF operations;
(vi) Program Implementation: The Program is effectively implemented through maintenance of
     operational standards, M&E, and regular reporting on results.

1.4        Main Beneficiaries

The scope of the original project spanned ten directorates in the Ministry of Finance, five line ministries
and thirteen district agencies. The restructured project re-focused support to the Ministry of Finance and
discontinued planned direct support to line ministries, autonomous agencies or district entities since no
direct support had occurred beyond MoF at the time of restructuring.

1.5        Original Components

The original components were as follows:

a)     Public expenditure management: planning, budget formulation and budget execution; financial
       management information system.
b)     Revenue administration and macroeconomic management: tax administration and petroleum revenue
       collection; customs; macroeconomic management.
c)     Program-wide activities: professional leadership, work ethic, basic training, and performance
       assessment; accountability and transparency in public financial management.
d)     Support for improvement in governance and management: strategic, transparent and effective
       management of MoPF and its resources.
e)     Program implementation: effective implementation of the program by the administration and it
       directorate.

1.6        Revised Components

The following new and/or revised components were established in the restructured project in 2010:

      i.    Support to directorate general of state finances: director general; budget directorate; treasury
            directorate; procurement directorate; asset management directorate; expenditure review unit.
      ii. Support to directorate general of revenue and customs: director general; domestic revenue
          directorate; petroleum revenue directorate; customs directorate.



                                                       3
       iii. Support to directorate general of policy and research: statistics directorate; macroeconomic
            directorate; petroleum fund directorate; investment policy and analysis unit.
       iv. Support to directorate general of corporate services: professional development program; human
           resources; internal audit; legal; information technology; external communications; management
           development; strategic planning, policy and change management.
       v. Program implementation unit: advisor to program implementation officer; financial management;
          procurement; technical assistance performance management.

1.7       Other significant changes

The project has seen three restructurings during its lifetime.

The first and most significant one was completed in February of 2010. This was a Level 1 restructuring
with a refocus of the project development objectives.

MOF requested a formal restructuring of PFMCBP in September 2008 to better align the Program with
the new administrative structure of MOF and streamline its activities and results matrix. The main
mission to discuss program restructuring occurred in February 2009. Although the mission and Program
Paper were finalized in the first half of 2009, the actual restructuring papers were not submitted to the
Board until early 2010, to allow the GoTL to deal with objections in the public over PFMCBP
consultants’ remuneration.

The second restructuring was a Level II restructuring finalized in May 2011. It followed the June 2010
PFMCBP mid-term review, and focused on extending the project closing date from July 10, 2011 to
November 30, 2012, for instance to allow completion of activities expected to slow down during the
Presidential and Parliamentary elections scheduled in 2012. This extension was not included in the 2010
Level 1 restructuring as some contributing donors needed more time to get management approval for the
extension period.

The third and final extension of the program to January 2014 was approved on October 12, 2012, to
maintain successful implementation of the Strategic Plan, and bridge to a follow-on program from
Australia.


2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1       Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The PAD highlighted relevant lessons learnt from the implementation of large programs in Timor-Leste,
and from implementation of other capacity building projects both in Timor-Leste and abroad. The project
also “attempts to deal with extreme post-conflict capacity constraints” 3. The design noted the importance
of capacity and sound PFM systems when large budget support programs such as the then Trust Fund for
East Timor, and the Transition Support Program, are implemented using GoTL’s budget systems and
processes. The PFMCBP also incorporated lessons learnt from capacity building projects, noting that
“short-term, off-site training programs unrelated to staff work programs and the systems and processes in
which they work have not proved very effective in developing sustained capacity 4”. Hence, PFMCBP




3
    2008 Quality Assessment Group report
4
    Original PAD



                                                      4
adopted an approach to capacity building that placed an emphasis on mentoring, ‘on-the-job’ training and
competency-based capacity building.

Project design assessment

As a post-conflict fragile state, with thin capacity, the government of Timor-Leste, and notably its
Ministry of Finance, had to necessarily outsource some of its key functions and business processes, while
also seeking capacity and knowledge transfer. Given its challenging initial condition (for instance, the
Ministry of Finance as late as 2007 had no formally qualified accountants), the project was designed as
‘scaffolding’ to the institution, supporting its professionalization and policy deliverables, that could be
moved around the organization as needs were identified. As the 2011 World Development Report on
Fragile States and the literature 5on post conflict PFM strengthening suggest, the project would necessarily
be the start, not the end of support for institutions that take decades, not years, to be built. Furthermore, it
is often necessary to first focus on PFM performance, quickly bolstered by increasing emphasis on
capacity building, in very low capacity post-conflict environments, where quick evidence of improvement
in delivery of state services, for instance as a peace dividend, is needed. Finally, an economy that relies on
public investment for well over half of its non-oil 6 growth between 2001 and 2011, and until the private
sector picks up, must prioritize the strengthening of its MoF public financial management systems.

Continuing throughout the life of the project, the PFMCBP’s design framework sought to balance
technical assistance 7 with direct capacity building. This approach recognized the need to support the
GoTL in establishing core PFM systems and processes as the basis for executing expenditure plans and
delivering services. At the same time, the project design recognized the need for flexible and needs based
capacity building, both on the job and via formal training. In addition, the 2010 Mid Term Review
focused the project on organizational development, building the MoF and its systems as a whole, rather
than the capacity of individuals alone 8. The ICR supports this overall design framework, and considers
the PFMCBP to have been a crucial project for developing Timor-Leste’s core PFM functions. For
instance, towards the end of the first restructured period, the Ministry, with project support, released a
‘New Approach’, consistent with the Busan ‘New Deal’ 9 for managing technical assistance (TA) that
formally categorized TA roles in (a) Strategic policy and capacity development, (b) operational contractor
(essentially in-line staff), and (c) skills development, and captured this in consultants’ terms of reference.

As noted the PFMCBP’s design also sought to provide a coordination function by allowing the project to
absorb and coordinate other donor PFM capacity building initiatives under one umbrella, including a
multi-donor trust fund. The project support staff, with the Directorate General of Corporate Services,
played this role, culminating in the creation of the highly recognized National Directorate for
Management of External Support (to the Ministry of Finance). The ICR recognizes the importance of this
design feature given the extremely low capacity of the GoTL at the time and the large number of donors
involved in these reforms.




5
  See for instance Public Financial Management Reforms in Post-Conflict Countries, World Bank 2012; and Strengthening PFM
in Post conflict Countries: Lessons for PFM Practitioners and Country Programming Staff World Bank December 2012.
6
  Non-Oil GDP is the preferred measure of economic activity in Timor-Leste.
7
  This was mostly achieved through the placement of long-term technical and capacity building advisers.
8
  Anecdotally, several senior managers in the MoF were at one time project staff, including the Vice Minister of Finance,
Director General of Corporate Services, and head of the Directorate created to manage development partner assistance to the
MoF.
9
  The New Deal for Engagement in Fragile States, signed at the Busan high Level Forum for Aid Effectiveness, commits
development partners to a new approach, based on the Peace and Stability Goals, and principles of FOCUS and TRUS. These
include among others, strengthened country ownership, fragility assessments, increased use of country systems.



                                                            5
Project design was adjusted at restructuring in 2010 (as explained in section 1.3). By refocusing the
project to support the Ministry of Finance only, and no longer line ministries, the restructuring recognized
the need for strengthening PFM systems at a central level, and supporting the role of the Ministry as
coordinator of reforms in line ministries. This also recognized the separate preparation of systems-support
programs in the Ministries of Education, Health, and Transport (the latter through a road rehabilitation
project). The realignment of the project with the new structure within the MoF was also an important
change that improved relevance and project performance measurement (see annex 10 for the evolution of
the MoF organizational structure).

2.2       Implementation

The PFMCBP was implemented over a period of about seven years and two months (Nov 2006 to Jan
2014) with a total project cost estimated at US$31.8 million equivalent 10. The project was approved by
the Bank’s Board on March 21, 2006 and became effective 8 months after on November 15, 2006. It
closed on January 31, 2014. It is useful to distinguish the two distinctive stages of the project: (i) Stage
1: November 2006 to January 2010 (from effectiveness to first restructuring informed by the 2008 Quality
Assessment of Lending Portfolio (see Box 1); and (ii) Stage 2: January 2010 to January 2014 (from first
restructuring to completion11).

                                         Box 1: QALP-1 Main Findings
     •   A collapse of security and political turmoil soon after the project started diminished the chances of the
         project working almost immediately. This affected the ability to recruit quality TA, and also the willingness
         of bilateral donors to cede their PFM programs to PFMCBP. After elections and a coalition government and
         a new Minister of Finance, there was an almost complete loss of institutional memory about what the project
         was about and why it had come into being.
     •   Project design was a serious effort to address the situation the Bank found when it was asked by the
         Government to prevent a collapse of capacity as UN advisers were withdrawn, and to help the government
         get better results from existing PFM donor interventions.
     •   The restructuring reflects changed conditions on the ground and the need to the GoTL’s revised strategy for
         PFM reform and capacity building. It is also recognition by the present task team and the government that
         the original design was too complex.

The primary input provided by the project was the recruitments and oversight of a series of international
and national advisors, mostly in long-term positions (Annex 5). The project also supported the MoF’s
reform strategy and culminated by helping prepare its ‘2011-2030 MoF Strategic Plan’, reflecting the
Nation’s 2011-2030 Strategic Development Plan and the New Deal for Aid Effectiveness. The Ministry
of Finance was the implementing agency, supported by a Project Implementing Unit (PIU). While early
implementation of the project was delayed by a complex structure in a context of thin MoF management
capacity, as well as national insecurity, the proactive restructurings brought satisfactory progress. On
balance, the project closed with a moderately satisfactory rating.

The midterm review (June 2010) was a significant milestone in the project life cycle of PFMCBP. The
review confirmed status of progress for each restructured component and provided concrete action steps
to achieve the project results for the remainder of the program. The mid-term review recorded the




10
   Total program estimate was US$$37.2 million at appraisal (US$7 million IDA and US$30.2 Donors’ pledge amounts). Total
final project cost was US$31.8 million equivalent at project closing (US$7.48 million IDA and US$24.32 RETF).
11
   The restructured project was due to be completed in July, 2011. It underwent an 18 month no-cost extension and closed in
January, 2013.



                                                            6
following key findings and recommendations, reiterated in the IEGs assessment of PFMCBP 12. These
have improved program implementation:

The midterm review discussed three major areas of focus for the remainder of the program: (i) Priorities
for the next stage of PFM reforms; (ii) Priorities for the next stage of capacity development; and (iii)
Strengthening program management.

Priorities for the next stage of PFM reforms

Ensure effective and well managed decentralization of spending and procurement controls: The rapid
decentralization of controls to line ministries (and eventually to districts) entails significant risks and
requires MOF support to help ensure discipline and adherence to fiduciary standards. These risks are
heightened by the absence of internal and external audit capacity. The mission recommended prioritizing
capacity development of internal audit in MOF and a strategy to build capacity for this across
government. The mission recommended that MOF extend client services in critical areas such as
Treasury, Internal Audit and Asset Management (including training and standards setting), emulating the
experience of the Budget Directorate, and help coordinate external assistance to PFM across the
government.

Continue to improve core tax and customs administration functions: Strengthening and stabilizing core
tax administration functions help address tax avoidance and contribute to the Government’s objective of
strengthening non-oil revenue mobilization. Secondly, the mission recommended that MOF consider
securing the services of international tax auditors beyond the life of PFMCBP to support field audits of
petroleum companies. The Customs Directorate General have received relatively less support from
PFMCBP but have a clear agenda of reform with a number of initiatives already underway.

Consolidate progress on strengthening policy analysis capability: With the establishment of an Economic
Policy and Investment Agency, it is important to ensure that MOF maintains a strong policy analysis
capability.

Priorities for the next stage of capacity development

The mid-term review mission recommended a shift in the program’s approach on capacity development,
from a focus on individual competencies towards emphasizing the development of organizational capacity
of the Ministry to achieve its goals and objectives. The mission recommended that Corporate Services
continue to play a leadership role in this area, building on the achievements made in relation to the draft
Strategic Plan, merit-based staff recruitments, the restructuring of the Ministry, and ongoing client
surveys. The review recommended increasing the resources for Corporate Services - particularly in
relation to its Human Resources Unit, its strategic planning function, and its professional development
function. The mission recommended that organizational development should be central to the Strategic
Plan. The mission recommended that the Institutional Development Capacity Building Plan (IDCBP) be
fully integrated into the Ministry’s own strategy and plans.

The mission recommended that a new strategy be prepared for the Professional Development Program
(PDP) that prioritized professional training in MOF focused on foundation courses such as management,
numeracy, and English skills as well as customized technical training based on Directorates’ standard




12
     IEG evaluation of World Bank Timor-Leste country program 2000-2010 (2011)




                                                            7
operation procedures. The mission recommended that practical steps be taken to address the challenges
presented by language, starting with an official circular from Corporate Services providing guidance on
how to implement the official language policy in the Ministry of Finance. Other suggestions included a
“language audit‟ to identify key laws and regulations, policy papers and circulars that are not yet
available to Ministry of Finance staff in a working language (Tetun or Bahasa). The mission
recommended that immediate steps be taken to establish the Internal Audit Unit in Corporate Services.
And finally, the mission noted several important issues where Corporate Services needed to actively
engage with the Civil Service Commission to improve performance outcomes. These include: the
performance regime; the special career regime; the formalization of temporary staff; and the possible
introduction of a graduate (‘Young Professional’) program in MOF that has absorbed graduates returning
from PDP funded scholarship programs.

2.3   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The original M&E results matrix and reporting framework was complex. It had too many indicators, and
was hence difficult to manage. However, restructuring, PIU support, and strengthened client MoF
ownership reversed this.

Restructuring, aligned the original results matrix better with project components, which were in turn
closely aligned with the MoF’s organizational and accountability structure. It was also simplified to a
smaller and more measurable, set of indicators. There was one indicator at the PDO level and the six
intermediate outcomes were measured with 15 indicators at the results level.

The new PIU supported reporting, recognizing limited institutional capacity in this area. It also supported
the annual report preparation and was a secretariat to the Project Supervisory Committee that met twice a
year, chaired by the Minister for Finance with Development Partners.

These changes, combined with new management, strengthened GoTL ownership in providing policy
direction and evaluating outcomes.

By the end of PFMCBP, the project had supported the Ministry’s own results based management system
cascading from the MoF Strategic Plan, through its five year and annual action plans, with Key
Performance Indicators at the level of Directorates General, and Directorates. These indicators are
measurable using real time government financial data in the MoF’s web-based transparency portal, as
well as corporate information published in the MoF’s annual report. The project’s results indicators were
mapped onto the MoF’s monitoring framework, so reporting on the project became synonymous with
reporting on the ministry’s own work program. This synergy reflects best practice in using country
systems for M&E, and will necessarily continue under budget support, ensuring sustainability. Building
on this experience, the MoF is developing a planning and M&E framework (the Development Policy
Coordination Mechanism, or DPCM) for the whole of government that lifts attention to growth, poverty
and other key economic indicators set out in the SDP.

2.4   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The program has no environmental or safeguard issues as it did not finance any infrastructure or civil
works activities.

Capacity within the MoF to undertake effective procurement and financial management was very weak at
the start of the project. The risk assessment for financial management was ‘high’ and for procurement
‘substantial’. However, the Government mandated the use of country systems where possible, despite
challenges at project appraisal.




                                                    8
These efforts have paid off in the long term as the program is being implemented seamlessly using largely
GoTL procedures, notably in contract and HR management, payments, and audit. The PFMCBP has also
been a vehicle to assist the GoTL in formulating its own guidelines and procedures, for instance a suite of
standard operating procedures for everything from hiring, managing and remunerating staff, including
TA, to selection of candidates for training.

Since the program restructuring, fiduciary compliance has been rated ‘satisfactory’. The project unit
should be commended for its diligent monitoring on fiduciary compliance. Mitigating procedures put in
place in response to the 2011/12 fraud were implemented carefully. A full reconciliation of financial
reports provided the clearest statement to date of the projected closing balance. This allowed an
innovative use of some remaining funds whereby selected salary payments previously made from other
donor sources, were instead met from the project, by reimbursement.

2.5   Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

In 2012, the Minister of Finance requested a new modality of budget support to the Ministry of Finance to
follow from the PFMCBP Recipient Executed Trust Fund approach. PFMCBP’s (14 months) extension in
November 2012 provided a bridge and seamless transition for MoF’s reform program and TA support.
Over the period 2014-2017, Australia and the EU will provide US$25.5m (of which Australia US$15.9m)
in ‘Direct Budget Support to the Ministry of Finance. World Bank advisory services will inform the PFM
policy dialogue, with PFMCBP funding replaced by direct Australian assistance.

In this arrangement, donors will disburse a fixed and variable tranche of funds to the ministry of finance
against the MoF’s own Key Performance Indicators from its own Operational Plan. Each year, the MoF’s
progress will be verified by a team of independent experts.

PFMCBP readied the ministry for this transition, including through accelerated capacity building efforts
by the PIU during the final PFMCBP extension. First the project helped prepare the MoF Strategic Plan
2011-2030 containing the overarching set of sustainable policy reforms that budget support could back.
Second, it supported professional corporate management systems in the DG Corporate Services that
budget support could flow through, including the management and reporting of procurement, contracts
and payments. And in terms of HR systems, a ministry wide mapping of staff and their tasks identified
skills gaps and a corresponding ministry wide training and TA strategy.

3.    Assessment of Outcomes

3.1   Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The PFMCBP’s objective to strengthen the government’s capacity to manage public finances has
remained relevant through the life of the project. Reinforcing public finance management and government
capacity continues to be one of the key intervention areas of the Country Partnership Strategy (FY13-
FY17), which aims at “strengthening institutions for quality of spending and inclusive service delivery”.
In particular, the CPS notes that through the PFMCBP the World Bank will continue to “focus on cross-
sector public financial management, macroeconomic stability, and budget execution”.

The objectives of the PFMCBP are also consistent with Timor-Leste’s Strategic Development Plan (2011-
2030) which prioritizes public financial management reforms, especially in light of the growing public
expenditure and investment program. The fourth pillar of the SDP sets out to “improve the capacity and
effectiveness of state institutions through civil service reform and good public financial management”,

Besides its alignment with the CPS and the national development plan, PFMCBP maintained relevance in
design and implementation through the restructuring of the operation in 2010 (see section 1.3).



                                                    9
The coordination function of the PFMCBP was also highly relevant to the circumstances of GoTL and the
large number of donors involved in PFM reforms in Timor-Leste. It reduced the administrative burden on
the GoTL, ensuring that the program placed much less strain on the already stretched capacity of
government staff than it would have otherwise.

As explained above and in greater detail in section 3.2, the program struck a careful balance between
technical assistance and capacity building, thereby maintaining its relevance.

Rating: Satisfactory

3.2      Achievement of Project Development Objectives

See Annex 2 and Annex 9 for a detailed assessment of results. The ICR contains results updates in
relation to the most recent interim project results report, incorporating additional evidence obtained.

PDO Indicators

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

PDO 13: Capacity in the Ministry of Finance strengthened for prudent, effective and accountable planning
and management of public finances to promote growth and poverty reduction.

Summary:

There are three dimensions to the PDO, namely strengthened MoF capacity, improved PFM; and the
promotion of growth and poverty reduction.
First MoF’s capacity has been strengthened and it has become a competent, professionally managed
institution, ready to receive donor budget support, and with clear plans to tackle its next challenges (for
instance in asset management and supporting line ministries.) The MoF now uses fewer PFMCBP
international advisors (18 at project closing compared to 45 at inception) to deliver a more ambitious
policy agenda under the project. The Institutional Development and Capacity Building Plan (IDCBP) has
been implemented and has evolved into a government wide Human Capital Development Fund, which is
now a formal part of the state budget, and managed by the Ministry of Education. In the MoF the HCDF
meets training needs, including through a new PFM training center. These needs are identified through a
staff, task, and capacity mapping exercise completed this year under the project (see below and Annexes 2
and 9).
Second, a recent PEFA repeat assessment (see summary scores in Annex 3) showed clear strengthening of
PFM from 2010 (already better than 2007) to 2013. Strongest gains were recorded in policy-based
budgeting and tax administration, while smaller gains were recorded in internal controls, accounting and
recording, external scrutiny and budget credibility.

Third as well as improving the management of public resources, the project has also supported an
increase in domestic taxes as a share of non-oil GDP, which in turn has facilitated increased government
expenditure and increased non-oil GDP growth. In other words, the project has helped transform a weak
fiscal sector in Timor-Leste into a significant sector making meaningful investments in the economy for
long term growth. Annual growth of 12 percent from 2007-12 in the non-oil economy is among the
highest globally and public investment (which is better budgeted than it was previously) has contributed a


13
     The ICR assess the post-restructuring PDO.



                                                     10
significant share of this. Overall, the project is likely to have had positive effects on growth and poverty
reduction, although the size of these effects is difficult to quantify.

                Figure 1: Timor-Leste growth and poverty reduction (WB estimates)




Having started from a very low base, with limited capacity in the Ministry of Finance to execute basic
public finance functions, the results framework indicates that the project has had a significant impact on
the quality of PFM processes within the MoF, some of which are at an advanced stage compared to other
fragile and developing economies. In particular, the institutional advances achieved by the MoF within 10
years (seven of which with PFMCBP support) were described by the 2011 World Development Report on
Fragile States as normally taking 15-30 years. These advances include a Treasury Single Account, timely
and comprehensive budgets scrutinized by parliament, a comprehensive chart of accounts, and timely
audited financial statements presented to Parliament.

PFMCBP has been the main coordinating instrument around PFM since 2007, when MoF’s workload
increased sharply with higher petroleum receipts and the 2006 crisis.

While it is always difficult to identify the specific reasons underlying the success of particular PFM
reforms, the mid-term review mission in 2010 found that technical assistance had been an important – and
sometimes the crucial – factor in helping the Government respond to urgent needs. It also found that the
program had taken a long-term view, for instance through the introduction of an Integrated Financial
Management Information System (IFMIS); the strengthening of revenue administration; and the
development of a policy analysis capability. Together with the MoF reorganization, these reforms have
led to increased clarity over roles and responsibilities, and greater communication across the ministry,
with management and staff growing in confidence. Advisers are now only invited to the Senior
Management meeting on a case by case basis and the working language is Tetun. The program was also
found to have had a positive impact on engagement with the line ministries, the Council of Ministers, and
the Parliament.

The project complemented policy advice and technical assistance with key analysis: (i) MoF Strategic
Plan 2011-2030; (ii) Diagnostic Trade Integration Study; (iii) Procurement Analysis; (iv) Poverty profile;
(v) Public Expenditure Review of Infrastructure and (vi) Timor-Leste Living Standards Survey.

More recently, the 2013 PEFA report notes that Timor-Leste has continued to make “solid progress” in
strengthening PFM and achieving fiscal transparency over the post-restructuring period from 2010 to
2013. It highlights a number of overall achievements that are attributable to the PFMCBP, including:



                                                    11
    •   the strengthening of public expenditure management through simplification and strengthening of
        treasury systems and processes, and increased delegation of authority to line ministries;
    •   a complete overhaul of budgeting systems with timely budgets submitted within a more prudent
        fiscal envelope, documentation and financial management legislation;
    •   improved revenue management, including increased transparency in tax administration and
        reinforcing Petroleum Tax administration; and
    •   a gradual improvement in macroeconomic planning.

Additional project supported achievements after the 2013 PEFA cut-off period include: the publication of
the first full series of national accounts to 2011, preparation of financial regulations, a budget preparation
manual, settling of payment arrears, a clean-up of databases for taxpayers, the preparation of a customs
code and infrastructure for border-crossings, and the completion of only the second time release study for
port cargo.

The PDO points to the ultimate objectives of promoting growth and poverty reduction. The extent to
which the PFMCBP contributed to these higher level outcomes depended on the effectiveness of public
finances in supporting the implementation of policies, stimulating public investments and funding
programs for increasing opportunities and reducing hardship. The project tangibly strengthened the
management of public resources, helping to ensure that the budget was well planned in light of
government strategy. It also supported an increase in domestic and petroleum tax revenues, which helped
to increase the size of the expenditure program. For instance the share of petroleum rents accruing to the
GoTL as revenues has increased in the last 7 years, as has the tax to non-oil GDP rate. Improvements in
budget execution in the early years of the program also gave rise to continued growth in nominal
spending, which directly translated into substantial non-oil GDP growth, and poverty reduction,
particularly in urban areas (although budget execution has deteriorated more recently).

In conclusion, the PFMCBP has provided substantial pooled funding and coordinated technical assistance
to support the MoF and its strategic plans, delivering significant policy reforms, and a more professional
institution, capable of managing itself and many more activities in the PFM cycle than when the project
began, and with fewer advisors.

While substantial progress has been achieved, the regular and sustainable transfer of skills and
capabilities has also been beset by numerous challenges, including (see also section 5):

    •   Capacity building was being pursued at the MoF starting from a low skills base, especially for
        technical functions. As a result, external advisors were at times unable to transfer knowledge to
        counterparts due to the lack of absorption capacity. Language barriers were also an important
        constraint that hindered communication between staff and advisors at times.
    •   At times, PFMCBP advisors have had to assume more in-line functions than would otherwise be
        desired, due to the high levels of pressure to implement the MoF’s increasingly challenging
        reform agenda. Capacity development of Timorese staff suffered in these cases as advisors took
        on a direct implementation role rather than primarily focusing on supporting their local
        counterparts to deliver the task. The TA policy to address this multiple use of consultants was
        prepared towards the end of the program.
    •   The MoF underwent two major re-organizations through the duration of PFMCBP, first in 2009
        and then again in 2013. These organizational changes, combined with other staff movements,
        have resulted in staff rotations at the technical and managerial levels that moved trained staff to
        new functions. Although these movements were likely to be beneficial from an institutional
        development perspective in the medium term, they also resulted in disruptions to day-to-day
        capacity building work.


                                                     12
      •    Turnover of external advisors posed an additional challenge to capacity building as these
           movements interrupted the transfer of skills between individuals.

Concerns about the effectiveness of capacity building in part reflect deliberate choices over sequencing
and priorities and the need to get basic PFM systems in place before focusing on the transfer of skills.
However, as the 2013 PEFA notes, this strategy risks creating a system that is heavily reliant on the
presence of international advisers. Overall, the extent to which MoF staff are currently capable of
independently realizing the objectives of their respective directorates is somewhat variable 14 . For
instance, whereas budget planning and statistics functions are operating effectively without TA (including
at the management level), other areas such as macroeconomic policy analysis, coordination of treasury
operations and financial reporting continue to rely on support from external advisors.

Relative to the start point, however, improvements in capacity have been significant across the board.
Moreover, the foundation work in capacity building put in place through the various modalities supported
by PFMCBP will continue in the next phase through budget support operation and the GoTL’s Human
Capital Development Fund (HCDF) - part of the state budget dedicated to government capacity building.
This will help ensure the sustainability of gains facilitated by the Program, and allow further
improvements in the period ahead.

The GoTL PFM Capacity Building Centre has been in operation since May 2013. This facility is to
provide a targeted program of training for Ministry staff and public sector employees engaged in PFM
activities. The Center will deploy a range of capacity building approaches.

Finally, the Ministry Guidelines 01/2013/VGC/MF ensure best use of TA, by hiring them for particular
needs, including: strategy and/or policy advisers; skills development advisers; technical advisers; and,
technical professionals.

Specific achievements relating to the PDO and progress in capacity building can be organized in terms of
each of the intermediate outcomes (see Section 1.3 and results indicators in the data sheet):

State Finances: General Budget of the State is prepared in accordance with the budget timetable based
on enhanced coordination, quality and realism of line ministry submissions, reflecting government
priorities and medium-term fiscal sustainability;

Budget planning and preparation has been strengthened substantially as a result of support from
PFMCBP. Recent budgets have been submitted on time and include multi-year estimates of expenditure
and revenue. Fiscal discipline has been maintained, with reductions in the non-oil deficit as a proportion
of non-oil GDP, apart from in 2013 when estimated non-oil GDP was revised down sharply.

The recent PEFA finds that the annual budget formulation and preparation process is now carried out in a
“more informed and orderly manner”. Capacity within the budget directorate has been strengthened, with
the 2013 and 2014 budgets prepared with minimal input from external technical assistance. The budget
documents are comprehensive (receiving the maximum PEFA score of A), and include highly relevant
analysis and are available to the public.




14
     See Annex 7 for the MoF’s outline of numerous areas where it no longer relies on foreign advisers.




                                                          13
Over the first years of the program, Timor Leste’s budget grew rapidly, resulting in challenges relating to
the quality of spending plans. Budgets have declined over the past three years, to be more in line with the
Government’s spending capacity, which remains low in line ministries. Despite the decline in budgets,
execution rates have deteriorated in recent years, with 2013 showing particularly low rates in capital and
development spending. In particular, there are a number of outstanding issues relating to the realism of
capital budget expenditure projections. While execution of the recurrent budget remains closer to 90 per
cent, infrastructure spending has fallen following the completion of large projects, notably electrification.
Budget data indicate that major delays have been observed predominantly within roads, housing, and oil
and gas projects, suggesting limited capacity to select and execute large infrastructure projects.

Overall, however, measures to improve budget credibility are taking effect. Parliament has held as
quarterly hearings on execution and the 2014 budget execution decree law commits to a reduction in the
state budget if execution is not projected to reach 75 percent by the end of the third quarter. This more
intensive monitoring, combined with lowering of budgets, and continued improvements to execution
capacity are likely to mean overall execution rates rise sharply to over 85 per cent in 2014.

The budget is submitted on time. It is generally formulated with due regard to Government policy.
However, coordination among MOF, Major Projects Secretariat (MPS) and Line Ministries in overall
project planning and management remains a challenge. Moreover, control over implementation of the
annual budget as a whole has been adversely affected by large mismatches and changes in the allocation
of budgetary resources across ministries. As a result, at times the budget has not responded to all policy
priorities set forth in the national development plans.

On strengthening PFM in line ministries, there has been considerable work to improve coordination
between PFMCBP and TA support in the Ministries of Education and Health in particular. The World
Bank-supervised programs have now prepared PFM strengthening roadmaps. The 2013 budget
submissions in both ministries were within the fiscal envelopes.

Treasury and procurement functions are managed efficiently and transparently with due regard to
accountability and quality of expenditure

Treasury reforms have advanced at a steady pace with support from the PFMCBP. Accounting, payments
and reporting processes have been strengthened and a well-supported Financial Management Information
System (FMIS) has been developed. The program has been critical in ensuring appropriate design,
training and implementation of new FMIS modules, including a fully functional Transparency Module
that allows real time monitoring of spending and revenue mobilization, with budget execution rates now
defined and included online. The basic payments and reconciliation processes are handled by treasury
staff with support and supervision from the technical advisors. Reconciliation of government bank
accounts is occurring on a regular basis, albeit with some delay. Timor-Leste is one of the few developing
countries to publish government financial statements in accordance with the IPSAS cash basis
international public accounting standards. Audited statements are prepared and submitted to parliament,
although again with some lags, due to delays in assessment by the court of auditors.

Remaining focus areas of reform lie in payments management and financial reporting. An important
challenge facing the treasury is the general lack of accounting capacity in Timor-Leste. The MoF is
currently investing in training accounting graduates overseas. Sixteen students supported at Indonesia’s
Public Accounting Academy (STAN) are being closely monitored by the MoF’s corporate services
Directorate General, and will likely be reabsorbed, as other scholarship students, in the new Young
Professional Program, set up under the project’s Professional Development Program (PDP).

Revenue and Customs: Government revenue functions are administered efficiently and transparently,
with improved revenue performance in line with economic developments and compliance



                                                     14
Significant improvements have been made in strengthening revenue and customs administration and
compliance procedures, with considerable support from the PFMCBP. Government revenue functions are
administered efficiently and transparently, with improved revenue performance, as indicated by
increasing domestic tax collections as a percentage of non-oil GDP. Indeed, actual revenues have
systematically exceeded non-oil revenue projections in recent years, and efforts to reduce these deviations
will be necessary to enhance the credibility of the budget.

There has also been encouraging progress in strengthening tax administration, including tax audit, legal
procedures and public access to tax information. A clean-up of the tax identification number system while
linking it to the important creation of a one-stop shop for business registration has helped clarify the tax
base. Petroleum tax audits have been introduced and back-taxes claimed in court from petroleum
producers. Capital gains tax assessments are now conducted. These measures have contributed to
improvements in revenue collection. At the same time, significant capacity gaps exist in several areas
such as audit, tax policy and legal reforms and continued support will be needed to institutionalize the
procedures underpinning the recent administrative reforms.

PFMCBP has supported the progress made on many of the priorities identified in the Customs Reform
and Modernization Plan 2008 – 2013, including investments in customs facilities financed through the
state budget and the adoption of customs efficiency and modernization processes. A recent Time Release
study has shown an improvement in time taken to clear port cargo. A World Bank Group (IFC) customs
modernization project will sustain support to complete the customs code and its business processes, and
develop a customs brokers association.

Policy Analysis and Research: Government policies and budget decisions are better informed by timely
economic analysis and projections based on reliable data

Economic Policy and Statistics is one of the most technically demanding work programs in the Ministry
of Finance yet progress throughout the duration of PFMCBP has been notable and has been appropriately
focused on building the foundations of the statistical and economic policy processes. The budget now
includes a medium term outlook for economic growth, revenue and expenditure with direct inputs from
the directorates for economic policy and statistics through the collection of key economic statistics and
the development of Timor-Leste’s macroeconomic model. The MoF has been well supported with
external technical assistance through the PFMCBP to both manage and produce key results such as
economic and expenditure analysis, national accounts and national surveys. A medium term fiscal
framework sets the annual fiscal envelope to start the budget preparation process. Capacity building in
statistics has been relatively effective in establishing the capacity for the basic operations with only
occasional input (e.g. to design national surveys). Unlike in 2007, the operational management of the
2013/14 Timor-Leste Living Standards Survey will be fully undertaken by the Statistics Office, with
quality control and design support from external TA. Economic policy analysis on the other hand, for
instance in compiling national accounts, and analyzing poverty, continues to require external support to
deliver analytical outputs due to the lack of capacity within the Ministry of Finance. This is an area of
work that will continue to require external support in the long term given the technical nature of this area
and the persisting capacity gaps.

Corporate Services: Accountability, integrity and service culture is strengthened by improved
performance of core corporate support functions, and enhanced sustainability of MoF operations

The Corporate Services Directorate leads the strategic planning and management functions of the MoF.
The Directorate has made progress in areas of high importance to MoF, in particular the preparation and
implementation of the MoF Strategic Plan 2011-2030. It also implemented a series of important
initiatives to strengthen MoF management with support from PFMCBP including updated Annual Action
Plans with key performance indicators to implement the MoF Strategic Plan and the new government
Five Year Plan, MoF task and staff mapping exercises, a skills gap analysis, and a formal process for


                                                    15
identifying training needs, candidates and courses; a records management system, Standard Operating
Procedures. Merit-based recruitment and promotion, and accountability of managers has increased.
One of the objectives of the 2010 project restructuring was to refocus support to enhance capacity
building efforts to implement civil service reform measures in MoF and enhance Timorese capacity.
While the original PAD set out an indicative five-year training plan, the restructuring proposed a
Professional Development Program (PDP) under the leadership of the Directorate of Corporate Services.
The PDP was to provide scholarships, supplementary scholarships, customized training courses and
knowledge exchange activities to staff across all four Directorates General of the MoF. An Institutional
Development and Capacity Building Plan (IDCBP) was developed and incorporated in the Strategic Plan
of the Ministry of Finance, 2011 to 2030.The PDP helped deliver the IDCBP. Subsequent work led to the
development of an operational plan for the Ministry in terms of its 5 Year Plan 2012 to 2017. This Plan
included specific key performance indicators for each work unit in the Ministry and this has been the
basis of monitoring the reform program that included capacity building initiatives.
The ministry deployed a three pronged approach 15to capacity building in line with best practice, namely
institutional capacity building; organizational capacity building; and, individual or staff capacity building.
Although the IDCBP was part of the Strategic Plan, there was an important element of analysis missing to
inform capacity and training needs. The staff mapping analysis was completed only in early 2013 due
mainly to ongoing organizational changes.
The challenges in managing the implementation of the training plans of 2010, 2011 and 2012 suggests
that the Ministry was not ready for this level of integration, nor did it have the appropriate structures to
manage such a plan.
The effectiveness of the PDP should be assessed in light of these premises. The PDP Secretariat did not
have a clear mandate to promote the training programs envisaged under the PDP, it was also operating in
a difficult transition period. The movement of staff due to the organizational changes also impacted on the
Directorates to formulate their needs assessment for training and capacity building for their staff.
Increasingly, there are structures, systems and processes, and the training facilities and leadership that
will ensure that sustainable development programs can proceed (e.g. Ministry Training Plan). This
includes the PFM Capacity Building Centre that serves all government PFM training needs.
The clearest evidence of the impact and sustainability of the PDP, is that the Human Capital Development
Fund (US$30m) was created in 2011, on the basis of the PDP in the MoF, to serve whole of government
training and capacity building needs. Increasingly MOF sought funding under the Government’s HCDF,
rather than the PDP.
Despite all these challenges, the achievements of the PDP over the life of the project have been positive
overall (see table in Annex 2). The spending on scholarships has been substantial, however, all graduates
have integrated into the Ministry. Annex 2 also highlights an example of ‘good practice’ resulting in
satisfactory outcome for the Directorate of Customs who has effectively used PDP resources to strike a
twinning arrangement with the University of Canberra on a customized training on core customs modules
which has benefitted 210 staff members.

In summary, capacity building under PFMCBP is not only the PDP. All components of the project
contribute to achieving the project development objective. In addition to capacity building through the
PDP, it is important to record that the support from technical advisers, also as positive role models, has
been significant in terms of capacity building for counterparts. Advisers provided on-the-job training,


15
  ICR background paper: Update on Capacity Building in the Ministry of Finance , Democratic Republic of
Timor-Leste




                                                     16
mentoring, informal and workplace workshops and training sessions. They provided strategic and
operational advice to their counterparts, and when the MoF’s KPIs were put in place for all managers, the
advisers were required to link their work plans and reporting, not only to their TORs, but also to the KPIs
of their work unit, leading to greater accountability.

Program Implementation: The Program is effectively implemented through maintenance of operational
standards, M&E, and regular reporting on results

The breadth of the agenda has meant less progress on some key program objectives such as maintaining
policy dialogue with donors; and monitoring and evaluation of program activities. This is in part due to
deliberate choices over sequencing and priorities and the need to get basic systems in place.

The PFMCBP benefited from a dedicated PIU, Overall, the PIU contributed to the improvement of the
management of the project, given the inadequate institutional capacity for project management (see annex
7). However, turnover of staff within the PIU was an important challenge to project management. These
challenges were met in part through increased program supervision, as well as greater integration of the
PIU into the General Directorate of Corporate Services. By April 2013, the fiduciary staff of the PIU
(procurement and financial management) were integrated in the National Directorate for General
Administration and Finance and the Senior Program Manager was working closely with the Director
General, the National Director for Management of External Support (sharing an office), the Coordinator
of Human Resources and the National Director, General Administration.

3.3   Efficiency

The PFMCBP was not required to undertake a NPV/EIRR analysis. An economic analysis of the project’s
benefits was also not applicable and was not included in the PAD due to the difficulty and complication in
defining, measuring and separating specific economic benefits of capacity building projects. Nevertheless,
the project was associated with a number of economic benefits for instance in terms of increased revenues
and economic expansion through better economic management, especially of public finances.

Annex 3 provides a detailed analysis of proxy economic benefits, summarized here. The credibility of the
budget has improved as budgets have been moderated in line with spending capacity. While execution of
the capital budget has faltered, budget execution in recurrent spending has been high since 2009. But
looking ahead, the Government plans to stabilize public expenditure in the following years in line with
fiscal sustainability. Improved efficiency in petroleum tax audits has contributed to the growth of the
Petroleum Fund. Domestic revenues in 2013 were almost four times larger than in 2006. A better in-
house macro-fiscal framework led to a strict fiscal envelope and budget, for greater fiscal sustainability.
Public investment has made a large contribution to non-oil Economic growth. But the private sector will
need to compensate, as public spending settles at a sustainable level.

In terms of costs, an independent review, validated by subsequent program evaluations, found that
PFMCBP consultant salaries were within international norms. See also Annex 4 a.

3.4   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The PFMCBP contributed to strengthening the capacity of Timor-Leste’s Ministry of Finance for public
finance management. The PDO remained relevant throughout the life of the project. Progress was made in
a difficult context, albeit at an uneven speed across all components. The project contributed to the
development of solid public financial management systems and set a sound foundation for further reforms
that will be managed directly by the MoF through a budget support arrangement with development
partners. In addition, the evidence so far supports the assessment that the capacity building objective and
its achievements could be sustained, especially given the government’s ownership and commitment to
reform.

                                                    17
Based on the rating relevance, effectiveness (PDO) and efficiency, the PFMCBP is rated as Moderately
Satisfactory.

                                               Revenue       Policy,
                                 State                                       Corporate      Program
                                                 and      Analysis and
                               Finances                                       Services   Implementation
                                               Customs     Research
      Relevance                    HS             HS           HS                S             S
      Effectiveness (PDO)           S              S           HS               MS             S
      Efficiency                   HS              S           HS               MS             S
          HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory; MS=Moderately Satisfactory

The individual component rating is based on assessments of results indicators (section 3.2 and data sheet);
on efficiency section 3.3 including the level of spending vs. planned, during the life of the project.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

While there was not intended to be a direct impact on poverty, gender or social development, PFMCBP
was associated with a period of strong economic growth and urban improvements in wellbeing. Insofar as
there is some improvement in the government’s capacity to effectively manage public resources, this
would result in efficiency gains and better management of public service programs and deliveries. These
would in turn translate into better allocation of resources devoted to or relevant for the poverty reduction
strategy, and in the delivery of public services to the poor and disadvantaged.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project primarily contributed to institutional strengthening for MoF as discussed in sections 2.2 and
3.2. However, it also contributed indirectly to institutional strengthening for public finance management
in line ministries. In addition, by supporting the significant level of transparency in public finances,
PFMCBP has indirectly contributed to strengthen government, parliamentary and public oversight, with
likely impact beyond the life of the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Donor coordination was improved, making TA as a whole to the ministry, more efficient. After 2006,
support for PFM capacity building provided through the PFMCB project was better coordinated among
key development partners, better aligned with government priorities, and more consistent with the spirit
of the Paris Agreement (IEG 2011 Timor-Leste country program evaluation).

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable. This section is not required for this report as this is a core ICR.

3.7    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The main risks to the development outcome concerns sustainability. The risk to Development Outcome is
considered ‘low’ given the GoTL’s demonstrated strong ownership, commitment to the PFM reform
agenda and to capacity building for all levels of staff, and the participation of development partners in the
budget support policy dialogue post-PFMCBP. The focus on recruiting skilled staff and the generous
resources allocated to the government’s human capacity development fund support these goals. Although
the risk is likely to be low, the likelihood of sustainably attaining an adequate level of capacity with a


                                                      18
significant reduction in external technical assistance remains a long-term goal, especially given the
relatively small pool of qualified national professionals residing in country.

                            Box 1: A fiduciary and development risk assessment of
                             Timor-Leste’s PFM system was undertaken in 2012
     It found that systems are improving relatively fast, reducing inherent fiduciary, development and reputation
     risks. It also found strong commitment demonstrated from MoF leadership to reform and institutional capacity
     building, as acknowledged by development partners. In particular, the assessment found that PFM systems
     improved significantly since 2007, with fiduciary risks falling from high to moderate in the space of 3 years.
     Supporting evidence for these findings included: i) PEFA Assessments (2007 and 2010); ii) World Bank
     annual Country Policy and Institutional Assessments (CPIA); iii) Worldwide Governance Indicators; iii)
     Revenue Watch Index trends; iv) Open Budget Index; v) Corruption Perception Index trends; vi) Ease of
     Doing Business Ratings; vii) Macroeconomic Indicators; viii) UNDP’s Human Development Indices; ix)
     External Audits of GoTL’s Financial Statements; and x) service delivery assessments.


4.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

4.1      Bank Performance

Early program implementation was slow due to political and social instability, capacity constraints, as
well as delays in establishing the Program Implementation Unit, delays in integrating existing bilateral
projects into the Program, and insufficient in-country support and supervision from the Bank. However,
this underperformance was turned-around by more intensive Bank supervision, including the appointment
of a country-based TTL in November 2007, stronger government ownership (with a new Minister of
Finance taking strong ownership of the Program following elections in 2007), and Program restructuring.

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

The Bank worked in partnership with the government and donors on the design and preparation of the
project to support the country’s National Development Plan (NDP). The PFMCBP adheres to the 2005
First Full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) four principles of engagement: building institutional
capacity; deepening the results orientation; strengthening transparency and communication; and
consolidating and extending strong partnerships established among development partners. The PFMCBP
was particularly focused on the good governance pillar of the CAS and on its corresponding outcomes. It
also sought to contribute to the service delivery and job creation CAS pillars.

The ICR recognizes that this was a far too ambitious agenda and complex project design. At the request
of the Government, the project was restructured to (i) realign the program to the MoF reform and
organizational process and (ii) simplify the program to allow for more flexibility.

On instrument and funding: the pooled arrangement through the MDTF has been pivotal to the success of
the program in Stage 2 – but at appraisal the MOU had not been fully endorsed by all donors – this led to
delay in mobilization of funding which also contributed to the slow start of the project.

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

(b) Quality of Supervision

In normal circumstances, project implementation should start immediately at effectiveness; however, the
country was under civil strife in 2006-07 and a new Government installed in 2007. In fact,
implementation only started in early 2008 with IDA resources, the MDTF Grant Agreement to the
recipient was signed in March 2009.


                                                          19
Early Bank supervision was insufficient for a project and environment of this complexity and the high
turnover of task team leaders prior to restructuring may also explain the weak performance of the project
in its initial period.

Post restructuring, supervision was sustained with regular implementation support missions, including a
component-specific topical theme that allowed a deeper substantive analysis of progress and challenges
against the results framework. A mission in 2012 helped prepare the design for the approved follow-on
World Bank Group customs operation. With a dedicated PIU team in place, financial management and
procurement missions were regular.

Rating: Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

The diligent performance of the Bank Teams post restructuring, including task team leaders based in the
field compensates for the limitation in earlier years.

According to the ICR guidelines, overall ratings are dictated by the combination of ratings for Quality at
Entry and Quality of Supervision. This implies a rating of Moderately Satisfactory for overall Bank
performance.

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

4.2   Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

After a slow start, the Government of Timor-Leste took strong ownership of its PFM reform agenda,
recognizing the importance of strong fiscal management for sustainable growth. Timor-Leste has world
class petroleum revenue management systems, including the Petroleum Fund. But the pace and quality of
spending has declined as spending institutions and systems are stretched by a demanding government
program.

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The Ministry of Finance has been a strong manager of this program, using it intelligently and effectively
to both define and implement its challenging reform agenda. Many, although not all, of the restructured
results indicators have been met, and are on an improving trend. However, the reform agenda remains
challenging. The MoF has also improved its program implementation, fully utilizing the support from the
PIU.

Rating: Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

The overall strong ownership by government and the implementing agency, as well as the consistent
performance, as well as the willingness to remedy lagging areas, justifies an overall rating of Satisfactory.

Rating: Satisfactory




                                                     20
5.     Lessons Learned

Project Specific

•    The high turnover of international and national advisors in the project (see Annex 5) impacted on the
     efficient and smooth implementation of the project.
•    Based on the results assessed in Stage 2 compared to Stage 1, dedicated PIU is highly desirable in a
     low capacity and post conflict environment.
•    Equally the high turnover of World Bank task team leaders has contributed to difficulties in managing
     the project.
•    Capacity building initiatives should be closely followed with an effective monitoring mechanism that
     can flag issues as they occur.
•    Integration of national PIU staff to the Corporate Services should start early in the process to
     maximize mentoring and transfer of knowledge and skills.
•    Need to focus on building core MoF capacity to steer national PFM systems and build capacity in line
     ministries.
•    PIU effectiveness enhanced when members have clear responsibilities and are co-located with
     relevant counterparts.
•    During consultant selection, emphasis should be placed on demonstrated teamwork, communication
     skills, capacity building skills in adviser selection criteria, together with relevant
     professional/technical skills.
•    Quality at entry - a more modest scope at entry to ensure quick wins may have been more prudent and
     cost effective.

General
•    Continued and embedded long-term support is essential for sustainable capacity building.
•    The importance of clear government ownership and steering through the Ministry’s own governance
     structures.
•    Coordinating PFM donors under one umbrella supports capacity building in fragile low capacity
     contexts.
•    Need to balance implementation and capacity building roles of external technical advisors.
•    Use of country systems for cost effectiveness and sustainability.

6.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Not applicable.

(b) Cofinanciers

The overall assessment by donors is that the project has been very effective in achieving its objectives.
Co-financiers have noted a continuous improvement in supervision, and rate this as highly satisfactory at
project conclusion. Donors with representations in country have voiced appreciation for regular project
updates, and rapid responses to information requests. They also appreciate the Bank’s relationship built
with co-financiers and the government, to support implementation.

                                                      21
A specific area noted for improvement is the need to have a task team leader in country throughout the
project life, given the project’s complexity. Donors have also raised concerns about cumbersome World
Bank procedures, in particular on procurement. Certain co-financiers have also questioned the long run
appropriateness of the Recipient Executed Trust Fund approach in Timor-Leste, instead preferring budget
support.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                                  22
                                   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component before restructuring (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                 Initial Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                                                                      Percentage of
             Original Components                  Estimate (USD      Estimate (USD
                                                                                        Appraisal
                                                     millions)          millions)
 A. Public Expenditure Management                      15.46               2.17            14%
 B. Revenue Administration and
                                                        9.60               2.15            22%
 Macroeconomic Management
 C. Program-wide Activities                             7.05               0.08              1%
 D. Support for Improvement in Governance
                                                        2.30               1.82            79%
 and Management (SIGMA)
 E. Program Implementation                              2.80               0.92            33%
                           Total Project Costs         37.21               7.14           19.2%

Note: The disbursements before restructuring were made solely from the IDA Grant H2100.

Project Cost by Component after restructuring (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                  Restructuring
                                                                      Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                   Appraisal
                 Components                                          Estimate (USD    Restructured
                                                 Estimate (USD
                                                                        millions)      Appraisal
                                                    millions)
 A. Strengthening Capacity in the General
                                                        7.20               7.34          102%
 Directorate of State Finances
 B. Strengthening Capacity in the General
                                                        6.52               6.29            96%
 Directorate of Revenue and Customs


 C. Strengthening Capacity in the General
                                                        2.01               4.46           222%
 Directorate of Policy Analysis and Research


 D. Strengthening Capacity in the General
 Directorate of Corporate Services ($6.66M)
                                                      13.06               13.64           104%
     •   Professional Development Program
         ($4.0M)
     •   Program Implementation ($2.4M)
                          Total Project Costs         28.79               31.73           110%
                Total Project Costs at closing        32.10               31.73            99%

Note: The restructuring estimates were more conservative – the confirmed contributions from donors
totaled $21.5M for the RETF in 2010 and the IDA Grant was valued at $7.23M. Additional contributions
were received later during the life of the project. The final contributions from donors for the RETF plus
investment income allocated to the RETF totaled $25.1M. Re-allocations and adjustments within
components of the project were made as more funds became available.

As discussed in the main text of this ICR, the preparation and appraisal team costed the project based on
IDA contribution of US$7.0M equivalent and the pledged amount from donors’ totaling US$27.0M
equivalent in 2006. Some of this support came from: (i) the IMF to the Treasury; (ii) the Norwegian
government petroleum resource management; and (iii) the Japanese government to Aid Effectiveness.

                                                      23
(b) Financing
                                                                     Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                      Type of                                          Percentage of
               Source of Funds                                        Estimate       Estimate
                                                     Cofinancing                                         Appraisal
                                                                   (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                              In kind            0.50           0.50               100%
IDA Grant                                                                7.00           7.48               106%
MDTF TF93959                                          RETF              25.10          24.32                97%

Note: The GoTL in kind contribution over the life of the project exceeds by far the initial estimate but it is
difficult to attribute a monetary value. The MDTF contribution was estimated at $21.5M at restructuring,
additional resources of about $4.0M were provided to the program.


Parent Trust Fund : 70932 - Multi Donor Trust Fund for the Planning and Financial Management
Capacity Building Project in Timor-Leste

 Contribution Receipts in USD for Recipient and Bank Executed Activities
 Information is as of 15-Jul-2014
                                Donor                                    FY08-FY10     FY11-FY13          TOTAL
 Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (formerly known as
                                                                           7,247,000     4,641,750       11,888,750
 AusAID)
 EU-Commission of the European Communities                                 2,788,450     2,357,775         5,146,225
 Ireland - Minister for Foreign Affairs/ Irish Aid                         8,212,600       485,000         8,697,600
 Norway - Ministry of Foreign Affairs                                        959,141               0        959,141
 New Zealand Ministry of Foreign Affairs & Trade (including
                                                                           1,000,000               0       1,000,000
 NZAID)
 Total                                                                   20,207,191    7,484,525        27,691,716




                                                            24
                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

     Stage 1: 2006 to 2010            Stage 2: 2010 to 2014
                                                                      Link to Intermediate
 Components’ Structure prior     Components’ Structure post to
                                                                           Outcomes
        to Restructuring                  Restructuring
Public Expenditure Management    A. Support to General           IO-1: General budget of the State
                                 Directorate of State Finances   is prepared in accordance with
       A.1 Planning, Budget      • Director General              the budget timetable based on
           Formulation and       • Budget Directorate            enhanced coordination, quality
       Budget Execution          • Treasury Directorate          and realism of line ministries’
                                 • Procurement Directorate       submissions, reflecting
       A.2 Financial             • Asset Management              government priorities and
           Management                Directorate                 medium term fiscal
           Information System    • Expenditure review Unit       sustainability.

                                                                 IO-2: Treasury and procurement
                                                                 Functions are managed
                                                                 efficiently and transparently,
                                                                 with due regard to accountability
                                                                 and quality of expenditure.

Revenue Administration and       B. Support to General           IO-3: Government revenue
Macroeconomic Management         Directorate of Revenue and      functions are administered
      B.1.Tax Administration     Customs                         efficiently and transparently,
             and Petroleum       • Director General              with improved revenue
      Revenue Collection         • Domestic Revenue              performance in line with
      B.2. Customs                   Directorate                 economic developments and
      B.3. Macroeconomic         • Petroleum Revenue             compliance.
             Management              Directorate
                                 • Customs Directorate

Program-wide Activities          C. Support to General           IO-4: Government policies and
       C.1. Professional         Directorate of Policy and       budget decisions are better
            Leadership, Work     Research                        informed by timely economic
            Ethics, Basic        • Statistics Directorate        analysis and projections based on
            Training, and        • Macroeconomic Directorate     reliable data.
            Performance          • Petroleum Fund Directorate
            Assessment           • Investment Policy and
       C.2. Accountability and       Analysis Unit
            Transparency in
            Public Financial
            Management

Support for Improvement in       D. Support to General           IO-5: Strengthened
Governance and Management        Directorate of Corporate        accountability, integrity and
                                 Services                        service culture is strengthened by
       Strategic, transparent    • Professional Development      improved performance of core
       and effective                 Program                     corporate support functions and
       management of MoPF        • Human Resources               enhanced sustainability of MOF
       and its resources.        • Internal audit                functions.
                                 • Legal
                                 • Information Technology


                                               25
    Stage 1: 2006 to 2010             Stage 2: 2010 to 2014
                                                                            Link to Intermediate
 Components’ Structure prior       Components’ Structure post to
                                                                                 Outcomes
      to Restructuring                    Restructuring
                                   • External communications
                                   • Management Development
                                   • Strategic Planning, Policy
                                     and Change Management

Program Implementation             E. Program Implementation Unit      IO-6: The Program is effectively
                                   • Advisor to Program                implemented through
    Effective implementation of        Implementation Officer          maintenance of operational
    the Program by the             • Financial Management              standards, monitoring and
    Administration and IT          • Procurement                       evaluation and regular reporting
    Directorate.                   • TA Performance                    on results.
                                       Management



Achievements under Stage 1:

a) Public expenditure management: FMIS, procurement, and treasury systems and processes have been
   simplified and strengthened, with an increased delegation of responsibilities to line ministries. This
   has improved efficiency and enabled a dramatic rise in budget execution — a chronic problem in the
   past and of critical concern during 2008. Execution of budgeted expenditure has risen from 49% in
   2006/07 to 80% in 2008. At the same time, transparency has improved through the reconciliation of
   MoF records with bank accounts, the extension of Free Balance to line ministries, putting payroll onto
   Free Balance, and quarterly budget execution reports published on the web. Of note is that this has
   promoted more active and effective public and parliamentary scrutiny of the budget process.

   With the assignment of multi-year planning responsibilities to the Ministry of Economy and
   Development (MoED) from 2007, there has been less direct support from the Program to this function.

b) Revenue administration and macroeconomic management: A detailed Customs diagnostic study
   was completed and now provides the basis for the reform and modernization of the Customs
   Directorate. The Program has supported a revision of the Customs Code and assisted with the
   implementation of the Automated System for Customs Data (ASYCUDA). Customs has benefited
   from strong management, despite very difficult working conditions following the destruction by fire
   of the Customs building, manuals and records. In the Domestic Tax and Petroleum Revenue areas, the
   use of the Standard Integrated Government Tax Administration System (SIGTAS) has improved, and
   a SIGTAS User Support Unit has been set up. Advisors have assisted national staff with desk audits
   to improve compliance and with tax reconciliations to promote transparency, and a concerted effort is
   under way to strengthen Petroleum Tax administration.

c) Program-wide activities: Support to IT has helped to provide a stable operating platform for
   government-wide IT applications and support services. In other areas, however, there has been less
   progress. Much of the support that had been envisaged for the corporate services area (human
   resource management, leadership strengthening, professional development, internal audit and FM
   strengthening) has been delayed, largely pending the outcome of current Ministry restructuring (see
   below). The Program has enabled the MoF to recruit much-needed audit and legal services, but
   internal capacity remains weak as MoF does not have national legal staff or qualified audit staff.




                                                   26
d) Support for improvement in governance and management: The Program actively supported the
   MoF to prepare and implement an organization change strategy and to develop a new Organic Law
   for MoF. This has now been approved, setting out the Ministry’s new organizational structure,
   mandate and objectives. This provides a legal basis for a comprehensive reform program, which
   includes the strengthening of systems and processes, management and staff, subsidiary legislation,
   institution building and infrastructure. The Program has supported the design and implementation of
   an open and transparent process for implementing the reorganization. This has resulted in the
   appointment of four Directors-General and six National Directors across MoF.

e) Program implementation: Over the past 18 months, the PIU has been successful in managing the
   considerable administrative load in delivering the Program, the finances of which are now managed
   on Free Balance. The PIU has also helped to re-establish a focus on capacity building through the
   development of capacity-building plans, which will be consolidated across the MoF over the coming
   months. A system for evaluating the performance of advisors is in place to monitor their contributions
   to the achievement of the Program objectives and to underpin performance management.


Achievements under Stage 2:

Component A: Strengthening Capacity in the General Directorate of State Finances

Significant progress has been made in State Finances.

In terms of administration, the consolidation of policy and research functions into the Directorate General
for State Finances reflects recognition that economic management is almost exclusively a matter of fiscal
policy in Timor-Leste, given the dominance of public spending in the non-oil economy.

In terms of policy, deliverables included: a 2014 state budget prepared almost exclusively by civil
servants; a Citizens Budget; implementation of Financial Management Information Systems upgrades;
improvements of the Transparency Portals (e.g. budget execution rates are now defined and included on-
line); strengthened control of state assets; improved governance of Autonomous Public Agencies through
an audit of their business processes and finances; increased support to line ministries; and completion of
cash flow and bank reconciliations.

The 2014 budget is smaller than the 2013 budget, which was itself smaller than 2012. This seeks to align
with spending capacity, which remains low in line ministries.

The Yellow Road workshop held in May 2013 to set the fiscal envelope for the FY14 budget was opened
to the public for the first time. The estimate was linked to policy priorities set out in the government's five
year plan, and subject to macro-economic objectives including long term fiscal sustainability (spending in
line with ESI and domestic revenue) and low and stable inflation. While the final budget presented to
Parliament in December 2014 had grown from May 2013, it was still well below the 2013 budget.

Budget execution rates have deteriorated, with 2013 showing particularly low rates in capital and
development spending. However, this also reflects that spending is less lumpy (e.g. as the generators for
the two power plants have now been procured).

FMIS upgrades are now handled out of a separate unit, headed by dedicated staff. These upgrades have
enabled improved reporting on expenditure (including better monitoring of virements) and revenue
mobilization. The Program has been critical in ensuring appropriate design and implementation of new
FMIS modules, including a Transparency Module that allows real time monitoring of spending and
revenue mobilization.


                                                      27
On Procurement, PFMCBP is now open again to providing direct support with the PIU adviser now
acting as the procurement adviser for the ministry as a whole.

On expenditure review, the World Bank has the approval of the Minister to work on an Infrastructure
PER in 2012. Work is now completed (May 2014).

On strengthening PFM in line ministries, there has been considerable work to improve coordination
between PFMCBP and TA support in the Ministries of Education and Health in particular. The World
Bank-supervised programs have now prepared PFM strengthening roadmaps.

The area of internal audit has now seen some progress. An international consultant has been appointed
within the Ministry, with direct lines of reporting to the Minister. One of the key issues that will need to
be addressed is that of mandate: the Office of the Inspector General in the PM's Office is proposing a role
for itself in internal audit that would overlap with Treasury.

In Summary: General Budget of the State is prepared in accordance with the budget timetable based on
enhanced coordination, quality and realism of line ministry submissions, reflecting government priorities
and medium-term fiscal sustainability. This outcome indicator is fully achieved evidenced by the
publication of a Citizens Budget; implementation of Financial Management Information Systems
upgrades and operational guidance; introduction of the Transparency Portals; strengthened control of state
assets; improved governance of Autonomous Public Agencies; increased support to line ministries; and
completion of cash flow and bank reconciliations. The FY13 budget was prepared with minimal support
from external TA. The budget documents are comprehensive, include highly relevant analysis and are
available to the public. They also reflect the government's policy priorities but there are some outstanding
issues relating to the realism of capital budget expenditure projections.

Treasury and procurement functions are managed efficiently and transparently with due regard to
accountability and quality of expenditure. Treasury reforms have advanced at a steady pace with intensive
support from external technical assistance. The basic payments and reconciliation processes are handled
by treasury staff with support and supervision from the technical advisors. Some of the core treasury
processes rely external TA, including the management of the payment process, the production of financial
statements and the management of the planned deconcentration process.

Rating: Satisfactory

Component B: Strengthening Capacity in the General Directorate of Revenue and Customs

In Revenue and Customs, there has been strong progress in stabilizing core tax administration functions;
improving the level of compliance; introducing petroleum tax audits; conducting capital gains tax
assessments; and strengthening customs clearance and post-clearance audit. DG Revenue and Customs
has made some progress in implementing the recommendations of the 2012 Customs Review mission,
notably in establishing a customs brokers association, ongoing training with the Canberra Customs
School, and revising the customs code. In addition a Time Release study showed an improvement in time
taken to clear port cargo. Together these measures supported improvements in several results indicators,
including: Reducing the non-oil fiscal deficit; improving revenue out-turns; and improving the ratio of
domestic tax to GDP.

The IFC has engaged in this area with a trade facilitation program. This can help keep up reform
momentum, as PFMCBP comes to a close.

Adviser support in this area has benefited from review. The team of consultants in Revenue is now
stronger; the team in Customs remains weak. The SMA essentially plays the role of a lead adviser in
Customs.

                                                    28
In summary: Government revenue functions are administered efficiently and transparently, with improved
revenue performance in line with economic developments and compliance. Significant improvements
have been made in strengthening revenue and customs administration and compliance procedures, with
considerable support from external assistance. Capacity gaps do remain in customs, mainly relating to
downstream operational functions, understanding of tax rules and in the rationalization of the customs
legislation.

Rating: Satisfactory

Component C: Strengthening Capacity in the General Directorate of Policy Analysis and Research

There has been good progress in DGPAR.

Government policies and budget decisions are better informed by timely economic analysis and
projections based on reliable data. Key recent achievements are: (a) New national accounts 2000-2011
published using the income and expenditure method (and value added until 2010); (b) analysis of sources
of economic growth; (c) analysis of inflation drivers and prospects; (d) preparation of a fiscal framework
and underlying long term growth model. Ongoing improvements to data sources for macro modeling and
analysis; (d) analysis and reporting on revenue performance. (e) preparation of the Timor-Leste Living
Standards Survey, that should begin in April 2014, and provide data for a full poverty assessment with
World Bank assistance.

The establishment this year of a Macroeconomic Working Group is a significant step towards evidence
based and coherent policy making across government, and testing whole of government economic policy
for fiscal sustainability and coherence growth.

A comprehensive program of training in the area of macro modeling, analysis and reporting has been put
together for domestic staff, and the DG has recruited graduate economists on a consultant basis with
support from the ADB. There have been improvements in forecasting both revenue and expenditure -
DGPAR has also participated in the preparation of the 2013 Debt Sustainability Analysis.

In summary: Government policies and budget decisions are better informed by timely economic analysis
and projections based on reliable data. Key recent achievements are: (a) New national accounts 2000-
2011 published using the income and expenditure method (and value added until 2010); (b) analysis of
sources of economic growth; (c) analysis of inflation drivers and prospects; (d) preparation of a fiscal
framework and underlying long term growth model;(e) ongoing improvements to data sources for macro
modeling and analysis; and (f) analysis and reporting on revenue performance. The establishment this
year of a Macroeconomic Working Group is a significant step towards evidence based and coherent
policy making across government, and testing whole of government economic policy for fiscal
sustainability and coherence growth.

Rating: Satisfactory

Component D: Strengthening Capacity in the General Directorate of Corporate Services

The DGCS has made progress in areas of high importance to MOF, in particular the Strategic Plan.

The coincidence of a number of initiatives that significantly strengthen MoF management should be noted,
including updated Annual Action Plans with key performance indicators to implement the MoF Strategic
Plan and the new government 5 year plan, MoF task and staff mapping exercises, a skills gap analysis,
and a formal process for identifying training needs, candidates and courses. Accountability, integrity and


                                                   29
service culture is strengthened by improved performance of core corporate support functions, and
enhanced sustainability of MoF operations. The DGCS has made progress in areas of high importance to
MOF, in particular the Strategic Plan. The coincidence of a number of initiatives that significantly
strengthen MoF management should be noted, including updated Annual Action Plans (AAPs) with key
performance indicators to implement the MoF Strategic Plan 2011-2030 and the new government 5 year
plan, MoF task and staff mapping exercises, a skills gap analysis, and a formal process for identifying
training needs, candidates and courses.

In summary: Accountability, integrity and service culture is strengthened by improved performance of
core corporate support functions, and enhanced sustainability of MoF operations. The DGCS has made
progress in areas of high importance to MOF, in particular the Strategic Plan. The coincidence of a
number of initiatives that significantly strengthen MoF management should be noted, including updated
Annual Action Plans (AAPs) with key performance indicators to implement the MoF Strategic Plan 2011-
2030 and the new government 5 year plan, MoF task and staff mapping exercises, a skills gap analysis,
and a formal process for identifying training needs, candidates and courses.

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Professional Development Program (PDP) was introduced by the Ministry of Finance as part of the
program restructuring exercise in April 2009 to package many of the various capacity development
initiatives identified in the initial Project Appraisal Document (2006). In January 2009, a Secretariat was
established, chaired by the Director General Corporate Services and including several heads of
department and three advisers.

PDP had an allocation of $4.0M at restructuring; the midterm conducted an extensive review of the
program in close collaboration with the Directorate of Corporate Services and the HR Advisor. A series
of recommendations and actions were agreed for the PDP, these recommendations were largely informed
based on analytical work and priority areas identified in the Bitte (former HR Advisor at MoF) report.
The PDP focused on four sets of capacity building and skills development activities, namely:
scholarships; foundation courses; customized courses and overseas study visits. Scholarships received the
largest allocation (51%), followed by customized training (24%) and foundation courses (22%).

Due to slow progress and challenges faced in its implementation; a reallocation of its resources went
towards the funding of extensions of Advisors’ contract during the restructuring of 2012. At project
closing, the PDP had spent US$2.83M with a significant share for the scholarship programs.

Some of the challenges faced during implementation:

(i)    Delayed formulation/implementation of the institutional strengthening and capacity building plan to
       guide an informed and targeted planning of training and capacity building activities under
       PFMCBP. The plan was developed and incorporated in the Strategic Plan of the Ministry of
       Finance, 2011 to 2030, but given the time remaining under the first extension of PFMCBP to July
       2011, many activities could no longer be budgeted and instead went under counterpart funding.
(ii)   Unclear mandate of the PDP Secretariat to promote the program;
(iii) Weak planning and monitoring methodologies for the PDP program as a whole which did not allow
      for timely actions and remedies to resolve issues;
(iv)   Posting of spending towards right category of expenditures due to high level of turnover staff at the
       PIU and non-existent handover notes;
(v)    Inadequate implementation support for this subcomponent.

Achievements under the PDP since program restructuring:


                                                     30
Following the midterm review findings, the MoF tasked the PDP Secretariat to undertake substantial
work on developing both general and technical English language courses, developing customised short-
course training to be provided by the University of Timor-Leste, support the ongoing capacity
development of the Information Technology Department and integrating training and development into
the staff planning processes. The PDP also piloted Basic Accounting Course with the assistance of the
PFMCBP Financial Adviser.

To date, the supplementary support provided by the MoF has resulted in the graduation of 29 civil
servants achieving diploma and master’s degrees.

Recent PDP Developments: The PDP has continued to function as the coordination body for all capacity
building activities in the Ministry including: training (both domestic and overseas); scholarship and, most
recently, the Junior Professional Program. All DGs are represented on the PDP and participate regularly
in discussions, particularly those of strategic importance to their respective area of concern. The principal
source of funding for staff capacity building activities is now the Human Capital Development Fund
(HCDF) that provides support for training, staff development and scholarship programs. It is worth noting
that the HCDF utilises Ministry/Government systems, which, while not perfect, provides for sustainable
development of robust operating procedures for the Ministry and Government.

The Ministry has now established a PFM Training Centre that is responsible for sourcing training
providers and coordinating the delivery of PFM training across the Civil Service, This includes support to
core-training priorities of the Ministry including the systematic rollout of the Free Balance Financial
Management System and the management of overseas training for Ministry staff. The PFM Training
Centre also provides operational management of the Young Professionals Program, a recent initiative by
the Ministry to recruit and provide professional development to alumni of the various scholarship
programs engaged by the Ministry.

The Human Capital Development Fund (HCDF) was created in 2011 as a government wide version of the
PDP, essentially ensuring the program's existence beyond PFMCBP. However, this also meant that
funding for scholarships and training shifted to the state budget. At the same time, failures in the project
and senior management of the PDP meant limited uptake. Apart from a highly successful scholarship
program, now providing graduate accountants to the MoF, foundation courses were neglected, depriving
civil servants of critical basic skills (e.g. basic numeracy). The creators of the PDP has not received
sufficient support from consultants or civil servants. In addition, there have been insufficient project
design and procurement skills to move ahead with new training programs.




                                                     31
Achievements to date for PDP activities funded under PFMCBP
                                          Spending at          Spending at                                          Specific Outputs and observations on achievements
     PDP Agreed Categories of                                                    Total Spending
                                         Stage 1: 2008        Stage 2: 2010                                                           and constraints
     Activities at Restructuring                                                     (US$)
                                            to 2009           to end project                                     Source: GoTL report on Capacity Building dated July 2014
All categories                                 $63K             $2,773K              $2,836K
Scholarships                                   $29K             $2,502K              $2,531K
                                                                                                      The following scholarships have been awarded:
- Masters (overseas studies)
- Undergraduate (overseas                                                                                  •    Supplementary Scholarships to 67 MoF staff who have now
    studies)                                                                                                    completed their Bachelor and Master’s degree in management,
- Undergraduate (in Timor-                                                                                      finance and accounting, in local and Indonesian universities.
    Leste)                                                                                                 •    67 full scholarship for Bachelor’s degree and 15 Master’s Degree.
                                                                                                                These students went to universities in Darwin and Adelaide,
                                                                                                                Australia, Jakarta, Indonesia, Bangalore (India), and UNTL (Dili-
                                                                                                                TL). Areas of study include finance, accounting, IT and statistics.
                                                                                                           •    9 scholarships for IT studies at Charles Darwin University in
                                                                                                                Australia. Six (6) of the IT students who were originally sent to India
                                                                                                                were re-awarded scholarships in this cohort of students 16.
                                                                                                           •    Supplementary scholarships between 2009 and June 2013, which
                                                                                                                include additional or partial support to help MoF staff complete their
                                                                                                                studies, were awarded to 173 MoF employees who enrolled to
                                                                                                                complete their degrees in universities in Indonesia and Timor-Leste.
                                                                                                      Four (4) scholars finished their studies in 2012/2013 and have since been
                                                                                                      integrated into the Ministry. This includes one (1) Master in Accounting, two
                                                                                                      (2) Business Administration and (1) Bachelor in Law from UNTL.
                                                                                                      To date, the supplementary support provided by the MoF has resulted in the
                                                                                                      graduation of 59 civil servants. This comprised 35 Bachelor awards and 24
                                                                                                      Masters degrees.




16
  Thirteen (13) IT students originally enrolled in India returned to Timor-Leste, before the completion of their qualifications, due to accreditation issues with the Institution concerned that
arose after the commencement of their studies. They were temporarily integrated in the MoF IT Department while awaiting further scholarship offers to be made.




                                                                                              32
                                 Spending at     Spending at                                  Specific Outputs and observations on achievements
  PDP Agreed Categories of                                       Total Spending
                                Stage 1: 2008   Stage 2: 2010                                                   and constraints
  Activities at Restructuring                                        (US$)
                                   to 2009      to end project                             Source: GoTL report on Capacity Building dated July 2014
OVERSEAS STUDY VISITS                               $68K             $68K
                                                                                  Staff nominated for overseas training (who were assessed by a panel from
                                                                                  NDHR and the PFM Capacity Building Centre) were required to meet the
                                                                                  following criteria: 1) the relevance of the training to their current work
                                                                                  experience; 2) their technical knowledge on the subject matter of the training;
                                                                                  3) knowledge and command of the language in which the training was to be
                                                                                  delivered.
                                                                                  The following Directorates successfully nominated staff as follows:
                                                                                      •    Customs: 17 staff (12 male/5 female)
                                                                                      •    Statistics: 23 staff (17 male/5 female)
                                                                                      •    Corporate Services: 1 staff (male)
                                                                                      •    State Finance: 13 staff (8 male/5 female)
                                                                                      •    Revenue: 2 staff (male)
                                                                                      •    Treasury: 1 staff (female)
                                                                                      •    Petroleum Management Unit: 2 staff (1 male/1 female)
                                                                                      •    g7+ Secretariat: 1 staff (female)
                                                                                  Recent knowledge exchange visits with participating candidates endorsed by
                                                                                  NDHR and PFM CB panel include amongst others:
                                                                                      •    Study visit to Canberra for the newly appointed NDMES to meet
                                                                                           with AusAID and central agencies;
                                                                                      •    Study visit to Sydney in relation to archives and records management
                                                                                           for the newly appointed archives and records management team (co-
                                                                                           shared with DFAT);
                                                                                      •    Mission to Indonesia to develop an MOU for the provision of
                                                                                           training,
                                                                                      •    Mission to Darwin, Sydney and Canberra to finalize MoU for
                                                                                           Customs;
                                                                                      •    Adviser accompanying Director General Customs to international
                                                                                           meetings in Brussels, supporting the contribution of the DG for
                                                                                           Timor-Leste.
                                                                                      •    Joint mission to Malaysia for DPMU, State Budget, National
                                                                                           Planning and World Bank on national development planning
CUSTOMIZED TRAINING                $33K             $80K            $114K          2011 to 2013: Customs Training Program, provided by the Centre for



                                                                            33
                                   Spending at     Spending at                                 Specific Outputs and observations on achievements
    PDP Agreed Categories of                                       Total Spending
                                  Stage 1: 2008   Stage 2: 2010                                                  and constraints
    Activities at Restructuring                                        (US$)
                                     to 2009      to end project                           Source: GoTL report on Capacity Building dated July 2014
-    Financial Management                                                            Customs and Excise from the University of Canberra. Approximately 210
-    Revenue and Customs                                                             members of the Customs participated in:
-    Statistics
-    Microsoft                                                                        ● 7 cycles of a 3 module Core Customs Training ;
-    CISCO                                                                            ● 2 Train-the-Trainer courses;
-    OTHER                                                                            ● 3 X 5 day Induction courses for new Customs recruits;
                                                                                      ● A series of Customs technical English courses
                                                                                    (developed and delivered by LELI);
                                                                                      ● A Drug Identification Course for Customs Officers;


                                                                                     2013: Critical, Creative Thinking course for 271 staff.
                                                                                     2013: Leadership management course for 55 staff appointed to
                                                                                            management positions under the new Organic Law.
                                                                                     2013: Media Training for members of the Media Unit.

                                                                                    Other initiatives worth noting provided through existing TA:
                                                                                      • 2011 to 2012: Audit training program, undertaken by Audit and Appeals
                                                                                        staff, with focus on revenue collections, registration and taxpayer
                                                                                        awareness.
                                                                                      • 2012: On-the-job development programs for managers of DN Domestic
                                                                                        Revenue, as part of the 2012 Domestic Tax work plans.
                                                                                      • 2013: Basic Financial Management Course was piloted with the
                                                                                        assistance of the PFMCBP Senior Financial Management Adviser.
                                                                                      • Dec 2008 to June 2011: PFMCBP supported training on Free Balance
                                                                                        through financing of 30 months of salaries and benefits for a full-time
                                                                                        FB Trainer
                                                                                      • Capacity Building Guidelines were prepared and provided to PFMCBP
                                                                                        advisers as part of their orientation. A number of organizational
                                                                                        development tools were developed by the PIU to assist the Ministry and
                                                                                        advisers in systematically assessing capacity development requirements
                                                                                        and preparing a capacity development plan. These have since been
                                                                                        updated and have been incorporated in to the Corporate Services
                                                                                        Manual.
FOUNDATION COURSES                   Costs           Costs            Costs         2012: General English course for 49 participants. Of these, 26 successfully
- English                          aggregated      aggregated       aggregated      completed the course. General English course conducted by INAP to 10



                                                                             34
                                    Spending at     Spending at                                      Specific Outputs and observations on achievements
    PDP Agreed Categories of                                        Total Spending
                                   Stage 1: 2008   Stage 2: 2010                                                       and constraints
    Activities at Restructuring                                         (US$)
                                      to 2009      to end project                               Source: GoTL report on Capacity Building dated July 2014
-    Numeracy                           with            with            with          participants, of which 6 completed the course. A third General English course
-    Other                          Customized      Customized       Customized       was offered to 18 participants, but was canceled due to desistance of the
                                   Training. See   Training. See    Training. See     majority.
                                   value above.
                                                    value above.    value above.      2012: English for IELTS training in India for the 13 IT scholars; all completed
                                                                                      the course successfully.
                                                                                      2012: Administration course for 30 staff.
                                                                                      2012: Computer course for 20 staff.
                                                                                      2013: General English language training for 72 staff in 2013.
                                                                                      2013: Portuguese Language Training for 39 staff.
                                                                                      2013: Basic Accounting training for 11 staff from Corporate Services.
PDP SECRETARIAT:                                      $123K             $123K         One PDP Officer, contracted for 36 months between 2011-2013
CONSULTANTS’ AND ADVISORY
                                                                                      Two PDP scholarship advisers contracted for a total of 64 months between
SERVICES
                                                                                      2008-2012
Note: The ICR mission was not able to obtain spending numbers for each category of expenditures, aggregate values are used instead. Overall, the
spending pattern has focused mainly on scholarships program: $2.5M. The consultants’ and advisory services for the PDP Secretariat were planned and
costed under Corporate Services during restructuring. But it is important to capture this spending under PDP for the purpose of understanding the overall
effectiveness of this subcomponent.

PDP Expenditures by year (US$)
      PDP Activities              2008 and 2009*        2010               2011               2012                2013             2014              TOTAL
Training and workshops                 62,771.00      828,411.59         958,471.58         794,104.30          24,647.00        44,627.00          2,713,032.47
Training                               33,460.00       16,119.05           5,422.00          48,820.00           9,864.00                             113,685.05
Scholarships                           29,311.00      812,292.54         953,049.58         736,254.75                                              2,530,907.87
Study tour                                                                                    9,029.55          14,783.00        44,627.00             68,439.55
Consultans services*                                   19,800.00          28,251.77          38,671.46          36,000.00                             122,723.23
TOTAL                                  62,771.00      848,211.59         986,723.35         832,775.76          60,647.00        44,627.00          2,835,755.70
Notes: *estimates based on information from GoTL report and IFR 2009.




                                                                              35
Component E: Program Implementation

Program management has been sustained overall in the last 12 months, and improved in specific areas
such as joining the project and MoF own M&E framework. The quality of procurement management has
improved over the past twelve months. All this is despite a gap in the first part of 2013 as the ministry
took the decision to replace the SPM. Processes, program reporting, and general coordination of advisers
have been strengthened. The PIU prepared an Annual Report 2012-13 which firmly linked program and
MoF results frameworks. This marked a substantial improvement on previous reporting.

In summary: The Program is effectively implemented through maintenance of operational standards,
M&E, and regular reporting on results. A dedicated PIU supporting the Directorate of Corporate Services
has proved to be key in advancing and supporting the PFMCBP. The project has disbursed close to 98
percent of project funds - thanks to the support services provided by the PIU. Another significant
achievement is that the PIU staff is now fully redeployed within the National Directorate of
Administrations. However, the PIU has not delivered fully on M&E and quality of reporting due to high
turnover of staff at critical phase of project implementation.




                                                   36
Original indicators and revised intermediate outcomes under restructuring
Original indicators                                         Proposed intermediate outcomes
Annual Combined Sources Budget, including Medium-            General Budget of the State is prepared in accordance
Term Fiscal Framework, reflects petroleum savings            with the budget timetable based on enhanced
policy and is consistent with sustainable growth and         coordination, quality and realism of line ministry
poverty reduction; line ministry budgets framed by           submissions, reflecting government priorities and
sector performance indicators.                               medium-term fiscal sustainability.
Budget execution improved as indicated by: cash              Treasury and procurement functions are managed
spending > 80% of cash allocations by and beyond             efficiently and transparently with due regard to
FY08.                                                        accountability and quality of expenditure.
Revenue performance improved as indicated by:                Government revenue functions are administered
periodic audits of petroleum companies; reduced              efficiently and transparently, with improved revenue
clearance time for Customs.                                  performance in line with economic developments and
                                                             compliance.
Accountability, integrity, and service culture               Government policies and budget decisions are better
strengthened as indicated by: adoption and                   informed by timely economic analysis and projections
implementation by MoPF of a mission statement and            based on reliable data.
agency codes of conduct; successful implementation of
MoPF complaints response function as evidenced by
annual report showing number and treatment of
complaints; expansion of internal audit function across
MoPF and in all program line ministries; improved
integrity of tax and customs personnel as evidenced by
the adoption of agency codes of conduct and annual
public perception survey; improved tax and customs
service delivery.
Transparency improved as indicated by: publication of       Accountability, integrity and service culture is
annual combined sources budget, quarterly budget            strengthened by improved performance of core
execution reports, annual audited accounts, and             corporate support functions, and enhanced sustainability
management letter, all in accessible form including at      of MoF operations.
the district level and to Parliament.
Sustainability improved as indicated by: recruitment of     The Program is effectively implemented, through
local staff, especially at levels 5-7; implementation of    maintenance of operational standards, monitoring and
performance assessment of staff and managers, with          evaluation, and regular reporting on results.
gradual reduction in international advisors and increase
in the responsibilities and duties performed by national
managers and staff.




                                                           37
               Annex 3: Summary PEFA scores and Economic and Financial Analysis

Components in PFMCBP are largely of a capacity-building nature, and, as such, it is difficult to quantify
rates of return for every aspect of each component. However, Components A (State Finances), B
(Revenue and Customs) and C (Policy and Research) have results that can be considered economic
benefits.

As noted, no economic appraisal was conducted during design. However, we attempt here to describe
some economic benefits in Timor-Leste in 2007-2013, attributed to strong economic management by the
Ministry of Finance, correlated with project activities.

             Table 1: Change between 2006 and 2013, selected indicators (US$ million)
                                                                   2006            2013
                Domestic revenue                                      40.9             149.0
                Domestic Revenue % of non-oil GDP                    8.8%              9.7%
                Non-oil fiscal deficit                                70.2             931.2
                Petroleum Revenue                                   611.9             2693.0
                Share of petroleum rents captured as revenues      26.5%              81.4%
                Petroleum fund                                     1347.0           14,951.9
                Non-oil GDP                                         462.6            1534.3*
                Total GDP                                          2823.7          6129.0**
        Source: GoTL, MoF, BB1 2010 and BB1 2014.
        Notes: *expected value, from BB1 2014. **forecasted value, from IMF Article IV 2013.

                 Figure 2: Distribution of PFMCBP budget by program component
                       (Actual amount paid by 31st March 2014, US$ million)


                                               E.PIU, 3.32

                                                           A. GDSF, 9.51


                                       D.GDCS, 15.46              B. GDRC, 8.44


                                                       C.GDPAR,
                                                         4.54



Examples of benefits by program component:

Component A: Support to general directorate of state finances:

Credibility of the budget has improved as budgets have been moderated towards spending capacity.
Capital spending projections (especially in Budget Book 1 for 2013 and 2014, i.e. as of 2012) have been
adjusted to reconcile with actual spending (low execution) and budget execution capacity.




                                                        38
                             Figure 3: Capital spending projections (US$ million)

                             1400
                                                                                                                    BB1 2008
                             1200
                                                                                                                    BB1 2009
                             1000
                                                                                                                    BB1 2010
                              800
                                                                                                                    BB1 2011
                              600
                                                                                                                    BB1 2012
                              400
                                                                                                                    BB1 2013
                              200
                                                                                                                    BB1 2014
                                0
                                                                                                                    Actual
                                     2007
                                            2008
                                                   2009
                                                          2010
                                                                 2011
                                                                        2012
                                                                               2013
                                                                                      2014
                                                                                             2015
                                                                                                    2016
                                                                                                            2017
While execution of the capital budget has faltered, budget execution in recurrent spending has been high
since 2009. But looking ahead, the Government plans to stabilize public expenditure in the following
years so that total does not grow above US$1.3 billion 17.


                           Figure 4: Recurrent spending projections (US$ million)

                            1400
                            1200                                                                                     BB1 2008

                                                                                                                     BB1 2009
                            1000
                                                                                                                     BB1 2010
                             800
                                                                                                                     BB1 2011
                             600
                                                                                                                     BB1 2012
                             400
                                                                                                                     BB1 2013
                             200                                                                                     BB1 2014
                               0                                                                                     Actual
                                    2007
                                            2008
                                                   2009
                                                          2010
                                                                 2011
                                                                        2012
                                                                               2013
                                                                                      2014
                                                                                             2015
                                                                                                     2016
                                                                                                             2017




Component B:Support to general directorate of revenue and customs:

Improved efficiency in petroleum tax audits has contributed to the growth of the Petroleum Fund.
In 2012, audit activities played a very important role and the revenues resulting from it represented 5% of
the fund value in 2012. Nominally, the Petroleum Fund increased by 21% to 1.6bn in 2012. 26% of this
was due to audit related activities in respect to the Bayu-Undan Audit.




17
   PEFA 2013 recognizes improved orderliness and participation in the annual budget process, due to an orderly annual budget
process and more active participation by the executive in the setting and approval of Budget ceilings.


                                                                                  39
                                                    Figure 5: Petroleum Fund in 2012

                                                                  PF in 2012, US$ 11775 million


                                                                                                          Due to audit
                                                                                                            related
                                                                                                          activities in
                                                                                                         respect to the
                                                                                                          Bayu-Undan
                                                                                                           Audit (US$
                                                                                                          640 million)




Domestic revenues in 2013 were almost 4 times bigger than in 2006. This represents a 10% increase in
the participation of domestic revenue in nominal non-oil GDP from 2006 to 2013. Customs collections
increased to USD 59m in 2012 from USD 47m the year before, or an increase of 26%.

                                   Figure 6: Evolution of domestic revenue (US$ million)

                                  180                                                                14
                                  160                                                                12                   domestic
                                  140                                                                                     revenue
                                                                                                     10
                                  120                                                                                     (US$
                    US$ million




                                  100                                                                8                    million)

                                  80                                                                 6    %
                                  60
                                                                                                     4                    domestic
                                  40
                                                                                                     2                    revenue
                                  20                                                                                      % non-oil
                                   0                                            0                                         GDP
                                    2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014



Component C: Support to general directorate of policy and research:

A better in-house macro-fiscal framework led to a strict fiscal envelope and budget, for greater fiscal
sustainability. It also improved the multi-year perspective in fiscal planning, expenditure policy and
budgeting.

                                            Figure 7: Non-oil fiscal deficit % non-oil GDP

                                   120

                                   100

                                    80

                                    60
                      %




                                                                                                                    non-oil
                                    40                                                                              fiscal
                                                                                                                    balance %
                                    20                                                                              non-oil GDP

                                        0
                                             2006

                                                    2007

                                                           2008

                                                                     2009

                                                                            2010

                                                                                    2011

                                                                                           2012

                                                                                                  2013




                                                                                   40
Public investment has made a large contribution to non-oil Economic growth. But the private sector needs
to contribute more, as public spending settles at a sustainable level.

                 Figure 8: Expenditure contributions to non-oil Economic Growth




                                  Table 2: Timor-Leste: Key Indicators
                           2007    2008    2009    2010    2011     2012   2013 f   2014f     2015f   2016f
Output, Employment and Prices
Real GDP                                   -6.7    -1.4    7.3      5.7    -3.2     -6.9      1.7     -2.1
 (% change y-y)
Real non-oil GDP (%       11.7     14.6    12.8    9.5     12       8.3    8.1      8         7.7     8.6
change y-y)
Consumer price index (%                    0.1     4.5     11.7     13.1   10.6     9.5       8.1     7.1
change y-y, annual
average)
Public Sector
Government revenues (% 75.4        80.8    62.6    64.9    66.5     69.1   59.7     63.6      60.9    63.4
GDP)
  Domestic Revenue          2.7      1.7     2.8     2.3    1.9      2.2     2.4     3.3       3.7     4.2
  Petroleum Revenue        72.6     79.1    51.3    55.3   59.7     62.9    53.4    56.1       53      55
  Grants                                                    4.9       4      3.9     4.2       4.2     4.2
Government expenditures    13.5     19.6    31.3    27     23.8     22.1    23.5    26.5      27.5    27.5
(% GDP)
Government balance (%      61.9     61.2    31.3    37.9   42.7      47     36.2    37.1      33.4    35.9
GDP)
Non-oil government                  -18     -20     -17     -17      -16     -17        -19    -20     -19
balance (% GDP)
Non-oil government                  -85     -80     -78     -88      -74     -65        -57    -52     -44
balance (% non-Oil
GDP)
Public sector debt (%        0       0       0       0          0     0      0.7        5.6   11.1     16
GDP) /1
Financial Markets
Domestic credit (%         -9.8     1.9     1.1     5.9    21.1     20.5    21.2    21.7        ..      ..
change y-y)
Short-term interest rate    15      12.3    11.2    11      11      12.2     …          …      …       …

                                                    41
                             2007    2008   2009    2010    2011    2012    2013 f   2014f   2015f   2016f
(% p.a.)
Exchange rate (US$/US$,          1    1      1       1       1       1        1       2       …       …
eop)
Real effective exchange                     105.2   102.3   105.6   118.1    …        …       …       …
rate (2005=100) (period
average)
  (% change y-y)                                    -2.8     3.2    11.8     …        …       …       …
Memorandum items:
Gross domestic product        1808   3035   3299    4216    5797    6300    6129     5673    5748    5730
(US$ million at current
prices)
   Non-oil GDP                 494    635    827     934    1128    1355    1615     1901    2171    2513
   Oil GDP                    1313   2400   2472    3282    4669    4945    4514     3772    3577    3217
Source: IMF
Notes: f = forecast; /1 External
Summary PEFA Scores




                                                    42
Figure 9: Summary PEFA scores




             43
           Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                             WB Unit /             Responsibility/
         Names                         Title
                                                              Other                  Specialty
 Lending/Grant Preparation
 Elisabeth Huybens      Country Manager                    EASPR           Country Manager
                        Regional Governance
 Helen Sutch                                               EASPR           Team Leader
                        Adviser
 Rosa Alonso            Sr Public Sector Specialist        EASPR           Team Leader
 Adam Nelsson           Consultant                         EASPR
 Amanda E. Van Kirk     Consultant                         EASPR
 Alison Vale Gillies      Consultant                       EASPN           Consultant
 Allison Berg             Operations Officer               OPCCE           Operations Support
 Amanda Green             Research Analyst                 EASPR           Analytical Support
 Bruce Pollock            Consultant                       Australian TF
 Charles Sampford         Consultant                       Australian TF
                                                                           Development Cooperation,
 Colin Hicks              Consultant
                                                                           Ireland
 Cristiano Nunes          Procurement Specialist           EAPCO           Procurement
 David Chandler           Sr. FM Specialist                EAPCO           Financial Management
 Jan Morgan               Consultant                       AusAID          Consultant
                                                           World Bank
 Laura Bailey             Senior Operations Officer                        for Fragile States at OPCS
                                                           Consultant
 Lynn Yeargin             Senior Program Assistant         EASFP           Administrative/Ops Support
 Nicholas Drossos         Consultant                                       Financial Management
                          Senior Procurement
 Nurul Alam                                                EAPCO           Procurement
                          Specialist
 Mark Minford             Consultant                       AusAID
                                                           DFID funded
 Peter Boulding           Consultant
                                                           consultant
                                                           DFID funded
 Peter Brooke             Consultant                                       Public Finance Management
                                                           consultant
 Roch Levesque           Senior Counsel                    LEGAM           Legal Counsel
 Shilpa B. Pradhan       Consultant                        PRMPS           Consultant
 Tuan Minh Le            Economist                         PRMPS           Public Finance
 At the Implementation stage
                         Country Manager / Team
 Antonio S. Franco                                         EACDF           Task Team Leaders
                         Leader
 Douglas John Porter     Economist                         EASPR           Task Team Leaders
 Habib Nasser Rab        Senior Economist                  EASPN           Task Team Leaders
 David John Hook         Governance Specialist             EASPN           Task Team Leaders
 Hans Anand Beck          Senior Economist                 EASPN           Task Team Leaders
 Stephen Paul Hartung     Financial Management Sp.         EASFM           Financial Management
 Kylie Coulson            Sr. FM Specialist                EASFM           Financial Management
 David Whitehead          Sr. FM Specialist                EASFM           Financial Management
 Robert J. Gilfoyle       Sr. FM Specialist                GGODR           Financial Management
 Jacinda                  Analyst                          EASPN           Financial Management


                                                      44
                                                           WB Unit /            Responsibility/
        Names                        Title
                                                             Other                Specialty
Maria Isabel da Silva    Operations Analyst               EACDF        Financial Management
Olivio Euclides Dos
                         Program Assistant                EASDF        Financial Management
Santos
Bisma Husen              Sr Procurement Spec              EASRP        Procurement
Evelyn Villatoro         Sr Procurement Spec              EASR1        Procurement
Joao Jose Augusto
                         Procurement Specialist           EASPN        Procurement
Gomes
Manuela da Cruz          Procurement Specialist           GGODR        Procurement
Annabella Scof           Consultant                       World Bank   Consultant
Anne Morant              AusAID consultant                AusAID       PFM Specialist
Bryan Christopher Land   Lead Mining Specialist           SEGM2
Bryan J. Gorddard        Consultant                       World Bank   Consultant
Catherine M. Anderson    World Bank Consultant            EAS          Operations
Christine Wong           Operations Officer               EASPR        Implementation / CB of PIU
Colin Hall               WB Consultant                    EASPN        Consultant
Cyrus Talati             Senior Economist                 EASPR        Economist
Gaurav Datt              Economist                        GGODR        Consultant
Gerard McLinden          Senior TF Spec                   GTCDR        Trade Facilitation
Graham Scott             WB Consultant                    EASPN        PFM Specialist
Guida P.C. Freitas       Program Assistant                EACDF        Administration
Harinder Jassal          IT Specialist                    EACNF        Information Technology
                                                          WB
Heather Baser            CB Specialist                                 Capacity Building
                                                          Consultant
Jose Mousaco             Operations Analyst               EASPN        Ops support
Juan Carlos Mendoza      Manager Portfolio                EACNF        Portfolio & Operations
Kanthan Shankar          Manager Portfolio                EACNF        Portfolio & Operations
Kishor Uprety            Senior Counsel                   LEGAM        Legal Counsel
Lars C. Lund             Consultant                       EASDE        Consultant
Lynn M. Gross            Program Assistant                GFMDR        Administration
Lynn Yeargin             Sr. Program Assistant            GGODR        Administration
Melinda Good             Chief Counsel                    LEGES        Legal Counsel
Mihaly Kopanyi           Snr. Infrastructure Sp.          GWADR        Consultant
Nina Masako Eejima       Senior Counsel                   LEGES        Legal Counsel
Paul Keogh               Governance Specialist            EASPR        AusAid Consultant
Raul Bernadino           IT Specialist                    EACDF        Information Technology
Rick Fisher              Senior Specialist                World Bank   Tax Administration
Rideca R C Duarte        Team Assistant                   EACDF        Adm & Operations
Rob Taliercio            Lead Economist                   EASPR        Lead Economist
Robert Johann Utz        Lead Economist                   EASPR        Lead Economist
Roch Levesque            Senior Counsel                   LEGAM        Legal Counsel
Shilpa B. Pradhan        Senior PS Specialist             GGODR        Public Sector
Shireen Mahdi            Economist                        EASPR        ICR preparation mission
Stefanie Stallmeister    Senior Operations Officer        EACDF        Ops support
Stephen John Morris      Director of Custom               World Bank   Consultant


                                                     45
                                                       WB Unit /           Responsibility/
        Names                         Title
                                                         Other                 Specialty
Vivek Suri                Lead Economist              EASPR        Lead Economist
William Paterson          Consultant                  EASPN        Consultant
William McCourt           Sr.Public Sector Sp.        GGODR        Public Sector


At the Completion Stage
                                                                   Team Leader / ICR Primary
Hans Anand Beck           Senior Economist            GMFDR
                                                                   Author
Christine Wong            Operations Officer          GGODR        ICR Primary Author
Kim Allan Edwards         Economist                   GMFDR        ICR – Economic Analysis
Naysa Brasil Teodoro      Research Assistant          EASPN        ICR – Economic Analysis
Rideca Duarte             Team Assistant              EACDF        Administrative Support
Mildred Gonzalez          Program Assistant           GPVDR        Publishing Support




                                                 46
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
         Stage of Project Cycle                                               USD Thousands (including
                                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
    FY2005                                                36.44                        $         149,506
    FY2006                                                28.63                        $         188,132
    FY2007                                                11.74                        $          55,755
    Total                                                 76.81                        $         393,394
Supervision/ICR
    FY 2006                                               1.00                         $           7,396
    FY 2007                                              13.86                         $         116,504
    FY 2008                                              39.38                         $         243,425
    FY 2009                                              64.73                         $          68,163
    FY 2010                                              57.79                         $         102,866
    FY 2011                                               4.51                         $          21,748
    FY 2012                                               2.30                         $          13,340
    FY 2013                                               2.00                         $          15,909
    FY 2014                                               4.33                         $          27,157
Total                                                   189.90                         $         616,508


                                                         Staff Time and Cost (TF Budget Only)
         Stage of Project Cycle                                               USD Thousands (including
                                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
    FY 2005 – FY 2007                                        0                              $ 0.0
Total                                                                                       $ 0.0
Supervision/ICR
    FY 2009                                              18.89                               $ 177,147
    FY 2010                                              40.80                               $ 244,653
    FY 2011                                              32.89                               $ 207,233
    FY 2012                                              38.14                               $ 253,826
    FY 2013                                              57.10                               $ 400,109
    FY 2014                                              34.50                               $ 234,600
                                    Total               222.32                              $ 1,517,569
Note: These expenses capture the cumulative spending under the two child funds created to support the
implementation of PFMCBP i.e. TF091230 (BETF AAA) and TF092247 (BETF Program Administration). The
AAA resources have been utilized to deliver the following studies and analytical work: (i) MoF Strategic Plan 2011-
2030; (ii) Diagnostic Trade Integration Study; (iii) Procurement Analysis; (iv) Poverty Profile; (v) Public
Expenditure Review of Infrastructure and (vi) Timor-Leste Living Standards Survey.




                                                        47
               Annex 5: List of International and National TA funded under PFMCBP

            National and International Advisers funded under PFMCBP in stages 1 and 2

                                             Stage 1: Nov 2006 to Jan              Stage 2: Feb 2010 to Jan
       PFMCBP Components
                                                       2010                                  2014
                                           International     National            International     National
                                                TA         Consultants                TA          Consultants
 A. State Finances                                 14               7                    19               4
 B. Revenue and Customs                             9               0                    12               2
 C. Policy and Research                             5               0                     9               1
 D. Directorate of Corporate
                                                     10                 0                  8                    5
 Services
 o       Professional Development
                                                                        2                                       2
 Program
 E. Program Implementation Unit                       7                 7                 13                   16
                           TOTAL                     45                16                 61                   30
Note: The number of TA reduced from 45 in the 1st stage to 18 at the closure of the project in January 2014.

National and International Advisers funded under PFMCBP over its project life

                                                                      National                 International
 A. State Finances                                                        10                          25
 B. Revenue and Customs                                                    2                          18
 C. Policy and Research                                                    1                          10
 D. Directorate of Corporate Services                                      8                          15
 E. Program Implementation Unit                                           20                          16
                                                     TOTAL                41                          84

Types and number of TA Contracts funded under PFMCBP over its project life cycle*
                                                                                           PFMCBP
                                    Position Title                                                         National
                                                                                          Component
Advisor on Assets and FMIS                                                                    A
Accounts and Payments Technical Adviser                                                         A
Adviser on Coordination & Performance Assessment of Advisors (ACPAA)                            E
Advisor on Network Management                                                                   D
Advisor to Program Implementation Officer (PIO)                                                 E
Applications Management Advisor                                                                 D
Asset Management Adviser (International)                                                        A
Assets and Property Adviser                                                                     A
Budget Advisor (Post 1)                                                                         A
Budget Advisor (Post 2a)                                                                        A
Budget Expenditure Review Adviser                                                               A
Budget Expenditure Review Adviser                                                               A
Customs Adviser                                                                                 B
Domestic Revenue Audit Adviser (International)                                                  B
Domestic Revenue Audit Adviser (International)                                                  B
Economic Policy adviser-International                                                           C


                                                          48
                                                                  PFMCBP
                                     Position Title                          National
                                                                 Component
Executive Adviser to the Minister of Finance                         D
Finance Officer -Accountant                                          E          x
Finance Officer -Bookeeping                                          E
Finance Officer -Bookeeping                                          E          x
Finance Officer -Bookeeping                                          E          x
Financial Adviser (International) - Autonomous Public Agencies      A
Financial Adviser (International) - Autonomous Public Agencies      A
Financial Adviser (International) - Decentralization                A
Financial management Adviser-International                          E
Financial management Adviser-International                          E
Financial management Adviser-International                          E
Financial management Adviser-National                               E
Financial management Adviser-National                               E           x
Financial management Adviser-National                               E           x
Financial management Adviser-National                               E           x
Financial Management Officer                                        E           x
FMIS Trainer                                                        A
HR and Capacity Building Advisor                                    E
Human Resource Officer (National)                                   D           x
Human Resource Officer (National)                                   D           x
Human Resource operations Adviser (International)                   D
Internal Audit Adviser                                              D
Internal Audit Adviser                                              D
International Legal Adviser (Commercial and Business)               D
Lead Customs Adviser                                                B
Lead Domestic Revenue Adviser                                       B
Lead Domestic Revenue Adviser                                       B
Lead Domestic Revenue Adviser                                       B
Lead Procurement Adviser                                            A
Legal Adviser - International                                       D
Legal Advisor on Banking, Loans & Grants                            D
Macroeconomic Advisor                                               C
Macroeconomic Advisor                                               C
Macroeconomic Advisor                                               C
Macroeconomic Advisor                                               C
National Accounts Adviser                                           C
National adviser -Application management                            D           x
National Adviser Decentralization                                   A           x
National Adviser Decentralization                                   A           x
National Adviser Decentralization                                   A           x
National adviser -Network Management                                D           x
National Assistant to Legal Adviser (Legislative Drafting)          D           x

                                                        49
                                                            PFMCBP
                                     Position Title                    National
                                                           Component
National Petroleum Revenue Audit Adviser                      B           x
National Petroleum Revenue Audit Adviser                      B           x
ODI Fellow -                                                  C
ODI Fellow -                                                  C
ODI Fellow -                                                  C
ODI Fellow -                                                  C
Parliamentary Liaison Adviser                                 D
PDP Officer                                                  PDP          x
PDP Scholarship Adviser                                      PDP          x
PDP Scholarship Adviser                                      PDP          x
Petroleum Fund Analyst (National)                             C           x
Petroleum Tax Audit Advisor                                   B
Petroleum Tax Law Adviser                                     B
Petroleum Tax Revenue Adviser                                 B
PFM Adviser                                                   D
Planning & Expenditure Review Adviser                         A
Procurement adviser                                           E
Procurement Adviser- International                            E
Procurement Adviser- International                            E
Procurement Adviser-Client Management                         A
Procurement Adviser-Reform                                    A
Procurement Advisers-National (Post 1)                        A           x
Procurement Advisers-National (Post 2)                        A           x
Procurement Advisers-National (Post 3)                        A           x
Procurement Advisers-National (Post 4)                        A           x
Procurement Advisers-National (Post 5)                        A           x
Procurement Advisers-National (Post 6)                        A           x
Program Administration Support Staff                          E           x
Program Administration Support Staff                          E           x
Program Management Support Officer                            E           x
Program Procurement Technical Staff                           E           x
Program Technical Support Staff                               E           x
Program Technical Support Staff                               E           x
Quality Assurance Adviser                                     E           x
Recruitment Officer                                           E           x
Revenue Collection Adviser                                    B
Revenue Collection Adviser                                    B
Revenue Collection Adviser                                    B
Revenue Legal Adviser                                         B
Revenue Legal Adviser (International), DGRC                   B
Senior Adviser, HR and Capacity Development                   D
Senior Budget Adviser                                         A

                                                      50
                                                                                               PFMCBP
                                      Position Title                                                        National
                                                                                              Component
Senior Budget Adviser                                                                            A
Senior Financial Assurance Adviser                                                                 A
Senior Legal Advisor on Business and Contract                                                      D
Senior National Adviser Decentralisation                                                           A           x
Senior Program Manager                                                                             E
Senior Program Manager                                                                             E
Senior Program Manager                                                                             E
SIGTAS User Support Adviser                                                                        D
SMA for D G Corporate Services                                                                     D
SMA on Policy Analysis                                                                             A
SMA on Revenue and Customs                                                                         B
SMA on Revenue Services                                                                            B
SMA on State Finances                                                                              A
SMA on State Finances                                                                              A
STA FreeBalance Trainer                                                                            A
State Assets, Provision Consolidate Manual                                                         A
Tax Law Consultant                                                                                 B
Taxation Compliance Adviser                                                                        B
Translator -Interpreter                                                                            E           x
Translator -Interpreter                                                                            E           x
Translator-Interpreter                                                                             E           x
Translator-Interpreter                                                                             E
Translator-Interpreter                                                                             E           x
Translator-Interpreter                                                                             E
Treasury Adviser-Internal Processes Civil Service Accounting                                       A
Note: *repetition of position tittles translates into numbers of advisers contracted under that position.




                                                           51
Annex 6 : Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                           52
              Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introductory comments

The Ministry has reviewed the content of the ICR and welcomes the opportunity to make comment. The
Ministry notes that there are many documents and reports that have been prepared over the life of the
PFMCBP that provide evidence of the changes and developments that can be attributed to the program,
working together with the Ministry staff. A key issue for the Ministry has been the successful working
relationships that have been developed with donor partners and, within the Ministry, with the PFMCBP
Project Implementation Office (PIU) and the advisors who have worked closely with their counterparts.
During the period of funding under the PFMCBP, there have been many Government-led developments.
The Ministry has been meeting its obligations as the central agency with responsibility for the financial
management for the Government, working to meet external demands, as well as improving its internal
processes. The PFMCBP demonstrated flexibility in terms of supporting the Ministry’s core functions,
changing needs and change management initiatives.

The Ministry also recognizes that a number of the recent developments have built on the gains made
under the PFMCBP.

The important role of the PIO and the PIU

The appointment of the Project Implementation Officer (PIO), overseeing the program planning and
implementation, working together with PIU has provided a sound approach to management and
monitoring and reporting for the program. The embedding of the PIU personnel into the relevant National
Directorates in Corporate Services was an excellent strategy, providing capacity building, while at the
same time ensuring that the PIU systems and procedures were operating in accordance with requirements.

Professional and career development

Engagement with the PFMCBP has been of benefit to the professional development and career
progression of those senior Ministry officers who have been appointed as the PIO and from within the
PIU. This has included the former PIO who is now the Vice-Minister and the next PIO who was funded
for a placement with the World Bank in Washington for six months in 2014. The National Directorate for
the Management of External Support (NDMES) is now benefitting from former experience in the PIU,
noting that the intention of PFMCBP was always to increase the impact of donor harmonization.

Using government systems – the New Deal

The Ministry recognizes that the PFMCBP and the PIU have focused, wherever practicable, on the use of
government systems, and in doing so have built confidence and skills in Ministry staff, while at the same
time identifying gaps and areas for improvements to procedures. This approach, which is clearly stated in
the New Deal, is the overarching policy framework for the Ministry in terms of its partnerships with
donors. One example was the transfer of the MOF scholarship program from the Professional
Development Program funded by PFMCBP to being funded under the Government’s Human Capacity
Development Program.
The establishment of NDMES in 2013, within the General Directorate of Corporate Services, was to
coordinate, manage and monitor all external support to the Ministry, and develop and maintain good
working relationship with current and potential donor partners. In establishing NDMES, the intention
was not to set up an internal MOF structure to replace the PFMCBP PIU, but rather to provide the
management focus for all external support, working with the relevant Directorates within the Ministry to
manage the component parts of the programs in terms of their core business. This reinforces the New
Deal approach to work within the government’s systems. NDMES is the custodian of the PFMCBP files
and provides advice to the Corporate Services Directorates on lessons learned from PFMCBP.

                                                   53
Increased capacity building and teamwork

Evidence has been provided in the ICR of the areas where increased capacity building has resulted in less
reliance on advisers. The Ministry acknowledges the work of the Ministry officials and advisers who
have worked together to achieve this outcome. The Ministry is focusing upon teamwork and targeted
capacity building that is based on the assessment of skills and training plans.
The newly formed PFM Training Centre is providing the focus for capacity building and is responsible
for approval of study tours, receiving reports and ensuring presentations to CCMF. This more strategic
approach to capacity building (including formal and accredited training) and institutional strengthening is
building on the good work of PFMCBP.
PFMCBP coordinated the ODI Fellows Program, provided practical support. The ODI program is now
operating through DFAT. These highly qualified young professionals added (and continue to add)
significant value to the outcomes achieved in the Ministry.

The flexibility of advisers – a mix of capacity building and implementation

The Ministry has welcomed the flexibility of senior advisers who have provided capacity building when
working with their counterparts, but have also stepped into implementation roles when required. For
instance in April 2013, some advisers in the Ministry were appointed as Coordinators, when there were no
suitable candidates who could be appointed, at that time. This was seen to be a temporary solution, but
has been providing effective transition. The Ministry is focusing on the development of staff within the
Ministry and supporting development of others who can take up specific technical and professional roles
when they return from scholarships. A recent innovation has been the Junior Professionals Program
where the Ministry has placed returning scholarship awardees into relevant positions within the Ministry.
The Ministry notes that all advisers are role models for Ministry personnel. This is a form of capacity
building, demonstrating good work practices and applying rules, procedures and abiding by Ministry
protocols. The Ministry Guidelines 01/2013/VGC/MF identify differing categories of advisers, relating
to the specific needs, including: strategy and/or policy advisers; skills development advisers; technical
advisers; and, technical professionals. PFMCBP has highlighted the importance of the additional
supplementary skills possessed by good advisers which should be assessed at recruitment stage,
including: flexibility; good communication skills; team work; capacity building and training skills.
PFMCBP redesigned the work plan and quarterly report formats for advisers in 2013, to require them to
directly link their TOR and work priorities to Ministry priorities and be able to report upon the impact of
their work. This approach has been adopted by the Direct Budget Support Program (DBS), directly
focusing the effort of advisers on the highest priorities and requiring evidence of their capacity building
work.

Changing arrangements for CCFM

Initially PFMCBP advisers routinely attended the CCFM meetings,. But in 2013, the Minister determined
that this was a Ministry management mechanism and that advisers would only be invited, if for some
reason their specific input/expertise was required. This provides evidence of Ministry managers taking
responsibility for their own governance and management and reporting mechanisms, not simply relying
on advisers.

Institutional strengthening

There were many institutional strengthening initiatives that were supported by PFMCBP, building on the
capacity building initiatives identified with the advisers working with their counterparts including: skills
transfer; training and development; and, mentoring and day-to-day hands on support to individuals and
team. Priority was also given to the development of systems and procedures to underpin the good
governance and management of the Ministry. Procedures provide the operational scaffolding for the
Ministry. This ensures consistency and puts in place systems and procedures that form the basis of

                                                    54
training and skills development. The procedures will be regularly reviewed and improved. PFMCBP
advisers identified opportunities and contributed to institutional strengthening initiatives.

For instance, a range of institutional strengthening and capacity building strategies were implemented in
the General Directorate of Revenue and Customs (later the General Directorate of Customs). An MOU
was signed with Australian Customs and Border Protection Service (ACBPS) entering into mutually co-
operative arrangements aimed at capacity development of Timor-Leste Customs staff. The Adviser also
facilitated extensive training for Customs staff from the Centre for Customs Study, University of
Canberra. On-the-job training was provided to the Integrated Border Posts (IBPs). Additional support
was provided by the Adviser in relation to alleged cases of corruption.
Another example is the development of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in Corporate Services.
PFMCBP supported the Coordinator HR in the task analysis and preparation of job descriptions.

The requirement from PFMCBP to provide justification for participants in study tours and reporting on
return, now forms the basis of the improved systems that will be managed through the PFM Training
Centre. The SOPs being developed in the General Directorate of Corporate Services, provide the basis
for work flow analysis and for regular training and amendment when processes need to change.
Uploading these documents to the MoF intranet provides a ready source of information for staff. The
Budget Manual provides a tool for the budget processes, as does the manual that was prepared for the
autonomous agencies. The PFM Training Centre provides the focus for these developments to be
socialized and implemented, rather than just filed away.

MoF planning framework – focus on performance management and accountability

As noted in the ICR, one of the major benefits through PFMCBP has been the development and
implementation of the MOF Strategic Plan, the 5 Year Plan and the associated KPIs that outline the
activities and the performance required. From this work, supported by PFMCBP, the ongoing
institutional priorities and performance of the Ministry is being managed and measured. This planning
framework enables the Ministry to analyze its priorities against risk and impact, keeping the focus on the
strategic objectives and minimizing ad hoc and disconnected approaches. The Ministry’s planning
framework is open and transparent, providing other line Ministries and civil society with information on
priorities and implementation timelines.
Through the DBS joint monitoring, which is building on lessons learned from PFMCBP, the bi-annual
validation processes monitor progress and, challenges, recommend realistic modifications to KPIs and
provide feedback to the management team through a transparent scoring system takes account of
complexity, risk and impact.
The new structure for the Ministry, put in place in early 2013, with the official ceremony in May 2013, is
supported by Ministerial Diplomas that state the responsibilities for each Directorate and Office. The
planning framework, developed with support of PFMCBP, now sets standards (KPIs) and integrates
organizational responsibilities and performance with staff TORs and performance.

Alignment of PFMCBP ‘Results Matrix’ with MoF structure and planning framework

The Ministry appreciated the alignment of the Ministry’s planning framework with the PFMCBP results
matrix to list achievements, not only against the PFMCBP’s documentation but also against MOF
priorities that had emerged from new Organic Law and the restructure. This also supported the
preparation of adviser work plans and quarterly reports, enabling them to target the Ministry’s priorities in
a more effective way.

Economic Policy
In March 2013, a new PFMCBP Economic Adviser commenced work in the Economic Policy Directorate
and a detailed work plan and new key performance indicators were drafted. Before the end of PFMCBP,
the following major activities were undertaken:

                                                     55
•   Quarterly inflation reviews and templates and supporting documents were drafted
•   Government Finance Statistics Bulletins were drafted and published, together with supporting
    worksheets and mappings from the Government’s COA
•   A long term fiscal sustainability model was programmed and used to undertake a fiscal sustainability
    analysis
•   A work plan was drafted for programming a new economic forecasting model based on the IMF’s
    financial programming approach.

A recent report has been released by the Ministry entitled Timor-Leste Economic Stability Report (9 June
2014). This report was developed with the support of the former PFMCBP adviser, building on the work
been undertaken in that Directorate during the period of PFMCBP. In providing such reports, the Ministry
is increasing transparency ad scrutiny of the analytical information on the economy of Timor-Leste.

Budget and expenditure analysis

PFMCBP was successful in building the capacity of the national budget office and gradually increasing
the responsibilities of local staff. The number of advisers was gradually decreased from to one (1) only in
early 2013 and to zero (0) by the end of PFMCBP. A short term adviser was contracted in 2013 to
prepare a Budget Manual that has been now translated into Tetun. The activities of the budget office can
be divided in five main areas: budget formulation and organisation; budget execution; management of the
performance budgeting system; and, analysis of expenditure.

Regarding budget formulation, initially advisers had a very hands-on role in organising meetings, drafting
the budget circular, entering data and drafting the budget books. Over time, as capacity was built by
observation and learning by doing, local staff took responsibility for arranging all meetings, collating data
and organising the production of the budget books. By the middle of 2013, the entire budget formulation
process (with the exception of drafting budget book) had been taken over by local staff.

Regarding budget execution, initially advisers assisted reviewing transfer requests and entering them onto
the system. By 2013, this work was being undertaken entirely by local staff with advisers only involved in
policy and legal issues around particular transfer requests.

Concerning management of the PB system, advisers initially had a very hands-on role. By 2012, advisers
were overseeing and undertaking quality control of the system but were not logging onto the system every
day. By early 2013, advisers were liaising with Free Balance regarding improvements to the system and
new reports, but day-to-day management was undertaken by local staff. By 2014 these functions had been
entirely taken over by local staff.

Expenditure analysis was originally undertaken by external advisers. This function took the longest to
handover as it is more difficult for officials with limited academic qualifications to learn analytical tasks
than it is to learn process/management tasks. In 2011, a detailed expenditure review course of 4 weeks
was provided to officials. By 2012, officials were drafting expenditure review reports with advisers and
by 2013 this function was entirely handed over to local officials.

PFMCBP was successful in maintaining or increasing the quality of work as functions were handed over
to local staff. More specifically, in 2014, the PEFA Assessment (externally validated) rated the quality of
budget documentation as “A” – the highest grade available.

Improved procurement processes

PFMCBP supported the improvement in MoF procurement processes and the contribution of the Ministry
to the development of the Omnibus Procurement Law and Standard Bidding Documents. This has now

                                                     56
resulted in the more recent development of Contract Forms and Standard Operating Procedures. This is
evidence of effective capacity building and institutional strengthening through PFMCBP, not only
benefitting MOF, but also all line agencies.

The current MOF and DBS procurement and contract management systems are benefitting from the
lessons learned from PFMCBP and the World Bank. The Ministry appreciated the workshops by the
World Bank procurement experts for MOF and line ministry staff on procurement, and welcomed the
model proposed by the World Bank that standard world-wide processes should be revised to address local
situations in Timor-Leste. A World Bank workshop provided information on Standing Offer Agreements
supported the MOF’s implementation of an improved approach to ongoing procurement of stationery, fuel
and catering.

During 2013, the World Bank’s changed procedures that delegated NOL approvals to the Timor-Leste
Office, retained the level of compliance that was required, but resulted in faster decisions.

The Ministry’s procurement plans are developed through submissions and justifications and the
Permanent Commission for the Recruitment and Selection of Advisers and Professionals (PCRSAP) that
was formed by Ministerial order in late 2013. This ensures processes and decisions are approved as
complying with all requirements. This staged approach builds on PFMCBP procedures, reflecting the
procurement processes and the World Bank’s NOL approvals that ensured compliance. This approach is
replicated for goods and services through the Permanent Commission for Quotations and Tender (PCQT).
By having these two Permanent Commissions, the transparency and accountability of decision-making
and monitoring of compliance is increased.

Communication and engagement

The Budget Books provide accurate information for line ministries and civil society, as do the
Transparency Portal and provision of reports and information on the Ministry’s website (www.mof.tl).

A specific example of a customer service model is the new ‘one stop shop’ – SERVE – that brings
together domestic revenue information and registration of tax payers, together with front office functions
for business operations from the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Justice. The National
Directorate of Domestic Revenue (NDDR) of the General Directorate of Revenue formed a project,
designed and supported by PFMCBP advisers. New forms support the implementation the four Phase TIN
re-registration project for all categories of tax payers. The goal is to correct errors and outdated
information on the system and ensure in-business taxpayers are properly registered for all of the types of
tax for which they are liable. Phase 1 is complete, Phase 2 is ongoing. In Phase 3, taxpayers will be given
the opportunity to see and correct all arrears and non-lodgements on their accounts. In early 2015, Phase
4, the automated Certificate Dividas (CD) program designed by PFMCBP Advisers and programmed by
C2D will be implemented. This automation will “automatically” increase taxpayer compliance with tax
laws and the collection of domestic taxes by maximizing the use of systemic controls. Every time a
request is submitted taxpayers whose TIN is not eligible for a CD from the automated system will be
referred to Collection, where staff (to be trained in the next months), will guide them through the actions
to resolve these arrears and non-lodgements. With systemic controls in place, taxpayers, who have
arrears or non-lodgements on their TIN, will be automatically identified when they request a CD and
resolution will require that they contact NDDR, rather than NDDR Collection staff trying to find them.
This is a major achievement supported through PFMCBP and continuing under the DBS program.

Integrating with other donor funded programs

PFMCBP has worked closely with the Direct Funding Agreement Program (DFA) and AusAID (now
Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade), participating in its regular management meetings
during 2013 and in the planning and for its absorption into the new DBS Program in 2014. PFMCBP’s

                                                    57
shared lessons learned, templates and procedures during 2013. Advisers in the Ministry have been funded
under State Budget, DFA and PFMCBP. During 2013, PFMCBP supported an approach to eliminate
potential silo effects on day-to-day work, teamwork and the achievement of Ministry priorities.

PFMCBP supported the transition from PFMCBP to DBS. PFMCBP commenced the process of
developing a list of ‘Frequently Asked Questions’ relating to ends of contracts and transition, as well as
providing meeting/workshops for advisers on transition and what was expected of them prior to the
closure of PFMCBP. The End of Assignment Report template was improved to provide more
information for counterparts and more direct connection to the Ministry’s KPIs.

Lessons learned from PFMCBP

The Ministry notes that lessons learned from PFMCBP have been included in the ICR and recognizes that
every program will result in lessons learned and opportunities for improvement.
The Ministry notes that the Mid Term Review of PFMCBP addressed emerging issues, refocusing
PFMCBP on the performance of the Ministry, rather than its earlier wider scope to work with line
ministries too. The PFMCBP’s Mid Term Review simplified the results matrix with more strategic
indicators. Although its relationship to the previous structure was complex, the realignment through the
PFMCBP Annual Report 2012-13 assisted in providing the direct linkages.

Further development needs

The Ministry acknowledges that there continues to be areas for further development. These have been
noted in the ICR and also discussed in other PFMCBP reports, and in reports from the DBS joint
monitoring missions. The MOF planning framework makes it very clear which areas need new
interventions and/or continued support. The Ministerial Guidelines set the rules for the way in which
priorities for adviser support are identified and approved.

The Ministry now has coordinated engagement with donor partners, eliminating ‘quick fixes’ and ad hoc
arrangements, and aligning priorities for support to the planned priorities and assessments of need. As
already stated, the support to the Ministry from donor partners is within the framework of the New Deal,
ensuring all activities are using government systems which will enhance sustainability.

The Ministry looks forward to continued engagement with the World Bank, in particular through the
AAA Program.

In Summary

In summary, the Ministry acknowledges the significant contributions made by PFMCBP to the
effectiveness and efficiency of the Ministry in the development of capacity of Ministry staff and of
systems and procedures that now provide the basis for continued review and improvement. The Ministry
is aware that it is because of these developments, the donor partners are confident to build on gains made
to date and support the Direct Budget Support Program that will continue to strengthen the Ministry.




                                                   58
              Annex 8 : Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The Cofinanciers of the PFMCBP did not provide written comments on the program, however their
comments and feedback have been summarized in paragraph 7 (b).




                                                59
                              Annex 9 : Results Framework analysis




Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Capacity in the Ministry of Finance strengthened for prudent, effective and accountable planning and
management of public finances to promote growth and poverty reduction.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                               Values (from                           Achieved at
  Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                approval                            Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                               documents)                            Target Years
                Institutional Development and Capacity Building Plan implemented and ongoing needs
Indicator 1 :
                identified.
                                                                                 Staff mapping
                                                                IDCBP            analysis completed
                                                                established as a and used to
                IDCBP implemented in part
                                                                sustainable and determine skills gaps.
                through MoF reorganization
                                                                government       PDP evolved into the
Value           and merit-based
                                                                wide approach government wide
quantitative or appointment process.
                                                                to identifying Human Capital
Qualitative)    Agreed it will be finalized
                                                                and overcoming Development Fund.
                as part of Strategic Plan
                                                                skills gaps      PFM center
                process to December 2010.
                                                                among civil      operational and merit
                                                                servants.        based recruitments
                                                                                 implemented.
Date achieved 06/03/2010                                        01/31/2014       01/31/2013
                Met.
                The IDCBP is considered the precursor to the Government Wide Human Capital
                Development Fund (HCDF). Based on its success, the IDCBP evolved beyond the MoF
                into the government wide Human Capital Development Fund, which is now a formal
                part of the state budget, and managed by the Ministry of Education. In the MoF the
                HCDF meets training needs, including through a new PFM training center. These needs
                are identified through a staff, task, and capacity mapping exercise completed this year
                under the project.
Comments
(incl. %        More specifically, an Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Plan was
achievement)    developed and incorporated in the Strategic Plan of the Ministry of Finance, 2011 to
                2030. Subsequent work led to the development of an operational plan for the Ministry
                in terms of its 5 Year Plan 2012 to 2017. This Plan included specific key performance
                indicators for each work unit in the Ministry and this has been the basis of monitoring
                the reform program that included capacity building initiatives. In addition to the Key
                Performance Indicators (KPIs) adopted under the Ministry’s 5 Year Operational Plan,
                revised management responsibilities have been implemented to make Directors General
                (DGs), National Directors (DNs) and Heads of Offices/Units (HoO/HoU) accountable
                for the activities and outcomes of their respective work units.


                                                  60
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original
                                          Target Values       Formally
                                                                             Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value          (from       Revised Target
                                                                            Completion or Target Years
                                             approval          Values
                                           documents)
                  Budget: prepared with three-year fiscal forecasts, submitted to Parliament 45 days
Indicator 1 :     before the end of the current fiscal year, and approved before the start of the new fiscal
                  year.
                  2010 Budget
                  submitted on time as
                  per Budget and          Budget
                  Financial               execution
                                                                          Multi-year estimates of
                  Management Law.         improved as
                                                                          expenditure and revenue
Value             Strengthen quality of indicated by:
                                                                          prepared based on macro
(quantitative     forward estimates.      cash spending
                                                                          framework. 2011-2014 budgets
or Qualitative)   Multi-year budget       >80% of cash
                                                                          submitted to parliament 45 days
                  estimates but no top allocations by
                                                                          before end of fiscal year.
                  down process driven and beyond
                  by projected multi      FY08.
                  year fiscal aggregates.

Date achieved     06/03/2010                              01/31/2014       11/26/2013
                  Met.

Comments          Multi-year estimates of expenditure and revenue prepared based on macro framework.
(incl. %          FY11-FY13 budgets submitted to parliament 45 days before end of fiscal year, except
achievement)      2012 budget delayed due to elections. FY11 and FY12 budgets approved prior to start
                  of fiscal year and but FY13 budget approved two months late due to elections. The law,
                  on which this indicator is based, provides for delays in an election year.
                  Projected non-oil fiscal deficit <90% of non-oil GDP for the 2010 central government
Indicator 2 :
                  budget and <80% of non-oil GDP for the 2011 central government budget.
                  Reduction in non-oil
                                                                           Non-oil fiscal deficit as a % of
                  deficit (100% of non-
                                                                           non-oil GDP in 2010 = 71%
                  oil GDP) following
                                                                           Non-oil fiscal deficit as a % of
Value             moderation in
                                                                           non-oil GDP in 2011 = 81.3%
(quantitative     spending growth for
                                                                           Non-oil fiscal deficit as a % of
or Qualitative)   2009 and 2010 State
                                                                           non-oil GDP in 2012 = 78.5%
                  Budgets.
                                                                           Non-oil fiscal deficit as a % of
                                                                           non-oil GDP in 2013 = 98%
Date achieved     06/03/2010                              01/31/2014       12/31/2013
                  Partially met. While dropping to roughly 80% and below 2011 and 2012, the deficit
Comments
                  increased to 98% of non-oil GDP based on a downward revision of estimated 2013 non-
(incl. %
                  oil GDP. Much of the volatility in this indicator stems from volatility and revisions to
achievement)
                  the non-oil GDP figure.
Indicator 3 :     Aggregate revenue and expenditure outturn at >=80% of budget in the last two years.
Value             Revenue outturn is                                       Expenditure outturns for FY11 =
(quantitative     over 90% in 2009,                                        84% and in FY12 = 66%.
or Qualitative)   compared to around                                       FY13=66%

                                                     61
                                             Original
                                           Target Values   Formally
                                                                         Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value           (from      Revised Target
                                                                        Completion or Target Years
                                             approval       Values
                                            documents)
                  75% in 2008.
                  Expenditure outturn in                                     Overall (including petroleum)
                  2009 is close to 90%.                                      Revenue outturns for
                                                                             FY11=140%, FY12 = 194%,
                                                                             FY13=100.6%

Date achieved     06/03/2010                               01/31/2014        12/31/2013
                  Partially met.

                  Revenue outturn systematically exceeding targets. Volatility is due to petroleum
                  revenue. Production levels and prices are hard to predict, hence the best practice
Comments
                  sovereign wealth fund. The ration with domestic revenue alone is: Non-oil Petroleum
(incl. %
                  Revenue outturns for FY11=101%, FY12 = 103%, FY13=102%
achievement)
                  Expenditure outturn in FY12 below 80%, and remaining below, albeit closer to, 80% in
                  2013. Execution rate on recurrent spending has been FY10=93%, FY11=88%,
                  FY12=92%, FY13=87%
                  Quarterly publication of budget execution reports within two months of the end of the
Indicator 4 :
                  quarter.
                  All quarterly reports
Value             in 2009 being                                          All quarterly reports in 2013
(quantitative     prepared and                                           published within two months of
or Qualitative)   published on time.                                     the end of the quarter.

Date achieved     06/03/2010                               01/31/2014        10/29/2013
                  Met.

                  The transparency portal reports fiscal data and execution in real time (e.g. execution
Comments          rates by all classifications), and with greater accessibility of reports (including full data
(incl. %          downloads).
achievement)
                  All quarterly reports between 2010-2013 prepared and published on time but recent
                  reports presented only in Portuguese making them less accessible to Tetum speaking
                  citizens.
Indicator 5 :     Daily reconciliation of government bank accounts using FMIS.
                                                                        Bank reconciliations of the
                                                                        Treasury Bank reconciliation of
                  Full reconciliation of
                                                                        the Treasury Single Account
Value             accounts 2005-09
                                                                        (TSA) carried out within two
(quantitative     $850mn in receipts
                                                                        weeks of the close of each
or Qualitative)   and $800mn in
                                                                        month. Government accounts in
                  payments.
                                                                        commercial banks not
                                                                        reconciled.
Date achieved     06/03/2010                            01/31/2014      12/31/2013
Comments          Partially met.
(incl. %
achievement)      MoF responsibilities met. MoF FMIS and internal processes are able to conduct daily

                                                      62
                                             Original
                                          Target Values      Formally
                                                                             Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value            (from     Revised Target
                                                                           Completion or Target Years
                                             approval         Values
                                           documents)
                  reconciliation, but do not have a Central Bank electronic counterpart payment reports.

                  Central Bank responsibilities, beyond MoF and Project control will be complete once
                  electronic payment systems installed in CB.

                  Publication of annual audited financial accounts within 30 days after its presentation to
Indicator 6 :     the Prime Minister (or within 30 days after the end of parliamentary recess, should it be
                  closed on the date the report is delivered to the Prime Minister)
                                                                          In 2010 the gap between
                                                                          receipt of audited FS by
                                                                          parliament and Gazette
                                                                          publication was less than 30
                                                                          days, but in 2011 and 2012 it
                  Annual Audited                                          was about a month and a half
                  Accounts for 2008 are                                   (i.e. more than 30 days).
Value
                  published as required
(quantitative
                  though with some
or Qualitative)
                  delay because of                                        Audited accounts for 2010
                  change in auditors.                                     published on 4 November 2011
                                                                          Audited accounts for 2011
                                                                          published on 11 December
                                                                          2012.
                                                                          Audited accounts for 2012
                                                                          published in November 2013.
Date achieved     06/03/2013                             01/31/2014       12/31/2013
                  Not Met.

                  Project indicator measures time (target 30 days) between Parliamentary submission of
                  the Financial Statements (FS) to Prime Minister and Official Publication. PEFA
                  indicator measures time between end of Financial Year (FY) and publication.
Comments
(incl. %          In 2010 the gap between receipt of audited FS by parliament and Gazette
achievement)      publication was less than 30 days, but in 2011 and 2012 it was about a month
                  and a half (i.e. more than 30 days).

                  More broadly, audited statements are prepared and submitted to Parliament, although
                  with delay. Delays are caused by late submission by the Ministry of Finance to the court
                  of auditors, as well as delays in assessment there.
                   Improving results from public perception surveys, for each Directorate, of efficiency,
Indicator 7 :
                  effectiveness, ethics and integrity.
                  In 2010, first survey                                  Unpublished results of a survey
                  by Asia Foundation                                     by a local think tank, find year
Value
                  shows a poor public                                    on year improvements in the
(quantitative
                  perception of                                          perception of ethical behavior in
or Qualitative)
                  Customs, slightly                                      the customs Directorate General,
                  better for Revenue.                                    and wider interactions with

                                                    63
                                          Original
                                        Target Values    Formally
                                                                        Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value        (from      Revised Target
                                                                       Completion or Target Years
                                          approval        Values
                                         documents)
                                                                     government officials, notably at
                                                                     the Port.
Date achieved     06/03/2010                          01/31/2014     12/30/2013
                  Met.
Comments
(incl. %          While not published, the Ministry has reacted strongly to these survey findings,
achievement)      including engaging to improve training and regulation of customs brokers, and
                  undertaking a repeat port cargo time release study.
Indicator 8a :    Increasing domestic tax collections as a % of non-oil GDP.
                                                                         Domestic tax collection as share
                                                                         of non-oil GDP in 2010 = 5.4%
                  In 2009, domestic tax                                  Domestic tax of non-oil GDP in
Value
                  was 9% of non-oil                                      2011 = 7.0%
(quantitative
                  GDP, an increase                                       Domestic tax of non-oil GDP in
or Qualitative)
                  from 8% in 2007.                                       2012 = 7.3%
                                                                         Domestic tax of non-oil GDP in
                                                                         2013 = 9.5%
Date achieved     06/03/2010                             01/31/2014      12/31/2013
Comments          Met.
(incl. %
achievement)      The increasing trend measured from 2010-2012 is evidence that this indicator is met.
                  Additional revenue collected from Petroleum Revenue compliance activities (difference
Indicator 8b :
                  between submission and collection)
                                                                      Between 2010 and 2012, $300m
Value                                                                 additional petroleum revenues
(quantitative     N/A                                   N/A           were collected based on tax
or Qualitative)                                                       assessments and audits of
                                                                      company submissions.
Date achieved     06/03/2010                            01/12/2013    01/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Met.
achievement)
                  Improving average time taken to clear green line Customs declarations – from time of
Indicator 8c :
                  entry lodgement with customs to the issue of a delivery advice by customs.
Value
                                         47.4 hours
(quantitative     No measurement                                        30.1 hours average
                                        average
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/03/2010            June 2011                       November 2013
Comments
(incl. %          Met
achievement)
                  National accounts published by the Statistics Directorate and three staff trained as
Indicator 9 :
                  national accounts specialists by July 2011.
Value             Source data for                                         National accounts published for
(quantitative     national accounts                                       the period 2001 - 2012 based on

                                                    64
                                           Original
                                         Target Values    Formally
                                                                         Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value        (from      Revised Target
                                                                        Completion or Target Years
                                           approval        Values
                                          documents)
or Qualitative)   being established and                               improved expenditure and
                  efforts under way to                                business activity statistics. Three
                  appoint staff. SD                                   staff members, trained on basic
                  have set April 2011 to                              elements of the national account
                  publish national                                    compilation. However, this
                  accounts and GDP                                    activity still needs significant
                  estimates.                                          external support given its
                                                                      complexity.
Date achieved     06/03/2010                           01/31/2014     04/30/2014

                  Partially Met. Met, but with delay since the target deadline of 2011).
Comments
(incl. %
                  An additional (since end 2013 reporting) staff member has returned from a statistics
achievement)
                  scholarship in Indonesia to work on National Accounts bringing the total count to three
                  trained staff.
                  Statistics Work Plan agreed by MoF and other stakeholders, with implementation plan
Indicator 10 :
                  agreed and funding secured by end-2010
                                                                        The annual SWP is being
                  Key elements of SWP                                   implemented which includes the
                  being implemented                                     release dates for trade, CPI,
Value
                  (HIES, BAS and                                        financial and other economic
(quantitative
                  APS). Additional                                      data. The Statistics Directorate
or Qualitative)
                  funding secured from                                  does not have a multi-year
                  other donors.                                         schedule of planned statistical
                                                                        and survey activities.
Date achieved     06/03/2010                            01/31/2014      12/31/2013
                  Met.

Comments          The National Directorate of National Statistics has been elevated to a Directorate
(incl. %          General of National Statistics. A Statistics Work Plan (including specific survey
achievement)      calendar) has been prepared that is more realistic than previous. It is embedded in the
                  Ministries Annual Action Plan, and is fully funded from a combination of the state
                  budget and support from Australia, the World Bank and other donors.
                  Macroeconomic framework sets annual budget ceilings starting in 2009, with four staff
Indicator 11 :
                  able to update and interpret the framework by July 2011
                  A macro framework
                  has started to set the
                  annual budget
                  ceilings. The model                                      Macro framework developed
                  is gradually being                                       and is being used to establish
Value
                  updated and refined.                                     fiscal ceilings and revenue
(quantitative
                  At this stage it seems                                   envelope since 2011.
or Qualitative)
                  unlikely that four staff                                 Government staff is not able to
                  will be able to update                                   fully manage the macro model.
                  and interpret the
                  framework by July
                  2011.

                                                    65
                                            Original
                                          Target Values    Formally
                                                                          Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value          (from      Revised Target
                                                                        Completion or Target Years
                                            approval        Values
                                           documents)
Date achieved     06/03/2010                            01/31/2014     01/31/2014
                  Partially met. Two
Comments          staff currently able to
(incl. %          update and interpret
achievement)      the framework, but
                  only since 2013.
                      • 75% of leadership and management positions rated as sufficient and above in
                  performance;
Indicator 12 :
                      • 75% of Grade B and C position rated as occupied with qualified staff;
                      • 75% of Grade D and E position rated as occupied with qualified staff.
                                                                     Staff review and revisions led to
                                                                     retaining and hiring high
                                                                     performing manager. Systematic
                  Appointment of
                                                                     evaluation of managers (both
                  Grades A-B
Value                                                                current and potential) led to
                  completed.
(quantitative                                                        replacement of a number of
                  Performance
or Qualitative)                                                      senior managers and
                  management system
                                                                     appointment of all managers and
                  being developed.
                                                                     coordinators on performance
                                                                     contracts containing KPIs
                                                                     against 5 Year Operation Plan.
Date achieved     06/03/2010                          01/31/2014 01/31/2014
                  Met (exceeded):

                      •   All managers received rating of satisfactory (C) or above in performance
                          assessment in November 2013. This follows a drive to appoint and retain based
                          on merit. Systematic evaluation of managers (both current and potential) led to
                          replacement of a number of senior managers and appointment of all managers
                          and coordinators on performance contracts containing KPIs against 5 Year
                          Operation Plan.
Comments              •   Recruitment of all Grade B and C undertaken under the supervision of the DG
(incl. %                  Corporate Service. To ensure qualified: hiring is against job description for the
achievement)              position; client department represented on selection panel, all new appointees
                          undergone systematic induction training, and early performance assessment of
                          staff against responsibilities in job description.
                      •   Recruitment of all Grade D and E undertaken under the supervision of the DG
                          Corporate Service. To ensure qualified: hiring is against job description for the
                          position; client department represented on selection panel, all new appointees
                          undergone systematic induction training, and early performance assessment of
                          staff against responsibilities in job description.

Indicator 13 :    5 qualified staff appointed to the audit unit and at least 3 audit reports issued.
Value                                                                        Unit established and staffed. 80
(quantitative     No progress to date.                                       audits undertaken (University,
or Qualitative)                                                              Port,
Date achieved     06/03/2014                               01/31/2014        01/31/2014


                                                     66
                                           Original
                                         Target Values   Formally
                                                                       Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value         (from      Revised Target
                                                                      Completion or Target Years
                                           approval       Values
                                          documents)
                  Met.
Comments          New Organic Law established the Office of Inspection and Audit headed by the
(incl. %          manager at the equivalent level of Director General, supported by 4 staff (2 x Grade C,
achievement)      1 x Grade D, 1 x Grade E). Audit Plan was prepared and approved by the Minister. 80
                  audits undertaken over 2011-13 and presented to Parliament.
Indicator 14 :    3 qualified staff appointed to the legal unit and at least 10 legal opinions issued.
                  Limited progress to
                  date -- difficulty in
Value             finding suitably                                           Unit Established and staffed.
(quantitative     qualified staff. The                                       150 legal opinions delivered in
or Qualitative)   Program has provided                                       2013 alone.
                  important in-line
                  function.
Date achieved     06/03/2010                               01/31/2014        01/31/2014
                  New Organic Law established the Office of Legal Support headed by a manager at the
                  level of Director General. Fully staffed. A PFMCBP National Adviser was appointed
                  as the Acting Coordinator, pending appointment of a qualified Unit Head. The Office of
                  Legal Support currently has 2 additional national staff. PFMCBP supports two
Comments          additional international legal advisers support operations. Commercial companies are
(incl. %          also providing resident pro-bono commercial law advice.
achievement)
                   The Office of Legal Support has provided in excess of 150 legal opinions in 2013, and
                  issued 210 formal pieces of legal advice.

                  The unit has become de facto legal unit for the government.
Indicator 15 :    80% of IT cases logged have been resolved.
Value              No accurate figures
                                                                          90% of IT cases resolved within
(quantitative     on response time for                        -
                                                                          24 hours.
or Qualitative)   IT cases
Date achieved     06/03/2010                             01/31/2014       01/31/2014
                  Met.
Comments          New Organic Law established the IT Unit. 90% of IT cases resolved within 24 hours.
(incl. %          All remaining issues resolved on a case-by-case basis, mostly within 48 hours.
achievement)      Accurate log of IT cases not available at time of preparation of this report. There are
                  two national PFMCBP advisers in the IT Unit.
                  Improvements in all
                  aspects of program
Value
                  implementation                                          All project supervision ratings
(quantitative                                                 -
                  though more work                                        are rated satisfactory.
or Qualitative)
                  needed on FM, M&E,
                  and reporting.
Date achieved     06/03/2010                             01/31/2014       01/31/2014
Comments          Met.
(incl. %          Satisfactory ratings across all program implementation indicators.
achievement)



                                                    67
                        Annex 10 : List of Supporting Documents



Project Documents of the World Bank
    Project Appraisal Document: Planning and Financial Management       February 2006
        Capacity Building Program, Report No. 33803-TP
    Project Paper (first restructuring Level 1)                         February 2010
    Mid Term Review Mission Report                                          June 2010
    Restructuring Paper                                                     May 2011
    Restructuring Paper                                                  October 2012
    Implementation Status and Results Reports, Sequence 1-10

Other World Bank Reports
    Timor-Leste Repeat Public Expenditure and Financial                         2014
      Accountability (PEFA) Assessment 2013
    Strengthening PFM in Post conflict Countries: Lessons for PFM               2012
      Practitioners and Country Programming Staff
    Public Financial Management Reforms in Post-Conflict Countries -            2012
      Synthesis Report
    Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio (QALP-1),                       2008
      Independent Evaluation Group
    Timor-Leste Country Program Evaluation 2000-2010; Independent               2011
      Evaluation Group

International Monetary Fund Reports
     Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste: Public Financial              November 2010
       Management—Performance Report
     IMF Article IV Staff Report                                                2013

Documents of the Government of Timor-Leste
    Timor-Leste Budget Book 1 2014                                              2014
    Ministry of Finance Strategic Plan 2011-2030
    Ministry of Finance Annual Report 2012
    ICR background paper: Update on Capacity Building in the                July 2014
     Ministry of Finance, Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste




                                            68
Annex 11 : MoF Organizational Structure




                  69
The revised structure implemented in April 2013




                      70
71
