 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14895

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 03/23/2016

               Country: Timor-Leste
             Project ID: P092484                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Planning And                 Project Costs (US$M):                      37.27                31.75
                         Financial
                         Management
                         Capacity Building
                         Program
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                        7.00                 7.48
      Sector Board:      Public Sector               Cofinancing (US$M):                       25.10                24.32
                         Governance
          Cofinanciers: Australia, EC, New           Board Approval Date :                                03/21/2006
                        Zealand, Ireland                      Closing Date:           07/10/2011          01/31/2014
                        Norway
         Sector(s):     Central government administration (95%); Sub-national government administration (5%)
         Theme(s):      Administrative and civil service reform (29%); Public expenditure; financial management and
                        procurement (29%); Tax policy and administration (14%); Other accountability/anti-corruption
                        (14%); Macroeconomic management (14%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Judyth L. Twigg           Robert Mark Lacey      Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Financing Agreement (p. 4), the project's objective was "to support the Recipient's Ministry of
    Planning and Finance, its agencies, line ministries and district entities involved in financial management to
    strengthen planning, budgeting, public expenditure management and revenue administration with emphasis on
    efficiency, effectiveness, accountability, integrity, service culture, and transparency." The Project Appraisal
    Document (PAD, p. 9) states the objective slightly differently: "sustainably strengthened planning, budgeting,
    public expenditure management and revenue administration for growth and poverty reduction, with emphasis on
    efficiency, effectiveness, accountability, integrity, service culture, and transparency." In keeping with IEG/OPCS
    guidelines for differing statements of a project's objectives, this Review will evaluate achievement of the
    objectives as expressed in the Financing Agreement.

    At a February 2010 restructuring, the project's objectives were revised to "strengthen capacity in the Ministry of
    Finance for prudent, effective and accountable planning and management of public finances to promote growth
    and poverty reduction" (Program Paper, p. 3).

    The revised objectives narrowed the scope and focus of the project, and therefore this Review will perform a split
    rating. At the time of restructuring, US$ 7.31 million of Bank funds and US$ 4 million of Recipient-Executed Trust
    Funds (RETF) (out of US$ 31.75 million actual total financing), or 35.6%, had been disbursed.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 02/19/2010

c. Components:

   The project originally contained five components:

   A. Public Expenditure Management (appraisal, US$ 15.46 million; actual at restructuring, US$ 2.17 million). This
   component was intended to strengthen the expenditure side of public financial management, including planning,
   budget formulation, and budget execution. Relevant agencies were to receive capacity building through two
   subcomponents, one focusing on skills, knowledge, systems, processes, attitudes, and behaviors, and the
   second on upgrading and integrating information technology (IT) systems into one single Financial Management
   Information System (FMIS). Activities were to cover a range of agencies, including not only key Ministry of
   Planning and Finance (MoPF) agencies, but also the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry; Ministry of
   Education and Culture; Ministry of Health; Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals, and Energy Policy; and
   Ministry of Public Works, including at the district level.

   B. Revenue Administration and Macroeconomic Management (appraisal, US$ 9.61 million; actual at
   restructuring, US$ 2.15 million). This component was intended to strengthen the revenue side of public financial
   management and the macroeconomic management functions of the MoPF. Subcomponents focused on capacity
   building in the MoPF institutions involved in revenue collection (the East Timor Revenue Service (ETRS),
   Petroleum Tax Division, and Customs Service) and in economic policy, modeling, and forecasting (the
   Macro-Economy and Tax Policy Unit).

   C. Program-wide Activities (appraisal, US$ 7.05 million; actual at restructuring, US$ 0.08 million). This
   component was intended to enhance the cross-cutting skills and knowledge, systems and processes, and
   attitudes and behaviors that underpin a professional work ethic, integrity, civil service standards, communication
   and information flows, basic skills, and human resource functions.

   D. Support to Improve Governance and Management (appraisal, US$ 2.30 million; actual at restructuring, US$
   US$ 1.82 million). This component was intended to ensure that the MoPF and its resources were managed in a
   strategic, transparent, and effective fashion, through training in leadership, management, and specific technical,
   supervisory, and regulatory skills for the Minister and Vice-Ministry of Planning and Finance and their offices.

   E. Program Implementation (appraisal, US$ 2.84 million; actual at restructuring, US$ US$ 0.92 million). This
   component was intended to support program administration through advisory support and training.

   At the February 2010 restructuring, the components were revised as follows to support only the restructured
   Ministry of Finance (MoF) and match its new organizational structure. Direct support to line ministries,
   autonomous agencies, and district entities was dropped, and the original indicative training plan was replaced
   with a more flexible professional development program.

   A. Strengthening Capacity in the General Directorate of State Finances (restructuring appraisal, US$ 7.20 million;
   actual, US$ 7.34 million), with support for the director general, budget directorate, treasury directorate,
   procurement directorate, asset management directorate, and expenditure review unit.

   B. Strengthening Capacity in the General Directorate of Revenue and Customs (restructuring appraisal, US$ 6.52
   million; actual, US$ 6.29 million), with support for the director general, domestic revenue directorate, petroleum
   revenue directorate, and customs directorate.

   C. Strengthening Capacity in the General Directorate of Policy Analysis and Research (restructuring appraisal,
   US$ 2.01 million; actual, US$ 4.46 million), with support for the statistics directorate, macroeconomic directorate,
   petroleum fund directorate, and investment policy and analysis unit.

   D. Strengthening Capacity in the General Directorate of Corporate Services (restructuring appraisal, US$ 13.06
   million; actual, US$ 13.64 million), with support for a flexible professional development program (providing
   scholarships and training courses to meet the evolving needs of the MoF), human resources, internal audit and
   legal services, information technology, external communications, strategic planning, and change management.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: Total project costs were estimated in the PAD at US$ 37.27 million; actual costs were US$ 31.75
   million. According to the Operations Portal, differences between planned and actual costs were due to exchange
   rate gains and lags in filling consultant positions left vacant during the project's final extension. The project team
   also explained that US$ 37.27 million was an overestimate, and that the project proceeded throughout
   implementation within the envelope of available funds from the Bank and other donors.

   Financing: The project's original financing plan included a US$ 7.0 million International Development Association
   (IDA) Grant and co-financing of "around US$ 27.0 million" at the time of appraisal (p. 8). Australia, Ireland,
   Japan, and the UK were actively involved with the Government and the Bank during preparation; the PAD also
   listed the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Norway, New Zealand, Portugal, and Sweden as prospective
   development partners. The IMF and Japan were to participate through bilateral support, while the others were
   contemplating bilateral support or co-financing with the Bank. The project was designed as a five-year rolling
   program, following a "platform" approach with early steps tackling key bottlenecks and creating a foundation or
   "platform" for future developments, and outer years building on earlier achievements and lessons. It was
   explicitly recognized that capacity building of the nature and scope envisaged under the program would take
   years, if not decades, and therefore that support would likely be required beyond the five-year scope of the
   original project (PAD, p. 8).

   When eventually confirmed in 2010, the planned contribution from co-financiers (Australia, the European
   Commission, Ireland, Norway, and New Zealand) was through a Recipient-Executed Trust Fund (RETF) in the
   amount of US$ 25.1 million. US$ 7.48 million of the planned Bank financing was disbursed and US$ 0.1 million
   cancelled. Prior to the February 2010 restructuring, disbursements were primarily from the IDA Grant: US$ 7.14
   million of the IDA Grant, and US$ 4 million from the RETF (Program Paper, January 28, 2010, pp, 1, 8). At
   closing, US$ 24.32 million of the RETF had been disbursed, with US$ 0.78 million cancelled. Additional
   resources of "about US$ 4.0 million" (ICR, p. 24) were provided by direct support from the IMF to the Treasury,
   Norwegian government petroleum resource management, and Japanese government support to Aid
   Effectiveness.

   Borrower Contribution: According to the PAD (p. 8), the Government was intended to contribute at least US 0.5
   million. The ICR (p. 24) states that the Government provided in-kind contributions that "exceeded by far the
   original estimate," but to which it is difficult to assign a monetary value.

   Dates:

        February 2010: A Level I restructuring amended the project development objectives to align the program
         with a new Ministry of Finance administrative structure and streamline its objectives, activities, and results
         framework.

        May 2011: A Level II restructuring extended the closing date from July 10, 2011 to November 30, 2012 to
         allow completion of activities.

        October 2012: A Level II restructuring again extended the closing date from November 30, 2012 to January
         31, 2014, to maintain implementation of activities and bridge to a follow-on program financed by Australia.
         The total time extension was just over 42 months, an increase by 63% of the implementation time estimated
         at appraisal.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Relevance of the original objectives is rated Substantial . At appraisal, Timor-Leste was experiencing rapid
   expansion in petroleum sector revenues, putting considerable pressure on its public financial management
   system. Effective and efficient execution of a rapidly growing budget was seen as the country's principal
   potential source of growth in the short term (PAD, p. 2), but corruption, lack of skills and knowledge, and
   cumbersome and incomplete systems and processes were identified as key obstacles. The project's objectives
   were responsive to these country conditions. At appraisal, the objectives were also relevant to the World Bank
   Group's (WBG's) Country Assistance Strategy (2005), directly supporting its three pillars (delivering sustainable
   services, creating productive employment, and strengthening governance) and four principles of engagement
   (building institutional capacity, deepening results orientation, strengthening transparency and communication,
   and consolidating and extending strong partnerships established among development partners), with particular
   focus on the good governance pillar. The project was aligned with the Government's recognition of the public
   financial management system's key role in service delivery and poverty reduction, and with its integrated,
   three-pillar approach to institution building: skills and knowledge, systems and processes, and attitudes and
   behaviors (PAD, p. 4). At closing, the objectives were consistent with the government's current Strategic
   Development Plan 2011-2030, which focuses on institutions (including sound macroeconomic management,
   public financial management, and capacity development for state institutions) as one of its four pillars. The
   WBG's current Country Partnership Strategy (2013-2017) is constructed around this Strategic Development Plan.
   However, the original objectives were overly ambitious, targeting the Ministry of Public Finance and its ten
   directorates, five line ministries, and thirteen district entities across a wide range of outcomes.

   Relevance of the revised objectives is also rated Substantial . The scope was narrowed in terms of beneficiaries
   (only to the Ministry of Finance) and dimension (to planning and management of public finance), while the
   objectives remained substantially relevant to country conditions, government strategy, and Bank strategy. The
   inclusion of "growth and poverty reduction" in the statement of objectives, however, was ambitious, as the
   project's planned activities would not reasonably have been expected immediately to impact growth and poverty.
   The project team later explained that, in Timor-Leste, the government budget represents virtually all non-oil gross
   domestic product, and therefore a very strong link exists between enhancing capacity at the Ministry of Finance
   and economic growth/poverty reduction, even if that link is difficult to illustrate directly.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of design under the original objectives is rated Modest . The project's planned activities were logically
   and plausibly linked to achievement of desired outcomes. It was explicitly recognized that short-term, off-site
   training programs had been ineffective in achieving capacity-building objectives in other projects, and therefore
   planned activities focused on mentoring, on-the-job training, and competency-based on-site capacity building.
   Because of extremely low capacity at the project's outset, activities were deliberately structured as "scaffolding"
   that could be shifted and realigned as needs were identified and additional donors became involved. There was
   an explicit attempt to balance technical assistance with capacity building, with early focus on the establishment of
   core public financial management systems and processes (so that expenditure plans could be executed and
   services delivered), and evolving development of on-the-job and formal training. However, despite efforts to
   match activities to capacity, this approach resulted in a too-wide and complex array of activities, targeted at too
   many different entities, that was unlikely to result in achievement of objectives. In particular, implementation
   arrangements and human/financial resources designated for line ministries and district entities appear to have
   been inadequate for achieving desired outcomes.

   Relevance of design under the revised objectives is rated Substantial . The 2010 restructuring mapped the
   components to a new organizational structure of the Ministry of Finance (MoF), reducing the complexity of project
   design and consolidating activities at the core central level of that single ministry. The detailed five-year training
   plan was revised to a more flexible Professional Development Program that could better adapt to evolving MoF
   needs.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):


   Achievement of the original o bjective -- to support the Recipient 's Ministry of Planning and Finance , its
   agencies, line ministries and district entities involved in financial management to strengthen planning ,
   budgeting, public expenditure management and revenue administration with emphasis on efficiency ,
   effectiveness, accountability, integrity, service culture, and transparency -- is rated Modest, due to lack of
   evidence related to line ministries and district entities.

   Outputs:

   The project's primary contribution was the recruitment and oversight of a series of international and national
   advisors, mostly in long-term positions, as well a support for the Ministry of Finance’s (MoF's) reform strategy and
   2011-2030 Strategic Plan. As a result of capacity developed, the number of international advisors decreased
   from 45 at project inception to 18 at closing. These inputs led to:

   Public expenditure management:

      The Financial Management Information System (FMIS), procurement, and treasury systems and processes
   were simplified and strengthened, with an increased delegation of responsibilities to line ministries. FMIS
   upgrades are now handled by a dedicated staff. A Transparency Module allows real-time monitoring of spending
   and revenue mobilization.
    MoF records were reconciled with bank accounts, Free Balance (a web-based transparency portal) was
   extended to line ministries, payroll was put onto Free Balance, and quarterly budget reports were published on
the web. As a result of this increased transparency, public and parliamentary scrutiny of the budget process has
been enhanced. A workshop held in May 2013 to set the fiscal envelope for the FY 14 budget was opened to the
public for the first time.
 Policy and research functions were consolidated into the Directorate General for State Finances.
Revenue administration:

    A detailed Customs diagnostic study was completed in 2012, providing the basis for reform and
modernization of the Customs Directorate. The Customs Code was revised, and an Automated System for
Customs Data was implemented. Core tax administration functions were stabilized, compliance levels were
improved, petroleum tax audits were introduced, capital gains tax assessments were conducted, and customs
clearance and post-clearance audit were strengthened. The average time taken to clear green line customs
declarations was 30.1 hours in 2013 (no baseline available), exceeding the target of 47;4 hours. However,
capacity gaps remain, mainly relating to downstream operational functions, understanding of tax rules, and
rationalization of the customs legislation.
 Use of the Standard Integrated Government Tax Administration System has improved, and a user support
system was established.

Governance and management:

    The Ministry of Finance prepared and implemented an organization change strategy and Strategic Plan
2011--2030. An Organic Law for the MoF has been approved, and a resulting reorganization is under way
(including Annual Action Plans). Capacity development for the MoF was implemented through a comprehensive
Professional Development Program, resulting in the graduation of 59 civil servants with diploma and master's
degrees, the establishment of a PFM Training Centre, overseas study visits, and the creation in 2011 of a Human
Capital Development Fund.
 The General Directorate of Policy Analysis and Research published analyses of national accounts from
2011-2012, sources of economic growth, revenue performance, and inflation drivers and prospects, prepared a
fiscal framework and underlying long-term growth model, and laid the ground work for a Living Standards Survey
and full poverty assessment. Training on macro modeling, analysis, and reporting was conducted.

Information technology:

   A stable operating platform was established to provide information technology support for government-wide
applications and support services. Budget execution rates are now defined and included on-line. 90% of logged
IT cases are now resolved within 24 hours. However, much of the support that was envisaged for corporate
services (human resource management, internal audit, financial management, etc.) was delayed pending the
outcome of an ongoing Ministry of Finance restructuring.

Outcomes:

The 2014 state budget was prepared almost exclusively by civil servants rather than consultants. Annual
budgets have become smaller since 2012, aligning with spending capacity (which remains low in line ministries).
2014 budget documents are comprehensive, including relevant analysis, and are available to the public. The
2011-2014 budgets were submitted to parliament 45 days before the end of the fiscal year (with the exception of
2012, which experienced election-year delays that are accounted for by law); this met the target. The 2013 and
2014 budget documents received the maximum Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) score of
A. The budget reflects government policy priorities, although outstanding issues remain with regard to the
realism of capital budget expenditure projections. This achievement essentially meets the target.

The 2013 PEFA assessment also showed clear strengthening of public financial management from 2007 to 2013,
with the strongest gains in the 2010-2013 period in policy-based budgeting and tax administration (and smaller
gains in internal controls, accounting and recording, external scrutiny, and budget credibility) (ICR, p. 43).
Improvements were seen along 12 dimensions of the PEFA, with two dimensions showing decline and 14 no
change.

The ICR (p. 28) states that there have been improvements in the non-oil fiscal deficit, revenue out-turns, and ratio
of domestic tax to GDP. Given project outputs, is it reasonable to conclude that the project made some
contribution to these outcomes:
 The non-oil fiscal deficit declined to 71% of non-oil GDP in 2010, meeting the target of less than 90% for that
year, but then rose to 81% in 2011, 78% in 2012, and 98% in 2013, based on a downward revision of estimated
    2013 non-oil GDP (the volatility in this indicator stems from revisions to the denominator). Annual growth in the
    non-oil economy has averaged 12% from 2007-2012.
     Revenue out-turn increased from 75% in 2008 to 140% in 2011, 194% in 2012, and 100.6% in 2013,
    exceeding the target of 90%. Volatility is due to petroleum revenue. Between 2010 and 2012, US$ 300 million in
    additional petroleum revenues were collected based on tax assessments and audits of company submissions.
    Non-petroleum revenue out-turns were 101% for 2011, 103% for 2012, and 102% for 2013.
     Domestic tax collection as a share of non-oil GDP dropped from 9% in 2007 to 5.4% in 2010, but then
    increased to 7% in 2011, 7.3% in 2012, and 9.3% in 2013.
     Expenditure out-turn increased from 49% in 2006/2007 to 84% in 2011, but then fell to 66% in 2012 and 66%
    in 2013. The execution rate on current spending was 93% in 2010, 88% in 2011, 92% in 2012, and 87% in 2013.
    A 2014 budget execution law commits to a reduction in the state budget if execution is not projected to reach
    75% by the end of the third quarter. All quarterly budget execution reports in 2013 were published within two
    months of the end of the quarter.

    Achievement of the revised objective -- to strengthen capacity in the Ministry of Finance for prudent , effective
    and accountable planning and management of public finances to promote growth and poverty reduction -- is
    rated Substantial, based on achievements noted above within the restructured Ministry of Finance. This Review
    concurs with the ICR's statement that direct project impact on growth and poverty reduction is "difficult to
    quantify" (ICR, p. 11).

5. Efficiency:

    Efficiency is rated Modest, due to significant shortcomings in implementation efficiency.

    The PAD (pp. 26-27, 112-113) did not conduct a traditional economic or financial analysis, but instead
    qualitatively listed expected program benefits, including improved planning and budgeting, budget execution,
    revenue collection, accurate and timely procurement, and general governance, leadership, and service delivery.
    No effort was made to quantify or assess the impact of these gains. The ICR (pp. 38-43) similarly analyzes proxy
    benefits, demonstrating that budget credibility has improved as budgets have been moderated toward spending
    capacity, improved efficiency in petroleum tax audits has contributed to the growth of the Petroleum Fund, and an
    enhanced in-house macro-fiscal framework has led to greater fiscal sustainability and multi-year perspective in
    planning, policy, and budgeting. However, there is no attempt to assess cost effectiveness and hence no way to
    judge the project's "value for money."

    Implementation efficiency was extremely weak in the early years of the project, when its complex structure,
    coupled with thin MoF management capacity, resulted in significant delays. Language barriers (as well as a low
    starting skills base at the MoF) limited external advisors' ability to transfer knowledge to counterparts, thereby
    wasting resources. In many instances, pressure to implement the MoF's reform agenda resulted in advisors
    taking on direct implementation roles, superseding intended support for capacity development among Timorese
    staff and delaying development of that capacity. Progress accelerated after the 2010 restructuring, though an
    MoF restructuring in 2013 (as well as an earlier restructuring in 2009) rotated technical and managerial staff in
    ways that disrupted day-to-day capacity building work. Turnover of external advisors also interrupted skills
    transfers. An independent review found that consultant salaries were within international norms (ICR, Annex 4a).
    The ICR (p. 18) also states that effective donor coordination made technical assistance overall more efficient; it
    does not provide detail to support this assertion, but cites a 2011 IEG country program evaluation. The project
    team explained that donor coordination was enhanced through effective government ownership via the creation
    of a Directorate for Management of External Assistance, through Bank-convened biweekly donor meetings, and
    through strong informal relationships.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       No
    ICR estimate                    No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
   Outcome under the original objectives:

   Relevance of objectives is Substantial, with the project's objectives tightly linked to country conditions, Bank
   strategy, and the institutional pillar of the government's 2011-2030 Strategic Development Plan. Relevance of
   design is rated Modest . While the linkage of the project's planned activities to anticipated outcomes was in
   principle plausible and logical, initial design was overly complex and required a streamlining restructuring
   mid-course. Achievement of the original objective -- to support the Recipient's Ministry of Planning and Finance,
   its agencies, line ministries and district entities involved in financial management to strengthen planning,
   budgeting, public expenditure management and revenue administration with emphasis on efficiency,
   effectiveness, accountability, integrity, service culture, and transparency -- is rated Modest, due to lack of
   evidence related to line ministries and district entities. Efficiency is rated Modest due to delays and inefficiencies
   in staffing and training. Taken together, these ratings are indicative of significant shortcomings in the project's
   preparation and implementation, and therefore an Outcome rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory.

   Outcome under the revised objectives:

   Relevance of objectives remains Substantial, with the caveat that the inclusion of "growth and poverty reduction"
   in the statement of objectives was inappropriately ambitious, as the project's planned activities would not
   reasonably have been expected immediately to impact growth and poverty. Relevance of the revised design was
   Substantial, reducing the complexity of project design and consolidating activities at the core central level of the
   restructured MoF. Achievement of the revised objective -- to strengthen capacity in the Ministry of Finance for
   prudent, effective and accountable planning and management of public finances to promote growth and poverty
   reduction -- is rated Substantial, based on achievements in public expenditure management, revenue
   administration, and governance and planning within the restructured Ministry of Finance. Efficiency remains
   Modest. Taken together, these ratings are indicative of moderate shortcomings in the project's preparation and
   implementation, and therefore an Outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

   Following IEG/POCS guidelines, as less than half of Bank-managed funds (35.6%) were disbursed under the
   original objectives, the final Outcome rating is weighted toward that under the revised objectives, resulting in an
   overall assessment of Moderately Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Toward the end of the project period, the Minister of Finance requested direct budget support as a follow-on to
   the project. This support is being provided through US$ 25.5 million (2014-2017) from Australia and the
   European Union, with Bank advisory services informing policy dialogue. This arrangement is based on donors
   disbursing a tranche of funds against the MoF's own key performance indicators, with verification of progress by
   a team of independent experts. Financial risk is therefore low. Institutional risk is also low, as the capacity
   developed under the project has been institutionalized through an increase in staff skills and consequent
   reduction in functions performed by consultants.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   Project preparation was guided by ample analytical work and background documentation (PAD, p. 7). It built
   on an excellent track record of donor coordination in the country. Lessons taken into account in program
   design included the need for strong government commitment, alignment of objectives with the country's
   absorptive capacity, continued effective donor coordination, and close monitoring of potential procurement
   and implementation challenges (PAD, p. 20). Risk assessment focused on challenges with governance and
   corruption, delays in decision making on IT system upgrades, weaknesses and delays in program financial
   management, limited government capacity to manage the petroleum tax regime; mitigation measures
   consisted primarily of targeted assistance and program-wide focus on integrity, transparency, and
   accountability. The PAD also outlined a contingency plan for use of IDA funds as a stand-alone Grant, in the
   event that anticipated financing from other donors did not materialize with a highly detailed account of the
   project's activities over the first eighteen months, establishing the "platform" on which subsequent efforts
   would be laid. However, this matrix of inputs, outputs, and indicators covered a large number of specific
   directorates/agencies with a large number of indicators; few of these included baselines or targets. The ICR
   (p. 19) refers to an initially "far too ambitious agenda and complex project design." In particular, insufficient
   attention and resources were devoted to the line ministries and district entities specified in the project's
   objectives during the initial years of implementation. In addition, the fact that the project was not initially fully
   endorsed by all donors led to delays in mobilization of funding, contributing to a slow start.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   Early supervision efforts, particularly given the complexity of project design and the fact that the country was
   emerging from civil strife in 2006-2007 and the installation of a new government in 2007, were insufficient.
   Turnover of task team leaders prior to the 2010 restructuring was high. The 2010 Mid-Term Review was a
   "significant milestone" in the project's life cycle (ICR, p. 6), providing concrete action steps for putting
   activities firmly on track and marking the beginning of regular implementation support missions. These steps
   included the creation of the Project Implementation Unit and the restructuring of the project to focus
   exclusively on the Ministry of Finance. Also, after the 2010 restructuring, the task team leader was based in
   the country office, further improving supervision effectiveness.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   Government ownership of the project was strong, particularly after the project recovered from its slow start. It
   was consistently willing to identify areas requiring improvement and institute remedies. The Ministry of
   Finance was a strong manager throughout, using the project to define and implement an ambitious reform
   agenda. However, the demands of the government program continue to stretch the capacity of spending
   institutions and systems.


  Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), housed in the Ministry of Planning and Financing's Administration and
   IT Directorate, managed the project effectively. It evolved into the "highly recognized" National Directorate for
   Management of External Support (to the MoF), developing capacity building plans that are currently being
   implemented across the MoF (ICR, p. 5).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The Administration and IT Directorate was responsible for coordinating the preparation and submission of
   quarterly reports and one annual report on progress against annual action programs and results matrices. The
   original results matrix contained over 60 indicators with few baselines and targets, making it difficult to monitor
   progress.

b. M&E Implementation:

   At the February 2010 restructuring, the results matrix was revised to one PDO-level indicator and six intermediate
   outcome indicators. This revised matrix aligned well with the project's components, which in turn matched the
   MoF's organizational and accountability structure. By the end of the project period, reporting was channeled
   through the MoF's own results-based management system, governed by the Ministry's Strategic Plan and
   five-year/annual action plans. Key indicators at the level of Directorates General and Directorates were
   measured using real-time government data and the MoF's web-based transparency portal.

c. M&E Utilization:

   By project closing, the project's results indicators were mapped completely onto the MoF's monitoring framework.
   Building on this achievement and experience, the MoF is now developing a planning and M&E framework for the
   whole of government.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was Environmental Category C and did not trigger any safeguard policies.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   At preparation, risk related to financial management was rated High, and to procurement Substantial. Despite
   challenges, the government preferred to use country systems wherever possible. By the end of the project
   period, implementation was largely through government procedures, including contract and human resources
   management, payments, and audit.

   According to the ICR (p. 9), fiduciary compliance was consistently rated Satisfactory from the 2010 restructuring
   onward. The ICR (p. 9) mentions fraud in 2011/2012 but does not provide further details. The ICR does not state
   whether external audits were on time and unqualified, nor does it provide a separate discussion of procurement.
   The project team later added that only two audits and 7 of 27 Interim Financial Reports were on time, and two
   audits were qualified (with those qualifications subsequently addressed). The quality and timeliness of audits
   and financial reports improved significantly as the project progressed and especially after the PIU was
   established.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                   Outcome: Moderately                 Moderately
                            Satisfactory               Satisfactory
        Risk to Development Negligible to Low          Negligible to Low
                   Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately               Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately        The challenges of the government's
                                                            Satisfactory      ambitious reform agenda continue to
                                                                              stretch the capacity of spending
                                                                              institutions and systems.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (p. 23) cites valuable lessons, including:

    Consistency and stability of personnel are important. In this case, turnover of both consultants/advisors and
    task team leaders negatively impacted project performance at various stages of implementation.

    A modest initial project scope, producing quick and demonstrable wins, can be preferable to early ambition. In
    this case, the complexity of planned activities and results matrix overwhelmed staff with limited capacity,
    necessitating restructuring to streamline.

    Deliberate and focused attention to balancing the implementation and capacity building roles of external
    technical advisors is critical for long-term success. In this case, the advisors frequently assumed direct
    implementation roles in response to a demanding government agenda, delaying absorption of skills and
    capacity among local, permanent staff.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides a clear, concise account of the project's preparation and implementation experience, and of the
    rationale and mechanisms by which early challenges were addressed. Its analysis acknowledges the difficulties
    in attributing growth and poverty reduction outcomes to project-financed activities. However, there are numerous
    shortcomings. The ICR's discussions of efficiency, Bank and Borrower Performance, M&E, and
    procurement/financial management are somewhat thin. Guidelines for determining the project's outcome rating
    are not correctly followed; in particular, the ICR rates achievement of components rather than objectives. In
    addition, the ICR's Data Sheet (p. iii) indicates that a split rating methodology was followed, but there is no
    indication of this methodology in the main text. The ICR also does not account for US$ 4 million in RETF
    financing that had been disbursed at the 2010 restructuring (Program Paper, p. 1). The ICR's lessons are
    insightful and well derived from project experience, but they are not adequately fleshed out. On balance, the ICR
    quality is satisfactory but marginally so.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
