FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 10 7a-IN
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
April 12, 1973
[IA PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          -  Rs 7,50
RS 1          =  US$0.133
Rs 1,000      S  US$133.33
Rs 1,000,000  -  US$133,333
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
UP  =  Uttar Pradesh
ARC -  Agricultural Refinance Corporation
GOI =  Government of India
LDB -  Uttar Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development Bank, Ltd.
SGD =  Uttar Pradesh State Groundwater Directorate
MID =  Uttar Pradesh State Minor Irrigation Department
CROPPING SEASONS
Kharif season        -    June to September
Rabi season          -    October to February
Zaid season          -    March to May
FISCAL AND FINANCIAL YEARS
GOI and UP - April 1 through March 31
ARC and LDB - July 1 through June 30



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
S.hMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......      ........................ i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION        ...............................             1
II.   BACKGROUND         ...............................              1
A.   India .........       ...................................    1
B.   The State of Uttar Pradesh       . ......................    2
C.   The Project Area .................................    3
III.   THE PROJECT        ................................             6
A.   Definition .......................................    6
B.   Detailed Features ................................    7
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing .....        ................    8
D.   Procurement and Disbursement .....        ................  11
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEbENT ...........................  12
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS ...   18
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATICI4 ........      ....................   22
VII.   A.GREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....       ...........  23
SCHEDULE A - Project Lending Terms and Conditions
SCHEDULE B - Spacing of Wells
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
India in October/November 1972.  The mission was composed of Messrs. S.J. Khoo,
H. McDonald, W. Panton and G. von Wallenberg.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Background
Appendix 1-1 Number of Cultivating Households (Rural and
Urban) by Land Ownership Size in the Project
Area and in Uttar Pradesh
Appendix 1-2 Project Area - land Utilization, 1968-69
2.   Minor Irrigation
Appendix 2-1 Project Costs
Appendix 2-2 Estimated Crop Irrigation Water Requirements
3.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements (Cumulative)
4.   The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
Appendix 4-1 Condensed Statements of Net Income for Fiscal
Years 1965/66 - 1971/72
Appendix 4-2 Projected Statement of Net Income for Fiscal
Years 1971/72 - 1975/76
A-ppendix 4-3 Condensed Balance Sheets at End of Fiscal Years
1965/66 - 1971/72
Appendix 4-4 Projected Balance Sheets at End of Fiscal Years
1971/72 - 1975/76
5.   Uttar Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd.
AppPndix 5-1 Condensed Statement of Income for Fiscal Years
1966/67 - 1971/72
Appendix 5-2 Condensed Projected Statement of Net Income
for Fiscal Years 1971/72 - 1976/77
Appendix 5-3 Condensed Balance Sheets at End of Fiscal Years
1966/67 - 1971/72
Appendix 5-4 Condensed Projected Balance Sheets at End of
Fiscal Years 1971/72 - 1976/77
6.   Principal Commercial Banks Operating in Uttar Pradesh
7.   Agricultural Marketing in Uttar Pradesh
8.   Estimated Increase in Cropped Area and Production
9.   Detailed Investment Cost and Yield Assumptions - Financial
Appendix 9-1 Current Crop Prices
10.   Financial-Rates of Return to the Enterprises
11.   Economic Rate of Return
Appendix 11-1 Economic Rates of Return to the Enterprises
MAP



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an Agricultural Credit Project in the State
of Uttar Pradesh for which an IDA credit of US$38 million equivalent is
proposed. It would support a three-year lending program of the Uttar Pradesh
State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) and qualified commercial banks
for investments in minor irrigation comprising about 10,000 masonry or dug
wells equipped with persian wheels, 20,000 shallow tubewells, and 20,000
medium depth tubewells. In view of the shortage and the unreliability of
electricity supplies, most tubewells would be equipped with diesel operated
pumpsets. Funds for the lending program would be channelled through the
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) which is already acting as the
financing channel for seven IDA-supported agricultural credit projects in
India.
ii.       Like all other Indian states, Uttar Pradesh is giving priority to
agricultural development aimed principally at expanding foodgrain production
and providing employment for a growing labor force. Of the State's total
area of about 29.4 million ha, approximately 67% is cultivated, with about
85% of the cultivated area being devoted to the production of foodgrains.
Despite good soils and favorable topography, yields of most crops are low.
This is largely because extensive areas continue to depend solely on uncer-
tain rainfall and are also subject to periodic drought. Substantial surface
and groundwater resources exist but have yet to be fully developed for irri-
gation. It is estimated that only about 36% of the annual groundwater
recharge is presently being tapped for use and the proportion of utilization
is even lower in the Project area.
iii.      The Project which would assist on-farm investments for the develop-
ment of wells, would be located in 14 districts in the eastern part of the
State. The Project area is economically more backward and farmer incomes
lower than in the rest of the State. The primary causes are higher popula-
tion density, smaller farms, and lesser utilization of groundwater resources.
The State Government therefore plans to accelerate the development of minor
irrigation in the Project area.
iv.       The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$3.5 million
equivalent or about 5% of total Project costs of US$72.5 million. IDA would
finance US$38 million equivalent, being the foreign exchange component and
50% of the local currency costs. Of the total Project costs, IDA would
finance about 52%, farmers 15%, and the LDB, participating commercial banks,
and the ARC 33%. Farmers' contribution to investment costs would be 20% for
wells and 10% for pumpsets and persian wheels, except in the case of small
farmers whose contribution for masonry or dug well investments would be
reduced to 10%, and for tubewells to 15%.



- ii -
V.        LDB would be the main channel of Project funds to beneficiaries in
the Project area. While the commercial banks in Uttar Pradesh are becoming
increasingly active in the field of agricultural credit, this is still a new
field of activity for them, and it is unlikely that they would be able to
undertake a significant proportion of Project lending. Staff strengthening
of the LDB, and reduction of loan overdues of the LDB branches in the Project
area are essential. A program of staff recruitment and staffing which would
accord priority to the Project area, has been drawn up by the Mission. Agree-
ment on this recruitment program was obtained during negotiations. LDB would
also be required tc prepare a staff training plan for IDA approval within
six months of credit effectiveness and to produce a program for loan recoveries
acceptable to IDA, which would ensure that LDB as a whole and at least 30
of its branches in the Project area would have achieved a loan recovery
performance of not less than 75% as a condition of credit effectiveness.
Loan recovery performance of not less than 75% means that at least 75% of the
loans (principal and interest) would have been repaid by due date. Finally,
a further 10 branches should qualify by the end of the first year of Project
execution. To the extent that these recovery targets are not met, the State
Government would provide the LDB with new equity capital to the extent of the
LDB and its individual branch overdues in excess of 25% of demand (principal
and interest due). Alternatively, or in combination with the equity capital
contribution by the State Government, LDB would use its profits (after
allocations have been made to statutory reserves and other mandatory funds,
including normal contributions to bad debt reserves) to reduce overdues to
not more than 25% of demand. With these conditions, the banking system in
the Project area would be adequate to achieve full Project implementation
within the three-year period envisaged.
vi.       The IDA Credit to the Government of India (GOI) would be relent to
ARC which would repay about 50% after nine years at an interest rate of
5-1/2% per annum and the balance after 15 years at 6% per annum. ARC would
supervise and refinance at 6-1/2% per annum the loan operations of agreed
participating bankz. Loans to individual borrowers would bear interest at
a minimum of 9% per annum and would be repayable over periods of up to nine
years, but extending to 15 years in the case of loans to small farmers.
vii.      Drilling of the wells would be carried out by the Minor Irrigation
Department as well as by local contractors. Adequate well drilling equipment
and pumpsets, including repair and maintenance facilities, are available
within the State and sufficient for Project needs. The execution of the
Project would involve small investment items and operation on about 50,000
individual farms spread over a period of three years, making international
competitive bidding procedures impracticable. Procurement would be through
normal commercial channels according to farmers' choice, as for other similar
IDA credit project...
viii.     The Project would have substantial economic and social benefits.
It would raise agricultural yields and cropping intensity, as well as in-
crease on-farm employment opportunities in one of the most populous and
economically depressed areas of Uttar Pradesh. The livelihood of about
70,000 farmers (including many small farmers) and their families would be



- iii -
improved significantly by the Project. Financial returns to farmers, based
on prevailing prices, are estimated to range from 17% to 41%. The rates
of return to the economy, based on projected world market prices, are
estimated to be from 16% to 35%. In addition, the LDB staff strengthening
that would be implemented during the Project period, would enable the insti-
tution to improve as well as increase the pace of its lending operations.
The appropriate assurances having been obtained, the Project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$38 million.






INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Following the greater priority accorded to agriculture since 1965,
major efforts continue to be made by the Government of India (GOI) to channel
increasing credit into the agricultural sector to enable more farmers to
adopt improved agricultural practices and to utilize modern production in-
puts. In support of these efforts, seven agricultural credit projects, one
each in the states of Gujarat, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana,
Mysore and Maharashtra have already been approved by IDA, totalling IDA funds
of US$217 million. In addition, a credit project for Madhya Pradesh is under
consideration. Though the implementation and disbursements of the existing
credit projects was initially slow, because it took longer than expected to
bring about the necessary institutional changes and for the lending agencies
to adopt appropriate lending criteria, an IDA Agricultural Credit Review and
Supervision Mission which recently visited India, confirmed that these
problems are being resolved.
1.02      This Project is based on a proposal submitted to IDA by the UP
Government and follows the pattern of previous agricultural credit projects
in India. It was appraised by Messrs. S. J. Khoo, H. McDonald, W. Panton,
and G. von Wallenberg who visited India in October/November 1972. This
report is based on the Government's project submission and the mission's
findings.
II. BACKGROUND
A. India -/
2.01      Since 1965, India has shifted the emphasis of its development
efforts from industry to agriculture. As a result, priority has been given
in recent years to accelerating the spread of modern agricultural technology
through increasing the availability of improved inputs such as high-yielding
seed varieties, fertilizers, and irrigation. Although 70% of India's labor
force is ergaged in agriculture (providing half of India's GNP) a large pro-
portion of farmers have scarcely been affected by the recent agricultural
advances. A large number of farmers could take advantage of the new tech-
niques if credit were made available to them. An increased supply of credit
for farm investment is thus important to the continued growth of agricul-
tural production.
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of agri-
culture in India is given in Economic Situation and Prospects of India,
Report No. SA-32a, May 10, 1972.



-2-
2.02      The Reserve Bank of India has estimated that credit institutions
will require Rs 15,000 million (US$2,000 million) for long-term agriculture
lending during the Fourth Plan (1969/70 - 1973/74), or an annual average of
Rs 3,000 million compared with about Rs 600 million invested in 1966/67.
Short- and medium-term credit requirements would increase by an estimated
11% annually rising to about Rs 25,000 million (US$3,333 million) by
1973/74. Provisional figures show the long-term credit supply for 1970/71
at about Rs 1,800 million and the short-term at Rs 6,000 million. There
thus remains a substantial agricultural credit gap.
B. The State of Uttar Pradesh
2.03      UP is situated in the northeastern part of India to the east of
New Delhi (see Map). The State has an area of about 294,400 km2 and a
population estimated at 90 million for mid-1972. It is the most populous
and fourth largest State in India. For administrative purposes, UP is
divided into 54 dietricts comprising 234 tehsils. Only about 14% of UP's
population is urban (20% for India), so that agricultural production holds
special significance for the economy of the State. About 60% of the State's
income is derived from the agricultural sector which provides employment
for over three-fourths of the working population.
2.04      UP has a subtropical monsoon climate.  Annual rainfall ranges from
600-1,000 mm in the western part to 1,000-1,200 mm in the eastern part, in
which the Project area would be located. The major portion of the State's
agricultural area occupies the upper central portion of the Ganges Plain
which slopes slightly from north to south in the western portion and from
north-west to south-east in the eastern portion. Soils are essentially deep
alluvium, deposited by the Ganges River and its tributaries. Abont 85% of
the cultivated area is devoted to the production of food grains - cereals
and pulses. Wheat, rice, maize, barley, sorghum and millets are the major
cereals. Sugarcane, oilseeds, potato and cotton are the major non-foodgrains
grown on the remaining 15% of the cultivated area.
2.05      UP has the highest population pressure of any state in India, and
there is little cultivable land left to expand crop production. An indica-
tion of this pressure is the preponderance of small farms. Of an estimated
9.4 million farms, approximately 38% are less than 1 ha (13% of farm land),
28% are between 1 and 2 ha (20% of farm land), and the remaining 34% are
larger than 2 ha (67% of farm land). Holdings of 10 ha and above account
for less than 2% of all farms.
2.06      In common with many of the other states, the most important objec-
tives of UP's current Development Program (1969/70 - 1973/74) are to expand
agriculture, particularly foodgrain production, and to provide increased
employment for a rapidly growing labor force in the agricultural sector. In
view of the scarcity of land, this can be achieved mainly by increasing the
productivity of existing farmland through irrigation facilities, and improved
inputs and methods of cultivation. The priority accorded irrigation is
reflected in the significant increases in the net irrigated area.



-3-
2.07      There are no known reservoir sites in the Project area for surface
water storage. The water supplies of the Ghaghra and Gomti rivers during
the rabi season are now fully utilized. There are a number of streams draining
the Himalayan foothills along the northern part of the Project area, although
these streams flow only during the monsoon season so that storage tanks or
reservoirs would be necessary to provide water during the rabi season. The
topography in this area is extremely flat which would make reservoir storage
very expensive per unit of water developed. Seepage and evaporation losses
during the storage period would also be substantial. With respect to ground-
water, the State has an annual recharge estimated at 6,780 million m3,
whereas the present annual discharge from existing wells is about 2,470 mil-
lion m3, or about 36%. The proportion of utilization is lower in the Project
area (para 2.11). There is, therefore, considerable potential for an increase
in groundwater use.
2.08      There are three types of well construction commonly in use in
the State. These are the masonry well (masonry-lined dug well), shallow
tubewell (dug-cum-bore well), and the medium depth tubewell. In addition,
there is the State owned deeper tubewell which serves a very much larger
command area. The performance of these tubewells has not been as satisfactory
as was anticipated, because the command areas of 200-250 ha were much larger
than the 103-120 ha that could be adequately served by the available water
supplies, and in the case of electrified tubewells which were subject to
unreliable power supplies, irrigation water could not be supplied to farmers
when it was most needed. The importance of smaller private wells as a source
of irrigation has been growing significantly, and they currently provide
irrigation for about 60% of the present total irrigated area (47% in 1960/61).
In practically all cases, well irrigation can be practised without land shaping
of any kind.
2.09      UP is short of electric power and only about 20% of the villages
have been electrified. Since about 70% of generating capacity is hydro-
power, the supply is sensitive to drought conditions and power shortages
occur at tines when the demand for irrigation pumping is at a maximum.
Furthermore, no power for irrigation is available during peak demand
periods. In view of the shortage, restrictions, and unreliability of
electricity supplies, most irrigators will likely select diesel engines as
a source of power. The electricity shortage can be expected to continue for
the next few years.
C. The Project Area (Annex 1)
2.10      The Project area comprises 14 districts totalling approximately
74,000 km2, and occupies a contiguous block of land in the eastern part of
the State, bounded in the north by Nepal, and in the east by the state of
Bihar. The area is roughly demarcated by the Gomti River, a tributary of
the Ganges River, on the west and south. The 14 districts are Jaunpur,
Ghazipur, Ballia, Gorakhpur, Basti, Azamgarh, Lucknow, Sitapur, Kheri,
Faizabad, Gonda, Bahraich, Sultanpur, and Barabanki (see Map).



-4-
2.11      Compared with the rest of the State, the Project area is econo-
mically backward and farmer incomes low. The primary causes can be attributed
to higher population density, smaller farms, and the lesser availability of
irrigation, resulting in lower land productivity. In relation to the State
as a whole, in the Project area population density is about 383 persons per
km2 compared to 300; approximately 48% of the 3.55 million farms are less
than 1 ha compared to 38%; and about 27% of the estimated groundwater re-
sources is being utilized compared to 36%. The State therefore plans to
reduce the dispartty in regional economic growth by carrying out an accelerated
development of the Project area.
2.12      Groundwater conditions in the area are favorable for well develop-
ment (para 2.18). Provision of adequate irrigation would enable farmers to
make the most productive use of high yielding seed and fertilizers, as well
as increase their cropping intensities (para 2.17). Development of on-farm
wells would probably be the most attractive economic proposition in that,
besides being profitable, even the small farmer can afford to participate.
In view of this, the State is giving high priority to the development of
wells in the Project area, and the proposed Project would be an important
contribution to this development.
Climate and Soils
2.13      The area has a subtropical monsoon climate.  Temperatures vary
from a minimum of around 4°C in January to a maximum of 43-45°C in June, and
the annual rainfall from about 960 mm to 1,360 mm. The main rains averaging
more than 800 mm in all parts of the area and over 1,000 mm in some northern
districts, occur during the kharif season, June to September, when a range
of tropical crops suited to the hot, humid conditions then prevailing are
grown. This is succeeded by a cooler, drier period, between October and
February (rabi crop season), when crops of a temperate type are grown, and
when irrigation is a special boon. Finally, during March, April and early
May a period of wam, dry weather is experienced, especially on the southern
side of the area, referred to as the Zaid, or summer season.
2.14      The Project area ranks as one of the most fertile regions in the
country. Lying entirely within the Ganges Plain, the area soils are devel-
oped over the deep alluvium deposited by the northern tributaries of the
Ganges River, principally the Gomti, Ghaghra and Rapti rivers and their
numerous subsidiary streams, which are continually depositing fresh material
eroded from the soft, often highly dolomitic rocks of the Himalayan Ranges.
The soils are essentially basic in character, and are highly productive.
They have been subject to cultivation for many centuries and are capable of
much higher sustained yield cultivation in the future, provided heavier
fertilizer dressirngs and improved irrigation facilities are made available.
Agricultural Structure
2.15      The pattern of land use is uniform throughout the area.  The
principal crops grown in the kharif season are rice, maize, sugarcane, and
a variety of millets. Rice alone accounts for over two-thirds of the total
area, with the other three crops the remaining one-third. During the rabi



season, the main crops grown are wheat (about 45% of the total area), barley
(20%), with other crops, mainly gram, peas, oilseeds, especially groundnuts,
lentils, sugarcane and potatoes, accounting for the remaining 35%. Actually
sugarcane is a year round crop taking up about 10% of the total cultivated
area. Some vegetable crops are also grown during the short Zaid period
(between the kharif and rabi seasons), particularly by those farmers who have
a reliable irrigation source and who are situated in close proximity to a ready
market.
2.16      Land tenure reforms undertaken in the last 20 years have been
more successful in UP than in most other states. Ownership is almost com-
plete within the Project area, where all land is title surveyed and entire
village cadasters exist. Fragmentation is not a serious problem, but the
small size of the average holding and the considerable rural population
density (para 2.11) are responsible for a high degree of farm household and
landless labor under-employment. Multiple cropping, which can be practised
on a much wider scale with irrigation, spreads the work load and helps to
relieve the under-employment situation.
Irrigation
2.17      Improved and more extensive year-round irrigation will lead to
an increase in the cropping intensity (para 5.01), particularly during the
rabi, and permit the introduction on a wider scale of higher yielding crop
varieties, such as wheat, sugarcane, paddy and maize, whtich are more sensi-
tive to moisture stress than their local equivalents. Thus, medium- and
short-term high yielding paddy varieties and hybrid maize, both capable of
giving yields of 2.5-3.0 ton/ha, can be introduced during the kharif, and
these crops can be harvested in time for the planting of high-yielding wheat
varieties, capable of 3 ton/ha or more. Sugarcane yields can be expected to
double from about 20 to 40 ton/ha under assured irrigation conditions, while
the area planted should increase appreciably as the smaller farmers commence
production of khandsari sugar for home consumption and local sale. Potato,
an entirely irrigated crop, is likely to be introduced in the rotation of
the larger farmers. Such improvements would substantially increase the in-
come of the farmers concerned, and thereby contribute to the economic devel-
opment of the area.
2.18      The Project area is characterized by a generally high water table
and the presence of aquifers at relatively shallow depth, with abundant
recharge capacity provided both by lateral seepage from the Himalayas and
by direct penetration of rainfall. It is consequently endowed with ground-
water conditions which are favorable for the development of a minor irriga-
tion system based mainly on shallow and medium depth wells. Because the
topography of the area is relatively flat, land levelling would not be re-
quired for well irrigation. In view of the above, wells have therefore
become the main source of irrigation (63% of the irrigated area), followed
by canals (17%), and lakes, ponds, tanks and other sources (20%). However,
only about one-third of the area's 4.8 million ha of net sown land is
presently irrigated, and the discharge from existing wells is approximately
27% of the estimated annual recharge. There is accordingly considerable



-6-
potential for a marked increase in groundwater use. The unutilized ground-
water recharge would be more than sufficient to meet the discharge by the
wells to be constructed under the Project (para 3.04).
Agricultural Inputs and Services
2.19      The supply and use of fertilizers and improved seed varieties have
increased considerably in recent years, and the sales tax on fertilizers was
recently abolished to encourage their use. The requirement of improved
seeds is met from the State Agriculture Department's 196 Seed Multiplication
Farms, registered private growers, and the Tarai Development Corporation,
which is implementing an IDA financed project (Tarai Seeds Project - Loan
No. 614-IN) for production of high quality seed in the Tarai region of UP.
The Agriculture Department and farmer cooperatives which operate an extensive
network of distribution facilities for improved seed varieties and fertilizers
would be able to supply the need for these inputs by farmers participating
in the Project. Agricultural extension services, as well as farmer, exten-
sion and in-service training are adequate for the Project area, and provided
by the Agriculture Department, the Institute of Agricultural Sciences at
Kanpur, 20 Extension Training Centers, 9 Farmers' Training Centers and the
regional research centers of several agricultural institutions. Furthermore,
a useful demonstration effect, which supplements the efforts of the extension
workers at the village level, is provided by the many farmers scattered
through the Project area who already have their own irrigation facilities.
2.20      Additional labor needs arising from the more intensive cropping
patterns adopted under the Project can be adequately met from the existing
supply of rural labor, which includes a high degree of under-employed labor
within existing farm households, as well as a considerable number of unem-
ployed farm laborers. Animal power, which is abundant throughout the area,
should be sufficient to meet most of the increased cultivation demands
arising from the higher cropping intensity. Farmers with irrigation facili-
ties report no difficulty in hiring supplementary bullock power.
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Definition
3.01      The Project would be part of the lending program of the Uttar
Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd. (LDB) and commercial
banks. It would help finance over a three-year period farmers' investments
in minor irrigation in 14 districts in the eastern part of the State. The
Project would be implemented through the LDB and commercial banks in the
Project area, under refinance arrangements with ARC. It would involve lending
to individual farmers for investments in about 50,000 wells, 10,000 persian
wheels and 40,000 diesel and electric pumpsets. Determination of Project
size was based on estimates of farmer demand and institutional capacity of
the lending institutions over a three-year period.



-7-
B. Detailed Features
3.02      Investments in minor irrigation would involve the construction of
about 10,000 masonry wells or dug wells, 20,000 shallow tubewells and 20,000
medium depth tubewells. A masonry well usually will yield 7 to 8 m3/hr,
which is about the average capacity of a persian wheel. However, there are
about 390,000 masonry wells in the Project area of which only about 65,000
are equipped with persian wheels. The remainder are equipped with leather
or metal buckets and water is lifted by bullocks. The second type of well
is the shallow tubewell which is a dug well with a tubewell drilled or bored
in the bottom penetrating the shallow aquifer that is usually less than 30 m
in depth. Frequently such wells are referred to as "cavity" wells because
they have no strainer. The casing is sealed into a thick clay layer which
forms the "roof" of the cavity formed by pumping out the sand around the end
of the casing. The cavity well is usually equipped with a small centrifugal
pump and motor which, if electric, will be directly connected to the pump or
if diesel powered will be connected to the pump by a belt drive. These wells
usually have a capacity of 22 to 27 m3/hr. The third type of well is a small
diameter tubewell equipped with strainer. These wells are usually about 45 m
in depth although they may be deeper depending on the depth of the aquifer
and the capacity desired.  These are referred to as medium tubewells and may
have capacities of 32 to 41 m3/hr or more.  These tubewells are also equipped
with centrifugal pumps which may have to be placed in a pit in order to main-
tain a suction lift of 5 m or less which is the maximum practical if the
pump is to be operated efficiently.  Detailed total investment costs of each
of these wells, including pumpsets and water channels, are presented in
Annex 2, Appendix 2-1. Though description of Project investments imply that
individual loans would be for a well plus a persian wheel or pumpset (as
would be the case for the majority of the loans), they would not preclude
lending for just a single item. The Project is expected to finance pumpsets
for both the shallow and medium depth tubewells in the proportion of 80%
diesel and 20% electric operated. Since it is not possible to estimate the
additional electric supplies that would be available to the Project area,
the proportion of diesel and electric pumpsets to be financed is a rough
estimate based on loans for these items sanctioned by the LDB during the past
year, and the number of villages in the Project area which would have elec-
tricity supplies. Project financing of electric and diesel pumpsets would
be determined by farmers' choice and the availability of electricity.
3.03      A masonry well usually yields sufficient water to irrigate about
1 ha, a shallow tubewell about 3 ha, and a medium tubewell about 4 ha. To
make the best use of the available well yields and to avoid over-capitaliza-
tion, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the LDB and participa-
ting commercial banks would encourage their borrowers to serve the size of
area which would fully utilize the yield of the well, either by selling
surplus water or by joint operation with one or more farmers, in the event
their own area is significantly smaller than the area that can be irrigated.
Such water sharing arrangements are in fact quite common and should not pose
a problem in the Project area.



-8-
3.04      Although estimates of the annual groundwater recharge in the
Project area as a whole is more than adequate to supply Project requirements
in addition to existing wells in use (Annex 2), there is a danger of localized
overdevelopment if wells are sited too close together. Under such a situation
and especially where the cones of depression in the water table overlap, some
of the wells may go dry. As in all other states, there is presently no legis-
lation to control groundwater development in UP. However, model legislation
on this subject has been prepared by GOI's Central Groundwater Board and
made available to the states with a view to its enactment by all states in the
near future. Pending the enactment of such legislation it would be a condi-
tion that the State agree to apply well spacing criteria as set out in Sched-
ule B, not only for the Project, but also for all minor irrigation develop-
ment within its direct or indirect control (para 4.03). The State Groundwater
Directorate (SGD) would determine in advance the siting and minimum distance
between wells. This criterion is in accordance with guidelines issued by
GOI's Central Groundwater Board. In addition, SGD should continue to monitor
monthly water level fluctuations in the Project area using the 350 observation
wells it has established in the area. Assurances on these measures were
obtained during negotiations. SGD has adequate and competent staff to
determine spacing r-riteria for the Project area (para 4.19).
3.05      The Minor Irrigation Department has about 1,600 hand operated
rigs in the Project area, and these alone are sufficient to complete the
Project. Project financing of rigs would therefore not be required. In
addition, there are also numerous private contractors who operate drilling
equipment and provide drilling services to farmers (para 3.10).
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.06      EstimateL Project cost, together with foreign exchange require-
rents, 1/ are:
I/   The value of the rupee is now pegged to the pound sterling which is
floating in relation to the US dollar. The conversion rate used in
the cost estimates is Rs 7.5 to US$1.



Rs  Million           US$ Million         %
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
1. Masonry Wells with
Persian wheels          31.0      -     31.0    4.1      -     4.1      -
2. Shallow Tubewells
with Diesel Pumpsets  164.2    8.6   172.8   21.9    1.2   23.1          5
3. Shallow Tubewells
with Electric
Pumpsets                37.2    2.4    39.6    5.0    0.3    5.3         6
4. Medium Depth T.ibewells
with Diesel Pumpsets  231.0   12.2   243.2   30.8    1.6   32.4          5
5. Medium Depth Tubewells
with Electric
Pumpsets                53.8    3.4    57.2    7.2    0.4    7.6         6
Total Project Costs       517.2   26.6   543.8   69.0    3.5   72.5         5
Detailed cost estimates are shown in Annex 2.  Estimates are based on present
prices including a 10% allowance for cost increases which would be adequate.
The allowance is based on an annual price increase of 5% on the estimated
amounts that would be disbursed over the Project period. As in other
agricultural credit projects, no physical contingency is included.
3.07      The total Project cost of Rs 543.8 million (US$72.5 million)
would be financed from the following sources:



- 10 -
Total
Project
Farmers      Lending Banks    ARC            Cost         IDA
% of
Total
Rs    % of    Rs    % of    Rs    % of    Rs           Rs    Project
Million Total Million Total Million Total Million Million   Cost
1. Masonry
Wells
Wells         4.4    20       1.8      8     16.0   72    22.2    11.1         50
Persian
Wheels      0.9    10      0.8      9       7.1   81      8.8      4.4      50
2. Shallow
Tubewells
Wells        20.3    20       8.1     8      73.1   72   101.5    50.8        50
Electric
Pump-
sets /1    1.9    10       1.8      9      15.7   81    19.4    10.9        56
Diesel Pump-
sets /2    9.1    10       8.2      9      74.2   81    91.5    50.0        55
3. Medium Depth
Tubewells
Wells        32.8    20    13.1       8    118.3   72   164.2    82.1         50
Electric
Pump-
sets /3    2.4    10       2.2      9      19.8   81    24.4    13.7        56
Diesel Pump-
sets /4   11.2    10    10.1        9      90.5   81   111.8    62.0        55
Total Project
Costs          83.0    15    46.1        9    414.7   76   543.8   285.0        52
1l   4,000 electric pumpsets each including 5 hp electric motor.
/2   16,000 diesel pumpsets each including 5 hp diesel motor.
13   4,000 electric pumpsets each including 7-1/2 hp electric motor.
/4   16,000 diesel pumpsets each including 7 hp diesel motor.
3.08      The proposed IDA credit of US$38 million (Rs 285 million) would
finance about 52% of total Project cost, and would supply about 70% of
ARC support of the Project (Rs 414.7 million). IDA financing of the total
Project cost is based on (a) the estimated foreign exchange costs and 50% of
the estimated local costs of the Project. IDA financing of foreign exchange



- 11 -
costs would amount to Rs 26.6 million, or about 9% of its total contribution
while local currency financing would total Rs 258.4 million. 1/
3.09      The IDA credit would be on standard terms to GOI which would make
available the proceeds to ARC under a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable
to IDA and partly re-payable at the end of nine years at an interest rate
of 5-1/2% per annum for ultimate loans not exceeding this period (estimated
at about 50% of the total) and partly at the end of 15 years at 6% per annum for
longer maturities; in each case there would be a rebate of 1/4% per annum
for prompt repayment and GOI would bear the exchange risk. ARC would on-
lend to the LDB and participating commercial banks under agreements
acceptable to IDA at an interest rate of 6-1/2% per annum computed on
outstanding indebtedness. LDB and the commercial banks would lend to ultimate
borrowers at a minimum of 9% per annum (para 4.13). Assurances on these
arrangements were obtained during negotiations. This interest rate structure
is in line with the prevailing institutional interest rates for agriculture
and the other sectors of the economy.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.10      The execution of the Project would involve small investment items
and operations on individual farms with purchases spread over a period of
three years, which would be difficult to bulk for centralized procurement to
attract international competitive bidding. Adequate well drilling equipment
and pumpsets, including facilities to service them, are available within the
State and sufficient for Project needs. Prices are competitive. Well
drilling is done by the Minor Irrigation Department and private contractors.
In either case, the usual practice is for the farmer to provide much of the
labor required for drilling. Drilling charges are reasonable and are about
the same for the Department and private contractors. Procurement would
consequently be through normal commercial channels by the individual farmer
according to his choice, as in the case of all IDA credit projects in India
involving minor irrigation works.
Disbursement
3.11      IDA disbursements are expected to extend over 3-1/2 years
(Annex 3). Against appropriate statements, disbursements would on average
be 62% of total expenditures on all loans disbursed by LDB and the partici-
pating commercial banks. 2/ The documentation will not be submitted for review
1/   This financing plan is contingent on the foreign exchange rate used for
conversion (see footnote of para 3.06).
2/   The 62% figure constitutes a weighted average of the following:  62% of
loans for masonry wells, 56% for persian wheels, 63% for shallow tube-
wells, 62% for 5 hp electric pumpsets, 61% for 5 hp diesel pumpsets,
62% for medium tubewells, 63% for 7-1/2 hp electric pumpsets, and 62%
for 7 hp diesel pumpsets.
I



- 12 -
but would be retained by the lending institutions and be available for
inspection by IDA during the course of Project supervision missions.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
4.01      Financing and organization arrangements would follow the pattern
established under the existing IDA-supported agricultural credit projects
which have proven to be satisfactory. The IDA credit to the Government of
India (GOI) would be channelled to the Agricultural Refinance Corporation
(ARC), which would refinance 90% of the lending to ultimate borrowers of the
Uttar Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd. (LDB), and of
participating commercial banks. It is expected that most of the funds would
be lent by LDB, as the commercial banks have yet to establish enough institu-
tional capacity in the rural areas to effectively handle a large number of
minor irrigation loans. The State Groundwater Directorate (SGD) would deter-
mine the spacing for wells, and the Minor Irrigation Department (MID) would
assist in the cor.struction of wells and the proper installation of pumpsets.
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
4.02      ARC, a subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), and described
in detail in Annex 4, is the channel for seven IDA agricultural credit projects
and is therefore well known to IDA. It is a competently managed organization
with a sound financial structure, and its role is important not only as a
channel for development funds, but also for its influence on the lending
policies and operational procedures of the agencies it assists. It refinances
state cooperative land development/mortgage banks (LDBs), state cooperative
banks and scheduled (commercial) banks on the basis of agricultural schemes
which are tecknically feasible, financially justified, and are within a
reasonably compact area. Technical and economic evaluation is performed by
ARC staff or ARC employed consultants. ARC sets standards for project pre-
paration, appraisal and implementation, and thus improves the lending per-
formance and procedures of the institutions assisted. With ARC's guidance,
LDBs have been developing from mere mortgage banks to agricultural develop-
ment banks. In view of the above, and especially its role in institution
building, ARC is a suitable agency for the overall supervision of the Project's
implementation. As in previous credits, an assurance was obtained that
ARC's accounts would be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA.
4.03      ARC would ensure that all lending banks follow the policies,
terms and conditions agreed with IDA (Schedule A). A loan agreement
acceptable to IDA, would be entered into between GOI and ARC (this
agreement incorporating the terms and conditions specified in para 3.09),
and the execution of such an agreement would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. ARC would also enter into subsidiary loan agreements,
acceptable to IDA, with all lending banks. APC would further ensure that
lending banks adhere to the spacing criteria for wells as set forth in
Schedule B. Assurances on these matters were obtained at negotiations.



- 13 -
Uttar Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd. (LDB)
4.04       Incorporation.  The LDB (detailed description in Annex 5) was first
registered in March 1959 as the UP State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank.
Since 1964 it operates under the UP State Cooperative Land Development Banks
Act No. XVI and its name was then amended accordingly to emphasize that its
primary function had been changed from the redemption of debts to lending
for agricultural development. The LDB has a unitary structure with its head
office in Lucknow and 203 branch offices covering 51 of the State's 54 dis-
tricts. It maintains 55 branch offices in the Project area.
4.05      Management and Staff.  LDB's operations are directed by a 15-member
Board of Directors, which consists of 5 members elected at its Annual Meeting
and 10 directors iiominated by the State Government, representing the various
Government departments concerned with the development of irrigation resources
and agricultural production (Annex 5, para 3). The chief executive officer is
the Secretary, the present incumbent being the Deputy Registrar of Cooperative
Societies on deputation since April 1972, who is well qualified for the post.
The total staff as of June 30, 1972 was 1,339 of which 219 were at head office
and 1,120 at the branches; 574 are college graduates many of whom have con-
siderable experience.
4.06       Each branch office is administered by a Branch Manager, who is
supported by a Branch Management Committee of 9 members, 4 of whom are
elected by the shareholders and 5 are government officials. The Committee
is authorized to consider and sanction loan applications up to Rs 8,000;
larger applications have to be forwarded to head office.
4.07       Resources.  LDB's own funds consist of the share capital and
reserves. The paid-up share capital as at June 30, 1972 was Rs 80.60
million (US$10.7 million), of which Rs 19.09 million (24%) was subscribed
by the State Government and Rs 61.51 million (76%) contributed by borrowers,
who are required to buy shares to the extent of 5% of the loan amount
(3% in the case of government subsidized schemes). The reserves, provisions
and undistributed profits totalled Rs 39.7 million (US$5.3 million); its own
capital amounted to 9.5% of total resources. Additional long-term funds
were raised through the issue of three types of debentures: Ordinary
debentures (subscribed mainly by GOI, the UP State Government and other
institutions), outstanding at this date were Rs 916.9 million; rural
debentures (subscribed by farmers and the Reserve Bank of India in the
ratio of 7 to 1) were Rs 15.6 million; and special development debentures
(subscribed by ARC) were Rs 103.3 million. The special development
debentures are expected to have a rising share in future. Short-term
funds are raised by accepting rural deposits and through overdraft facilities
with the UP Cooperative Bank Ltd., and the State Bank of India.
4.08       Operational Results.  LDB's lending operations show a rapid
expansion over recent years; its loan portfolio more than doubled over
the last 3 years irom Rs 425 million (US$56.7 million) in 1969 to Rs 957
million (US$127.6 million) in 1972. Net profits have increased steadily
from Rs 5.9 million (US$0.79 million) in 1969 to Rs 13.0 million (US$1.73
million) in 1972.



- 14 -
4.09      LDB's overdues position, however, has deteriorated over the last
three vears: arrears have increased from 15% to 25% of demand (principal
and interest due) for LDB as a whole. Some of the overdues can be attributed
to the poor harvest during last year's kharif season caused by extensive floods
and the recent drought afflicted kharif season. Inadequate staff for proper
loan appraisal, emphasis on rapid expansion, weak management of branch
offices in some cases, as well as the lack of field staff and poor collection
effort, are other reasons for the overall decline in the loan recovery per-
formance. The position in the Project area is worse than the overall position,
mainly because it is a generally less developed area and more affected by
natural hazards: there the overdues rose from 29% to 38% over the last three
years. The performance of individual branches varies considerably. As of
June 30, 1972, out of the 55 branches in the Project area, 20 had overdues
of 25% or less, 21 between 26% and 40%, and 14 more than 40%. No rescheduling
of loans has been undertaken, and so far no legal action has been taken
against defaulters who are unwilling to pay. However, the arrears position
is considered still manageable as about 55% has been overdue for less than
1 year, and only 10% for more than 3 years.
4.10      Strengt,.ening of LDB.  In the interest of financial discipline and
to bring the downward trend in recovery performance to a halt in order to
maintain LDB's future viability, LDB should have a loan recovery of not less
than 75% of demand (principal and interest due).  The same criterion would
be applied to each of its branches in the Project area during the period of
the Project. LDB would be required to submit a program, acceptable to IDA,
for the improvement of the overdues position so that at least 30 branches in
the Project area would qualify to participate as a condition of credit
effectiveness, and 40 by the end of the first year of Project execution.
LDB as a whole would also be required to maintain an overdues position of
25% or less of demand as a condition of credit effectiveness. In the event
this position is not maintained, and the recovery measures of the 40 branches
in the Project area did not prove as effective as anticipated, the State
Government would provide the LDB with new equity capital to the extent of the
LDB and its individual branch overdues in excess of 25% of demand. Alter-
natively, or in combination with the equity contribution by the State
Government, LDB would use its profits (after allocations have been made to
statutory reserves and other mandatory funds, including normal contributions
to bad debt reserves) to reduce overdues to not more than 25% of demand.
Assurances on these measures were obtained. The capacity and degree of
penetration of this number of branches would be adequate to achieve full
Project implementation within the three-year period envisaged.
4.11      To improve the loan appraisal and follow-up and to implement a
planned, intensive loan recovery program to halt the decline in repayments,
LDB would be required to build up its own field staff at branch level. At
present, LDB relies for appraisal work on government officers (essentially
the Village Level Workers) outside its control (Annex 5, para 16-19), who
are not trained in appraisal techniques and have many other functions to
perform (agricultural extension, organize local government, support crop
campaigns, small saving schemes, family planning, etc.). Moreover, they are
not responsible for the collection of loans appraised by them. In order to



- 15 -
overcome this weakness, LDB has prepared a three-year staff development plan
agreed to by IDA, and providing for:
(a) Recruitment of Field Officers (university graduates in
agriculture) who would work under the direction of the
branch managers on loan appraisal, follow-up and collection.
Field Officers would be recruited on the basis of one for
about 200 loans approved per year, as this is the maximum
number of loans that a Field Officer can be expected to
handle effectively. There would, however, be at least one
Field Officer for every branch except for those branches
in the State's hill Districts and the Bundelkhand area;
(b) Employment of junior agricultural officers (called Kisan
Sewak), who would be equivalent to the Village Level Workers
and would supplement their work in helping farmers with loan
applications, procurement of legal documents, as well as
assist branch managers with loan supervision and collections.
Sufficient Kisan Sewaks will be recruited to ensure that there
would be at least three Kisan Sewaks to assist each Field
Officer;
(c) Appointment of eight Regional Managers, one for each Revenue
Division in the State except the Divisions comprising the
hill Districts and the Bundelkhand area, to supervise the
operations of all branches in the Division and to liaise
with appropriate Government personnel;
(d) Employment of assistant accountants, legal assistants and
other supporting staff in accordance with norms established
by LDB in consultation with ARC; and
(e) Establishment of a Technical Cell at head office, initially
comprising a senior and a junior agricultural economist,
a civil engineer and a geologist, who will be primarily
engaged in the preparation and technical evaluation of
minor irrigation schemes proposed for refinancing by ARC.
4.12      To ensure the successful implementation of the Project, it is
essential that:
(a) One Field Officer and one Kisan Sewak be in position in
every branch in the Project area before effectiveness of
the credit;
(b) Within one year after credit effectiveness, the number of
Field Officers in each branch in the Project area will be
increased in accordance with a staffing scale that will
ensure that no Field Officer has responsibility for more
thar about 200 loans approved per year; and
(c) The Technical Cell be established at head office before
credit effectiveness (para 4.11 e).



- 16 -
Existing training facilities are adequate (Annex 5, para 5) and the required
staff set out above can be recruited without any difficulty. In consultation
with ARC, a staff training plan should, however, be prepared by the LDB for
IDA approval within 6 months of credit effectiveness. Assurances on the
above were obtained. The net income of LDB is sufficient to satisfactorily
meet the estimated additional expenditure of not more than Rs 4 million
annually for the proposed staff increase, and to provide for some reserves.
4.13      Lending Policies and Terms. 1/  The lending rate to ultimate
borrowers would be 9% per annum (it was raised from 8-1/4% to 9% in December,
1971). Farmers' minimum contribution to investment cost would be 10% in the
case of pumpsets and persian wheels and 20% in respect of wells and well
improvements. Investment cost includes the value of the farmer's own labor
priced at prevailing wage rates for farm workers. For lending to small farmers
(definition in Schedule A) who may not be able to raise sufficient funds from
their own resources, the minimum contribution in respect of masonry wells would
be 10%, and for tubewells 15% of investment costs. The borrovers' contribution
always includes the obligatory purchase of LDB share capital xwhich amounts to
Sw of the loan (3% for small farmers), own labor and other contributions in
cash or kind. Repayment periods would be based on the borrowers' repayment
capacity, but would not exceed 7 years for loans for pumpsets and persian
wheels and 9 years for masonry wells or tubewells. Investments of small
farmers, except for pumpsets and persian wheels, could be financed over a
maximum period of 15 years. These and other lending terms are set out in
Schedule A.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that LDB would comply
with the terms in Schedule A, and the well spacing criteria in Schedule B
for Project loans as well as for all similar types of lending outside the
Project.
4.14      Accounts and Auditing.  LDB's accounting system is adequate and
the accounts are complete and properly maintained. The audit is done
by independent auditors of the Cooperative Audit Organization, which reports
to the Finance Department of the State Government. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that the accounts would continue to be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and would be submitted to IDA
within 4 months of the close of the financial year.
Commercial Banks
4.15      There are 19 major commercial banks operating in Uttar Pradesh
of which 2 belong to the State Bank of India group, 12 are nationalized
banks and 5 are banks with private ownership. 16 commercial banks, 6 of
which are lead banks, 2/ have a total of 286 branches in the Project area,
the most important being the State Bank of India (106 branches), the Union
Bank of India (33 branches), the Central Bank of India (32 branches) and the
Allahabad Bank (30 branches).
1/   For present lending terms, see Annex 5, para 14-15.
2/   See explanat1on in Annex 6.



- 17 -
4.16      Since the late 1960's, the major commercial banks have taken an
increasing interest in agricultural lending, although direct lending to
farmers does not usually exceed 7-8% of loan portfolio. They have opened
and continue to open new branches in rural areas. Interest rates vary from
8.5% to 11% per annum, but are usually around 10% for medium-term agricultural
loans. Repayment periods for this loan category range from 3 to 7 years
and farmers contribute from 10% to 25% of investment costs. All lending
institutions take a mortgage over the land, but collection records are
generally very poor; they range from 40% to 60% of demand with only one of
the lead banks achieving 72%. Postponement of maturity dates and rescheduling
of loans have frequently been conceded. The banks could not, in the near
future, provide an effective alternative to LDB, but it is anticipated that
about six of them will be in a position to participate in the Project, thus
supplementing the operations of the LDB and providing alternative banking
facilities to farmers.
4.17      As with all previous IDA supported agricultural credit projects,
ARC would invite commercial banks to participate in the Project on the same
terms, policies and conditions as LDB. Assurances were obtained from ARC
that only tYose commercial banks capable of effective implementation of
agricultural loan operations would be allowed to participate. The suitability
of the banks would be determined on the basis of past performance in agricul-
tural lending, including number of branches in rural areas, adequacy of
qualified staff and loan collection records. ARC would require participating
commercial banks to maintain separate accounts for Project lending and
would ensure that such accounts were audited by auditors acceptable to IDA.
The State CGoundwater Directorate and Minor Irrigation Department
4.18      The State Groundwater Directorate (SGD) and the Minor Irrigation
Department (MID) are the two organizations concerned with the development
of minor irrigation works in the State. Both organizations are under the
administration of the Commissioner of Agricultural Production and Rural
Development.
4.19      The SGD is concerned with investigation of groundwater resources.
This work involves test drilling to determine the location and extent of
aquifers, their hydrologic characteristics and quality of water. Observation
wells are used to monitor monthly water level fluctuations, and there are
350 such wells in the Project area. SGD, with a head office in Lucknow and
three divisional offices, is run by qualified and experienced officers,
and has adequate and competent staff to oversee the well spacing criteria
required for the Project area (para 3.04). So as not to hamper its present
work in areas outside the Project and to permit more intensive studies of
deep aquifers, the relationship of ground and surface water, and evaluation
of the recharge of aquifers outcropping near the Himalayan foothills, a plan
to expand the staff and reorganize the SGD is under consideration by the
State Government. The plan envisages an addition of 35-40 scientists or
about doubling the numbers presently employed, and the creation of additional
divisions. However, in view of the planned expansion of staff, many of whom



- 18 -
will be inexperienced officers, SGD will require that two experienced geohy-
drologists be assigned to it from GOI's Central Groundwater Board 1/ to assist
in the training of these officers. The two geohydrologists should be in post
by the date of ciedit effectiveness, and would remain with the SGD for the
duration of the Project. The State Government would request the services
of these geohydrologists from the Central Groundwater Board. Assurances on
these arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
4.20      MID's primary function is the construction of tubewells.  With
a head office in Lucknow and 12 divisional offices, the Department has
a total staff of about 70 professionals, mainly engineers, and some 2,000
non-professionals. The Devartment is adequately staffed and run by
qualified and experienced senior officers. It has more than 4,000 drilling
rigs, most of which are hand operated, and there are enough of them in
the Project area alone to complete the Project (para 3.05). MID's
Assistant Development Officers, Minor Irrigation (ADOMI), assisted by
mechanics and laborers, are responsible for the operation of the rigs.
Under the Project, the MID would be required to certify that the equipment
associated with the development of a well, e.g. pumpset, is suitable and
has beeTn properly installed. An assurance on this was obtained.
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
Production
5.01      Under the Project, about 150,000 ha would be irrigated which would
allow at least 70,000 farmers to (a) obtain more reliable and higher yields
during the kharif season and from areas which are subject periodically to
drought conditions and uncertain rainfall; and (b) increase the cropping
intensity fror ibout 110% before development to 180% at full development.  At
current prices, illustrative farm models have been developed to demonstrate
that Project farmers are expected to expand output mainly of foodgrains (wheat,
rice, maize, jowar or sorghum, and field pea), sugarcane, and potatoes.  ;nnual
increases in production at full development have been estimated at about
233,000 tons of wheat, 146,000 tons of paddy, 52,000 tons of maize, 22,000
tons of field pea, 11,000 tons of jowar, 350,000 tons of sugarcane, and
125,000 tons of potatoes. The production increases would, however, partly
be at the expense of a reduction of about 42,000 tons of the less remunerative
crops, such as barley, ahar and gram. Details of the changes in acreage and
output of the individual crops are given in Annex 8.
5.02      Taking into account the output of the less remunerative crops that
would be foregone, the estimated net incremental output during the first
1!   The Central Groundwater Board is an amalgamation of the groundwater wing
of the Geological Survey of India and the former Exploratory Tubewell
Organization.



- 19 -
year of Project implementation and for the following 5 year period when all
Project farms would attain full development production, would be:
1st        2nd        3rd       4th      5th     6th (full de-
Year       Year       Year      Year    Year      velopment) Year
(tons)
Foodgrain      71,000   177,000   304,000   374,000  409,000         423,000
Sugarcane      58,000   146,000   251,000   310,000  339,000          350,000
Potato         21,000    52,000    90,000   111,000  122,000          125,000
These estimates are based on the following assumptions:  (a) total Project
investments would be implemented equally over a 3-year period; and (b) a
Project farm would achieve 50% of full development production in the first
year, 75% in the second year, 90% in the third year, and 100% only in the
fourth and subsequent years.  The annual increase in UP's foodgrain production
averaged about 6% during the years 1967/68 - 1971/72. An annual rate of
some 5'% is projected for the next decade. Project incremental output at full
development representing about 2% of the State's average annual production
for the most recent 3-year period 1969/70 - 1971/72 (18.1 million tons),
would therefore be a significant contribution to the efforts by the State to
achieve a faster rate of increase in the output of foodgrains.
Marketing
5.03      UP is still in a net deficit position for all foodgrains as a group.
Based on present consumption needs and for seed, the State would have to
produce about 22 million tons of foodgrains in order to be self sufficient.
Even during its best crop year in 1970/71 when an estimated 19.5 million tons
were produced, aided to a significant extent by favorable weather conditions,
the amount still fell short of domestic needs. Project incremental output
would therefore most likely be consumed within the State.
5.04      Most farmers sell their produce at any one of the 63 regulated
main and submarkets which are well spread throughout the Project area.
(The State has at present about 250 main markets and 400 submarkets). Project
farmers would have no difficulty in marketing their output as there are suf-
ficient markets and all the main markets operate 5 days a week throughout the
year with distances from most villages to a market in the Project area seldom
exceeding 20 km, which can be covered by bullock carts in a day. These regu-
lated markets ensure that fair marketing practices prevail and farmers are
able to sell at competitive prices (Annex 7). However, many markets have
poor physical facilities, especially for storage and grading. With
increasing market arrivals and limited physical facilities, congestion is
becoming a serious problem for some of the markets as this tends to hamper
the marketing function leading to higher marketing costs. Substantial in-
vestments to improve these facilities would therefore be required, and plans
to carry out significant improvements in existing facilities, as well as
provision of additional marketing services, such as market research,



- 20 -
intelligence and extension, and staff expansion have already been drawn up.
IDA recently appraised a proposal submitted by the State Government to expand
and improve marketing facilities throughout the State, including the Project
area.
5.05      The Project area is well served by both rail and arterial road sys-
tems. Rural roads. which reach to almost all villages, are usually rough
and unsurfaced, btit are adequate for the purpose of delivering inputs and
exporting farm products surplus to local requirements. All main markets and
the large consumption centers in UP are linked by a network of roads, and
many of these markets are also located near railway lines.
Prices
5.06      The GOI continues to encourage agricultural production, particu-
larly of foodgrains, through price incentives, and by making available
increased quantities of new and improved agricultural inputs. As in all
other states, UP establishes minimum support prices for the main foodgrains,
especially wheat and rice, as recommended by GOI's Agricultural Prices Com-
mission. The State Government sets minimum prices which it considers would
give a fair return to the farmer. Current prices received by farmers for
the various crops grown under the Project are shown in Annex 9, Appendix 9-1.
Projected world market prices where available for several of the Project
crops have been used to estimate the economic rate of return (para 6.02).
Farmers' Benefits
5.07      Incremental production and incomes of farms under the Project
would be substantial. Financial returns and income to farmers have been
estimated on the basis of illustrative sample farm models (Annex 9). On the
basis of investment costs, estimated yields, and current prices shown in
the models, farn incomes (including returns to family labor) after debt service,
would increase as follows at full development:



- 21 -
I             II           III          IV            V
Masonry        Shallow      Shallow      Medium       Medium
Well          Tubewell      Tubewell    Tubewell    Tubewell
Model         with           with          with         with         with
Type of           Persian        Diesel       Electric    Diesel        Electric
Investment        Wheel          Pumpset      Pumpset      Pumpset      Pumpset
Irrigated Area      1 ha          2 ha           2 ha        4 ha         4 ha
Investment Cost  Rs 2,810       Rs 9,800     Rs 9,000   Rs 13,800    Rs 13,000
Net Income (Rs)
At Present            380           860           860        1,460        1,460
At Full
Development /1        950         3,070         3,580        5,710        6,500
Increment             570         2,210         2,720       4,250         5,040
Increment TLi-
cluding Returns
to Family Labor       990         2,630         3,140       5,230         6,020
Debt Service
(Principal and
Interest)             410         1,540         1,400       2,130         1,990
Increment after
Debt Service          580         1,090         1,740       3,100         4,030
Financial Rate
of Return /2            17%           20%           32%          30%           41%
/1   Full development commences in the fourth year.
/2   The financial rates of return should not be looked at in relation to
the investment cost and net incremental income figures in this table
as the figures are incomplete for the purpose of estimating the financial
rates of return. For details on which the rates of return have been
estimated, see Annex 9.
The five farm models show that significant increases in the net incomes of
farmers would result from the Project investments, even on the 1 ha farm
(Model I), when combined with the use of improved seeds, fertilizers, and
other inputs which can reasonably be expected. To the farmer, use of
electricity is cheaper than diesel. This is because the excise tax on diesel
is high and the electricity tariff rate for agricultural purposes being heavily
subsidized, is low. Farmers who are able to use electric pumpsets because
electricity supplies are available, can therefore expect a significantly higher
return than those who use diesel pumpsets as shown by the models. In estimating
the financial rates of return to Project investments, it is necessary that
family labor be valued and included in the cost estimates. For this purpose,
family labor has been given an imputed value at prevailing market wage rates
for farm labor. On moderately well managed farms, which are common in the
Project area, the financial rates of return have been estimated to range from



- 22 -
17% to 41% at current producer prices (Annex 10). With rising production
trends and as the country as a whole progresses towards self-sufficiency in
foodgrain production, some decline in price levels of foodgrains can be
expected, though it is unlikely that GOI and particularly the State Government
would permit any significant reduction in prices. Nevertheless, to account
for this, the sensitivity of the returns has been tested assuming a high 25%
decline in net incremental incomes. This resulted in rates of return ranging
from 10% to 28%.
5.08      As in all other states, farmers in UP do not pay any agricultural
income tax, so that the Project would not therefore generate any direct
tax to be collected from the estimated incremental incomes. However, some
tax benefits would accrue to GOI and the State Government through sales
and excise taxes imposed on some of the equipment financed by the Project
as well as on certain production inputs used by Project farmers (para 6.01).
Under the Project, the level of investments and the estimated expansion in
crop production through increases in yields and cropping intensity, can be
expected to generate additional employment, both family and paid labor,
amounting to an estimated 21.4 million man days a year.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Investments under the Project would benefit at least 70,000 farmers,
including those who can manage to purchase the surplus water which Project
borrowers would have available and who do agree to sell. Benefits to the
Indian economy would include: (a) reduced instability in agricultural
production; (b) an annual increment in crop production at full development
of about Rs 348 million as a result of greater intensity in land use and
shifts to more labor intensive and higher value crops; and (c) more year-round
and increased employment of labor (para 5.08). Revenue accruing to GOI and
the State Governmnint from the excise and sales taxes levied on Project equip-
ment would amount to about Rs 21 million, and on production inputs at full
development an estimated Rs 26 million a year. The Project would also help
GOI move closer towards its goal of self sufficiency in foodgrains.
6.02      Projected (1980) world market prices and assumptions about labor costs
used in estimating the economic rates of return, are given in Annex 11. These
prices are available for wheat, paddy, maize, sorghum, sugarcane, and barley.
With the exc-ption of sugarcane, they are lower than current producer prices.
Making the appropriate adjustments in respect of taxes and subsidies, and
using an imputed value for labor based on its opportunity costs which are
subject to seasonal variations, as well as taking projected world market
prices for 1980, the economic rates of return for the Project components
would range from 16% to 35% (Annex 11, Appendix 11-1).
6.03      Small farms of 2 ha or less comprise about three-fourths of all
farms in the Project area. Since approximately 50,000 or 70% of Project
beneficiaries are expected to belong to this group, a significant proportion
of the financial and economic benefits from the Project would accrue to
small farmers. Furthermore, substantial numbers of even smaller farms (1 ha)



- 23 -
would be able to participate profitably in the Project. Significant increases
in farm incomes as well as increased employment opportunities for family
labor (model I, para 5.07), indicate that investments in groundwater development
in the Project area would be attractive. Given the relative abundance and ease
of groundwater development, the exploitation of this resource would be an
effective contribution to the development of the Project area.
6.04      The Project would also generate benefits, which have not been
included in the return calculations, in the form of value added from increased
production on farms which purchase surplus water from Project farms and from
expanded marketing activities, the strengthening of the lending institutions,
demonstration effect on other farms, and more year-round employment for farm
labor.
6.05      In order to improve future project appraisal, it is necessary to
measure the financial and economic benefits which actually result from the
investment. Consequently, it was agreed at negotiations that ARC would
utilize the machinery it has already established for monitoring and evaluating
the financial and economic benefits of this Project.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  the State Government would apply well spacing criteria as
set out in Schedule B, not only for the Project, but also
for all minor irrigation development within its direct
or indirect control (para 3.04);
(b)  lending banks would adhere to the spacing criteria for
wells set forth in Schedule B, and follow agreed lending
policies, terms and conditions detailed in Schedule A
(para 4.03); and
(c)  LDB, with the assistance of the State Government and ARC,
would complete the financial and managerial rehabilitation
program of the LDB (paras 4.10-4.12).
7.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and
ARC acceptable to IDA (para 4.03);
(b)  The LDB as a whole and at least 30 branches in the Project
area would have overdues positions of 25% or less (para 4.10);



- 24 -
(c)  The LDB have one Field Officer and one Kisan Sewak in every
branch in the Ptoj4ct area, and that a Technical Cell be
established at its head office before credit effectiveness
(para 4. 12); and
(d)  Two geohydrologfsts from the Central Groundwater Board
would be ags6iged to the SG0i, and they should be in post
by the date of credit effectiveness and would remain
with the SGD for the dutation of the Ptoject (para 4.19).
7.03      the   oposed iro6ect iA Iutlitbi  for an IDA ctedit of US$38 million
under standard IDA terms.
April 12, 1973



SCHEDULE A
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions would be used in implementing
the Project and would not be altered without the prior agreement of IDA:
1.        GOI to ARC
(a) In respect of ARC refinancing not exceeding 9 years:
(M) interest rate of not less than 5-1/2% per annum less
1/4% per annum for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years;
(b) In respect of ARC refinancing in excess of 9 but not
exceeding 15 years:
Mi) interest rate of not less than 6% per annum less
1/4% per annum for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years;
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
2.        ARC to Lending Banks (LDB and Commercial Banks)
(a) Interest rate not less than 6-1/2% per annum:
(b) Repayments in installments set to coincide approximately
with collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) Refinancing would be by way of purchase of debentures
or by loans at the rate of 90% of individual loans.
3.        LDB and Commercial Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) Interest rate not less than 9% per annum;
(b) Farmers' contributions (including obligatory purchase of
LDB shares, own labor, and other contributions in cash
or kind):



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
(i)  for normal lending a minimum of 107 of the investment
costs in the case of pumpsets and persian wheels and
20% for wells and well improvements;
(ii) fo; lending to small farmers, 1/ a minimum of 10% of
the investnent costs in the case of pumpsets,
persian wheels and masonry wells and 15% in tihe
case of tubewells;
(c) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's
repayment capacity, but not to exceed:
(i) for normal lending, a maximum of:
(a)  7 years on loans for pumpsets or persian
wheels, whether financed as individual loans
or included in masonry well loans: and
(b)  9 years on loans for masonry wells, masoniry
well improvements and tubewells;
(ii)  for lending to small farmers as defined, a maximum of:
(a)  7 years on loans for pumpsets or persian
wheels, whether financed as individual loans
or included in masonry well loans; and
(b)  15 years for all other minor irrigation loans;
(d)  Technical standards, in particular spacing criteria, as
laid down by the State Groundwater Directorate and the
'inor Irrigation Department are to be observed on all
loans:
(e) investments would be evaluated in terms of incremental
returns resulting from the additional investments in
accordance with evaluation methods developed by ARC;
1/   Small farmers have been defined, in accordance with criteria agreed
with IDA, as those farmers cultivating an amount of land which provides
them with an annual net income (after cultivation costs but before debt
service) of Rs 2400 or less but with sufficient land to permit an
incremental income from the proposed investment at least high enough
to meet the principal and interest payments on a loan from that invest-
ment. This formula is applied on an individual scheme basis by ARC.
Lending to one individual small farmer would be limited to Rs 10,000,
but small farmers could participate in joint investments where their
share of the total investment cost did not exceed Rs 10,000 each.



SCHEDULE A
Page 3
(f)  Security for loans would be taken in accordance with
arrangements between participating banks and ARC;
(g) The borrower would be encouraged to sell water surplus to
his needs, or to participate with one or more farmers in
a joint investment and operation of an energized tubewell
in the event his own cultivated area is significantly
smaller than the area that can be adequately irrigated
by the tubewell concerned; and
(h) The same terms and conditions would apply to similar types
of lending outside the Project.
April 12, 1973






SCHEDULF B
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Spacing of Wlells
In order to avoid the danger of over-development of groundwater
supply, the minimum spacing of wells shall be determined for any area by
the following formula:
C
Rx Ax 10o
S = 1000   rx 100
where:    S = Distance between wells in meters.
R = Irrigation requirement for the average cropping
pattern in the area in mm.
A = Size of the area to be irrigated in ha.
C = Cropping intensity.
r = Estimated annual recharge in mm.
Example of application of the above formula: Assuming that the irrigation
requirement of an average cropping pattern with a cropping intensity of 175%
would be 685 mm, and the estimated recharge from precipitation would be 190 mnm,
the minimum spacing would therefore be 475 m.
April 12, 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Background
Uttar Pradesh
1.        Situated within the northeastern part of the Indian landmass to
the east of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh occupies the upper-central portion of the
Ganges Plain.  Tibet and Nepal lie to the northeast; and the states of
Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar lie to the
northwest, west, southwest, south and east respectively.  It is the
heaviest populated and fourth largest Indian State, with an area of
294,370 sq km. The population in 1971 was 88.37 million, equivalent to
16% of the whole population of India, and the density amounts to 300 persons
per sq km -- the highest of any state in the Indian Union.
2.        Only 14% of the population, equivalent to 12.4 million persons
is urban -- a figure which has increased by 31% in the past 10 years. 75%
of the working population is engaged in agriculture, either as agricultural
labor or farners, and about 58% of the total State income in recent years
has been generated within the agricultural sector. About 20% of the total
working population are landless farm laborers, almost double the percentage
ten years earlier.
3.        The per capita income for the State has fluctuated between 10
and 20% below the national level during the last decade, and was Rs 515
compared with a national per capita income of Rs 589 in 1969-70. Regional
income disparities within the State are considerable. The Eastern Region,
the boundary of which is closely coincident with the Project area, is one
of three economically backward regions, and its backward condition is
attributed primarily to its especially dense population, smaller farms
and the lessor availability of irrigation facilities resulting in lower
land productivity.
4.        The rate of growth in terms of both total State income and per
capita income lagged behind the corresponding rate for the country as a
whole during the first three Plan periods and the subsequent three annual
plans but the percentage rise in total income has equalled the national
average during the first two years of the (current) Fourth Plan. Furthermore,
percentage increase in per capita income has actually exceeded the all India
figure during these two years because of the relatively lower growth rate
in population of the State during these years.
5.        Agricultural sector income, which rose by only 0.4% per annum,
mainly due to unfavourable weather conditions during the third plan, and
increased by 3.6% during the three Annual Plans, has recently shown a
further encouraging increase of 5.2% during the first two years of the
Fourth Plan.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        Foodgrain production, which fluctuates considerably from year to
year in response to weather conditions, has shown a satisfactory upward
trend in recent years, and reached a record 19.5 million tons in 1970-71.
In contrast, 1971-72 has been disappointing, due to serious floods in
September and October 1971 which destroyed or damaged much of the kharif
season crop and reduced the total output for the crop year to 17.5 million
tons. Nevertheless this is the second highest production figure to be
recorded, and in spite of a severe drought in August 1972 which affected
the 'kharirf season crops in large parts of the State, the 1972-73 crop year
shows good promise.
7.        In 1969-70, the latest year for which complete figures are
available, the net area sown amounted to 16.9 million ha, of which 5.3
million ha were sown more than once, thus giving a gross cropped area of
22.2 million ha equivalent to a 131.5% cropping intensity. In the last
10 years, the net sown area has risen by only 0.3 million ha, while the
area sown more than once has risen by more than 1.0 million ha. These
figures reflect the increased extent of double cropping which is taking
place against a background of limited availability of land suitable for
extending the net cultivated area, and the steady expansion to the net
irrigated area.
8.        The improved irrigation facilities both public and private have
stimulated the more extensive use of higher yielding, fertilizer responsive,
varieties of crops, particularly wheat and to a lesser extent paddy and
maize. These improvements are in the main restricted to those farmers
fortunate enough to be able to take advantage of the improved irrigation
facilities, either because they are sited close to a public tubewell or
canal, or because they can afford to equip themselves with the necessary
irrigation devices, either by direct purchase or with the aid of a loan.
The lack of ready cash and the problems experienced in raising mortgages
against loan-s !.Rve in the past effectively excluded a large proportion of
the smaller farmers from these improvements, and the pattern of improvement
is in consequence extremely patchy, with large numbers of farmers and ex-
tensive areas of farmland as yet little affected by the advent of the green
revolution.
9.        The most spectacular increase in crop area has been in the
rabi season, with wheat increasing from 3.3 to 5.5 million ha, partly at
the expense of other rabi crops, in the two decades up to 1970. Kharif
cereals have also shown a satisfactory increase, with paddy rising from
3.9 to 4.4 million ha in the same period. Sugarcane, a major cash crop
which responds well to improved irrigation, has also shown a gradual rise
although the yields are still much below those obtained in most other
states. Likewise oilseeds, particularly groundnut, and potato, have
increased. Production of pulses, an essential group of protein foods in a
State where a very high proportion of the population are vegetarian, has
been much less sat4sfactory, with a decline from 4.3 to 4.0 million ha,
in the last twenty years, and a consequent lower per capita consumption
of this important traditional food.



ANN4EX 1
Page 3
10.       While gross area and production of several important crops have
increased in recent years, the yields are in most cases below or only on a
par with the all-India averages, with the exception of pulses for which
Uttar Pradesh yields are highest. The small size of the average farm, and
the limited extent to which extension services and adequate inputs have
been available, particularly to the small farmer; as well as the vagaries
and inadequacy of the rainfall over a large part of the State, are con-
tributory factors to this state of affairs.
11.       The State Government is well aware of these constraints, and its
plans for accelerated economic development, as expressed in a recently
published approach paper to the Fifth Plan, give considerable emphasis
to extending and improving the irrigation system, which is recognized as
the key to a more prosperous agricultural sector in the State. Better
irrigation of the generally fertile soils will permit more intensive
cropping, encourage use of superior seeds, and produce higher yields, and
a 6% annual increase in production is proposed as the minimum target for
the Fifth Plrn.
12.       Special attention will be given to the needs of the small grower,
and to price policies designed to encourage production of certain crops.
The recently established U.P. Institute of Agricultural Sciences at
Kanpur, modelled on the U.S. Land Grant Colleges, which has brought about
a closer relationship between research, education and agricultural exten-
sion, is already making a useful contribution towards upgrading the quality
of extension. The emphasis being given by this Institute to farmers' train-
ing programs and seminars for Village Level Workers at the district level,
and to the production of vernacular extension publications and regular radio
extension programs, is already having a favorable impact on the agricul-
tural community and its level of awareness of new agricultural techniques.
Project Area
13.       The Project area comprises 14 districts, totalling 73,846 sq km
and occupies a contiguous block of land in the eastern part of the State,
bounded by the border with Nepal on the north, Bihar State on the east, and
roughly demarcated by the Gomti River, a tributary of the Ganga (Ganges)
River on the west and south.
14.       The area is essentially agricultural with a very dense population
(383 persons per sq km compared with the State average of 300), and a
higher percentage of rural to total population than is the case for the
State as a whole. In consequence, the average land ownership size of
cultivating households is particularly small, with almost half (48%) of
the land holdings being less than 1 ha in size as compared with 38% for
the entire State (Appendix 1-1).
15.       The pattern of land use is surprisingly uniform throughout the
area, considering its size and the wide variety of crops which are grown
on even the smallest farms, and this uniformity reflects the relatively
homogeneous physical conditions which prevail throughout the area, details
of which are summarized below.



AlNEX 1
Page 4
16.       Climate.  The area experiences a subtropical monsoon climate with
the main rains averaging more than 800 mm in all parts of the area and
over 1,000 mm in some northern districts, occurring during the period
June to September. This rainfall peak corresponds to the kharif crop
season, when a range of tropical crops suited to the hot, humid conditions
then prevailing are grown. This is succeeded by a cooler, drier period,
between October and February, when the winds blow from the Himalayan
region on the north.  This period corresponds to the rabi crop season,
when crop's of a temperate type are grown, and when irrigation is a special
boon. Finally, during March, April and early May a period of warm, dry
weather is experienced, especially on the southern side of the area,
referred to as the Zaid, or summer season, when a small amount of short-
term vegetable farming is undertaken, particularly by those farmers who
have a reliable irrigation source and who are situated in close proximity
to a ready market.
17.       Temperatures vary through the year from a minimum of about 4°C in
January to a maximum of 43-45°C in midyear. Normal annual rainfall varies
from as high as 1,360 mm in the northeast of the area (Gorakhpur District) to
as little as 960 mm in the southwest (Lucknow District). The precipitation
isohyets run through the area in a northwest-southeast direction, parallel
with the edge of the Himalayan Mountain ranges along the Nepal Border.
18.       Soils.  The Project area lies entirely within the Ganges Plain,
and the soils are developed over the deep alluvium deposited by the
northern tributaries of the Ganges River, principally the Gomti, Ghaghra
and Rapti Rivers and their numerous subsidiary streams, which are
continually depositing fresh material eroded from the soft, often highly
dolomitic rocks of the Himalayan Ranges.
19.       The soils are essentially basic in character, and are highly
productive, to --he extent that the area ranks as one of the most fertile
regions in the country. They have been subject to cultivation for many
centuries and are capable of much higher sustained yield cultivation in
the future, provided heavier fertilizer dressings and improved irrigation
facilities are made available.
20.       The soils are not readily correlated with alluvial soils from
other parts of the world, on account of their often strongly developed
zonal features, including distinct illuviation leading to development
of lime or sesquioxide rich horizons and strong natural clay pans in the
case of the more mature profiles. These soils, which may be close to
neutral or even acid at the surface, have been pedogenetically described
as tropical brown earths, and are most frequently found on the flat,
sometimes slightly elevated surfaces between the main drainage channels
as distinct from the more recent soils, of more alkaline reaction,
occurring closer to the present rivers and streams.
21.       Towards the northern part of the area, near the foothills of
the Himalayan Ranges, the soils are a little coarser in texture and have



ANNEX 1
Page 5
higher organic matter contents in their natural state. Owing to their
more open structure they more readily lose their reserves of accumulated
nutrients, and are accordingly more responsive to fertilizers, particularly
nitrogen and phosphate, after continuous periods of intense cultivation.
The climate is more moist in this part of the area, which is known as the
Eastern Tarai, and in consequence the watertable is closer to the surface
for muclh of the year. Sugarcane is an important crop in this zone.
'22.       Near the southern boundary of the area, where the annual rainfall
is below 1,000 mm, as in parts of Lucknow, Sultanpur and Azamgarh Districts,
patches of saline alkali soil occur in slight depressions in the almost
level plain. These patches, which cover only a small proportion of each of
the above Districts, but are much more widespread in the southwestern part
of the Ganges Plain outside the Project area, are often sterile and remain
uncultivated. Irrigation of these areas would be of little value unless
measures are also taken to ameliorate the land by provision of drainage,
ripping of the subsoil pan and the use of an acidifying amendment. Such
measures, the economics of which would require a separate study, are not
proposed under the Project.
23.       Additional irrigation facilities within the developed farmland
portions of the Project area, as proposed under the Project, are unlikely
to have any serious adverse effect on the general ecology of the area or
the surrounding regions. The groundwater reserves and recharge capacities
are adequate to meet the increased demands arising from the Project, and
the restricted locale within which the water from each well would be utilized,
with little prospect of surplus runoff for reasons of operating economy,
would not add materially to the incidence of flooding or to the degree of
waterlogging In the less elevated areas.
24.       The ready access to new sources of potable water afforded by
the Project will have a beneficial effect on human and animal health and
well being which will be over and above the economic benefits arising
througlh the increase in agricultural productivity.
25.       Agriculture.  Within a total Project area of 7.4 million ha,
the net area sown in 1968-69 amounted to approximately 4.8 million ha, of
which 1.6 million ha, almost exactly one third, were sown more than once,
equivalent to a cropping intensity of about 134%. In addition, about 0.25
million ha were under miscellaneous crops, mainly orchard, not included
in the sown area, and about 0.37 million ha were under fallow. Most of
the remaining area was variously utilized as forest (0.4 million ha),
barren lands and cultural waste (0.5 million ha), or devoted to non-
agricultural use (0.7 million ha; Appendix 1-2).
26.       Figures for the 1961 agricultural census reveal that almost
half the 3.55 million cultivating households owned less than one hectare
of land, and most of the remainder owned between one and five hectares,
giving a total of 95% of all cultivating households in these two categories.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
27.       Farm size and owmership patterns are unlikely to have changed
very materially during the past decade, except in so far as ;a vigorously
implemented land reform program may have reduced the number of farms
above 5 ha.  The relatively small area of sucih redistributed farmlands is
unlikely to have made a substantial contribution towards increasing the
average fari size, and much of the beneficial effects of such reform is
likelv to have been offset by a further subdivision of the smdller land
hioldings under the prevailing conditions of populaticn pressure and land
nUunger.  The snall size of the average farm within the Project area as
compared witht the remainder of Uttar Pradesh is recognized bw the State
Government as being a prime cause of the economically backwa,rd condition
of the area, and an increase in the area irrigated, supplemented by an
improvement in the efficiency of many of the existing irriaation facilities,
is acknowledOed to be a most effective way of increasing the productivity
of the land and thus of improving the income of the average farmer in this
hiihly congested and as yet under-irrigated region.
28.       Area statistics for the principal crops show that approximately
one million ha more land is cultivated in the kharif, or mair rains season
(June to September). than in the rabi, or cool dry season (01trober to
February).  A third, hotter season, knowm as the Zaid, or hot dry season
(Mlarch, April and 'May), is occasionally used to grow short-term vegetable
crops, particularly near the towns, but the aggregate area is very small,
being estimated at less than 25,000 ha in 1969.
29.       The principal crops grown in the kharif are rice (aore than
2.0 million ha in an average year) wilich is largely rainfed; and maize
(over 0.5 million ha); together with jowar and a variety of itndigelnous
millets (bajra, s-wan and kodon) having an aggregate area of a little under
0.5 m ha.
30.       Irrigation is not so important in the klarif, when rainfall is
abundant, as i- is in the rabi, but some supplemental irrigation is used,
particularly dur1ing the drier years or if the rains are late, whien irrigation
of the paddy nurseries can be crucial, or to extend the growing season
beyond the end of the rairs.  It is likely that supplement.l irrigation
in the kharif will become more important, as the advantages of maintaining
optimal moisture conditions for the higher yielding, more management -
responsive varieties of paddy and maize become more widelv appreciated.
31.       The main rabi crops are whieat (1.3 million ha in 1970), of which
about 60f. is currently irrigated; barley (0.6 million ha), of which about
66J receives irrigation; and bengal gram (0.5 million ha), about 20% of
which is irrigated.  Field peas are also grown extensively (0.3 million
ha), almost 85% of which is irrigated.  Arhar (pigeon pea) and masur
(lentil), traditional crops formerly much more important, but now being
gradually replaced by the other crops indicated above whichi respond more
readily to irrigation, are still grown to the extent of 0.2 million ha.
32.       The total area of irrigated rabi foodgrains in 1970 amounted
to 1.6 million ha, equivalent to 90% of the net estimated irrigated area
from all sources within the Project area, and a good 4ndication of the



ANNEX 1
Page 7
extent to which irrigation is being utilized during the rabi season. A
further 1.3 million ha of rabi foodgrains are grown without benefit of
irrigation, and in consequence yield very much lower; while an additional
area of at least another 1.3 million ha, representing the difference between
the kharif foodgrain cropped area and the area sown more than once (1.6
million ha), represents an additional theoretical potential for future
irrigation in the rabi.
33.       In addition, there are about 0.37 million ha of sugarcane, a
year round crop which is normally ratooned to give a second crop in the
following year, and which is only 60% irrigated. Oil seeds account for a
further 0.14 million ha, while a still small (0.05 million ha in 1970), but
rapidly increasing and entirely irrigated area is devoted to potato - a
high value, labor-intensive crop which is becoming popular with many of
the larger and more heavily capitalized farmers.
34.       The backward condition of a majority of the farmers and
especially the smaller farmers in the Project area arises in large part
from the difficulty they experience in taking advantage of the new agri-
cultural technology embodied in the green revolution. In the recent past,
the area has lagged behind in terms of irrigation partly because of the
inability of the farmers to equip themselves with the necessary facilities,
and in part because the area, being in a higher rainfall zone than most
other parts of the State, was formerly in less obvious need of such facili-
ties. The recently introduced higher yielding varieties, especially wheat,
maize, and paddy, which require more carefully controlled growing conditions,
including moisture, have emphasized the need for improved irrigation,
and the Project is designed to meet part of this need.
35.       The irrigation improvements arising from the Project will need
to be accompanied by an increased availability of higher yielding seed
varieties, and by fertilizers without which the productivity of the land
will inevitably fall as the nutrient reserves are reduced under the
heavier cropping regime. The responsibilities for ensuring that these
inputs are available on time, and in sufficient quantity, lies with the
Directorate of Agriculture and the cooperatives, both of which have an
extensive network of distribution depots in the Project area.
36.       Agricultural extension, which is particularly necessary when
irrigation systems are being introduced, and new seed varieties calling
for radical changes in field management by small farmers of strongly
traditional outlook, will be provided by the Directorate of Agriculture,
augmented by the highly competent extension specialists on the staff of the
new Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Kanpur.
37.       Additional labor needs arising from the more intensive cropping
patterns adopted under the Project can be adequately met fron the existing
supply of rural labor, which includes a high degree of under-employed
labor within existing farm households, as well as a considerable, but



ANNEX 1
Page 8
difficult to determine, number of unemployed farm laborers throughout the
rural areas. Animal power, which is abundant throughout the area, should
be sufficient to meet most of the increased cultivation demands arising from
the higher cropping intensity. Farmers with irrigation facilities report
no difficulty in hiring supplementary bullock power from neighbors who lack
such facilities. Land levelling is seldom necessary as the terrain is
naturally extremely level throughout the area.
38.       Irrigated and non-Irrigated Agricultural Systems.  The agricul-
tural statistics published by the Directorate of Agriculture do not
indicate the full extent of the differences in cropping patterns and yields
obtained from irrigated and non-irrigated lands within the Project area,
although several detailed studies of groups of farms in small areas under-
taken by staff of the ARC Regional Office in Lucknow, and the U.P. Institute
of Agricultural Sciences, as well as data available in the files of the
Directorate of Agriculture give a useful insight into the considerable
changes which take place in cropping patterns, yields, and farm incomes
witlh the advent of irrigation.
39.       The picture is, however, complicated by the fact that a very
hihli proportion of the farms possess at least a small area which benefits
in some degree from a local irrigation source, or is situated in an area
of low elevation and receives sufficient seepage to make the equivalent
of irrigation farming possible. Even skin bucket wells are a common sight
tlhroughout the Project area, and a large number of farmers fortunate in
having neighbors equipped with tubewells are able to buy water sufficient
to irrigate, or partially irrigate, a portion of their land. Unfortunately,
such sources of water are not reliable, and are likely to dry up or be
restricted at the time of greatest need due to the priority given to his
own crops by the owner of the water resource, especially during droughts
which are a commonly occurring feature of the kharif season.
40.       As . result, the intensity of farming on individual farms within
the Project area varies from as little as 80% in some of the rJriest localities,
wlhere the main crop is an inferior millet planted as a mixed crop with arhar
(pigeon pea) during the kharif, supplemented by a small plot of unimproved
local variety paddy, or maize if the soil or landform conditions are not
sufficiently retentive for rainfed paddy, and followed by local wheat or
barley in tile rabi, planted on a part of the land which lay fallow during
the kharif. Such a farming system can only provide a subsistence income,
and an oftenl precarious one at that.
41.       The less unfortunate farmers, who either have favorably situated
lands with more moist soil conditions, or who have access to a water source
%hiiich permits irrigation on some of their land for at least part of the
tinie, will grow a larger area of paddy while reducing their area of mixed
rmillet and arhar and will follow with wheat in the rabi, and either chena
(bengal gram) or masur (lentil). A small plot of unirrigated sugarcane
may also be introduced on one of the moister fields. Such farmers, who are
probably most representative of the kind likely to avail themiselves of a



AiNEX 1
Page 9
loan under the Project, average around 120% cropping intensity, and in
general are inclined to keep to local varieties rather than risk the
higher yielding introductions, which are more sensitive to moisture
deficiencies.
42.       Finally, there are the irrigated farmers, in the main those who
have their own water source rather than being dependent on supplies
outside their control, such as canals and State tubewells which are
frequently insufficient or unreliable. These fortunate farmers, equipped
with facilities for irrigated rabi season cropping and able to supplement
the natural rainfall of the kharif, are able to grow high yielding, short-
term paddy with a good assurance of a reasonable yield, and hybrid maize
or improved jowar or local millet as a sole crop in the kharif and to follow
these with a large area of high yielding dwarf wheat in the rabi, wihich
features as the nain cash income producing crop, together with a smaller
area of barley. Fieldpea becomes the favored legume, and a larger area of
irrigated sugarcane is often a feature of the crop pattern. Cropping intensitv
increases to around 180% under these circumstances, and can rise to over 200"
in the case of farms where vegetable growing is profitable.
43.       Typical farm budgets, based on one, two and four hectare
holdings, representative of before and after irrigation situations have
been drawn up to support the detailed investment cost and yield assumptions
given in Annex 9.
February 9, 1973






INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Number of Cultivating Households (Rural and Urban) by Land Ownership Size
in the Project Area and in Uttar Pradesh
Less than     1.0-2.4 acres      2.5-4.9 acres      5.0-12.4 acres      12.5 acres
District           1 acre         (1 acre-1 ha)      (1 ha-2 ha)        (2 ha-5 ha)         & larger        Total
Jaunpur                50,465           81,605             54,905             44,425            10,875       242,275
Ghazipur               24,365           37,495             39,940             32,055            13,485      147,340
BaUia                 11,955           41,230             35,655              37,575            13,425      139,840
Gorakhpur              72,785         144,090              87,640             54,980            16,705       376,200
Basti                  87,310         127,845            114,965             72,980             20,905      424,005
Azangarh               51,625         125,130              79,190             58,375            14,435       328,755
Lucknow                15,105           32,820             39,015             24,050             6,145       117,135
Sitapur                15,040           78,465             79,815             76,630            13,095       263,045
Kheri                   7,875           53,545             67,075             60,825            14,505       203,825
Faizabad               41,40o           92,925            62,185              41,420             9,325       247,255
Gonda                  44,015         109,675              87,015             74,945            18,580       334,230
Bahraich               29,515          86,985             71,705             64,035            15,255       267,495
Sultanpur              44,020           67,705             59,900             38,595            10,015       220,235
Barabanki              39,070           76,540             69,930             44,o60             8,255       237,855
Project Area          534,545       1,156,055             948,935            724,950           185,005   -3 -SL        |
Uttar Pradesh       1,108,020        2,536,840          2,508,730          2,446,205           763,940    9,363,735  X
March 27, 1973



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-2
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Area - Land Utilization 1968-69
('000 ha)
Reporting Area for Land Utilization Purposes              7,385
Forests                                                     432
Barren and Uncultivable Land                                 168
Land put to Non-Agricultural Use                            679
Cultivable Waste                                             296
Permanent Pasture and Other Grazing Lands                     17
Land Under Miscellaneous Crops Nidt Included in
Sown Area                                              245
Current Fallows                                             223
Other Fallow Lands                                           147
Net Area Sown                                             4,778
Area Sown .ore than Once                                  1,626
Kharif Cropped Area                                       3,881
Rabi Cropped Area                                         2,909
Zaid Cropped Area                                             23
Total Cropped Area                                        6,804
Total Food Crops                                          6,494
Total Non-Food Crops                                        310
1/   Bulletin of Agricultural StAtitstics for Uttar Pradesh,
1969-70.  Directorate of Agriculture, Lucknow, U.P. 1972.
March 27, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Minor Irrigation
Hydrogeological Conditions
1.        The Project area consists of 14 Districts located in the
northeastern part of Uttar Pradesh. It forms a part of the vast Indo-
gangetic alluvial plain formed during the pleistocene epoch. The deposits
consist principally of beds of fine to coarse sand, clay and silt with
some admixture of Kankar (limey nodules). The aquifers penetrated by most
tubewells are strata of medium to coarse sand of varying thicknesses.
Existing wells have been drilled to depths of only a few hundred feet but
reports indicate that the sediments extend to a depth of several thousand
feet.
2.        The principal streams draining the area are part of the Ganga
(Ganges) River system, consisting of the Sarda, Ghaghra, Kuwana, Rapti,
Little Gandak, Tons and Gomti Rivers. Most streams have their origin in the
Himalaya MIountains or in the foothills north of the international boundary
in Nepal. Stream gradients are low and slopes are toward the southeast.
-3.        The climate of the area is sub-tropical with hot summers and
mild winters. Annual precipitation varies from about 96 cms at Lucknow
to 115 cms in Bahraich District with about 87% occurring during the monsoon
period from June through September. About 7% occurs during the winter
period. In general the magnitude of rainfall is influenced by the
Himalaya Mountains with orographic cooling providing slightly higher
rainfall to tnese areas in close proximity to the mountains. Temperatures
range from a low of 3° to.40C in January to a high of 45°C in May and
June.
4.        Groundwater occurs throughout the Project area, under water table
conditions in the shallow aquifers and occasionally under confined leaky-
aquifer conditions at depth. The confining beds appear to be of only
local areal extent and for all practical purposes water table conditions
may be assumed throughout the area. Recharge occurs (1) by direct
penetration of rainfall; (2) by deep percolation from canals and water
applied for irrigation; and (3) by horizontal inflow through aquifers
(Bhabar) outcropping near the mountains where recharge occurs from the
numerous perennial and intermittent streams draining the Himalayas.
Estimates of recharge have been made from sources (1) and (2) above based
on the following criteria: (a) utilizing the Chaturvedi formula
Rp = 2 (R-15)2/9 where R = annual average rainfall, and Rp = rainfall
penetration to the groundwater reservoir, to estimate recharge directly



ANNEX 2
Page 2
from precipitation; (b) assuming 20% of applied irrigation water is added
to the groundwater reservoir by deep percolation; and (c) recharge from
canal seepage is equal to 6 cfs per million sq ft of wetted area. Based
on these criteria the total estimated annual recharge is of the order
of 1,860 million m3.  In addition there is substantial but unmeasured
recharge as described in (3) above. In order to estimate the recharge
by horizontal inflow from the Himalayan Region it will be necessary to
determine the transmissivity of the aquifers as well as the hydraulic
gradient in this zone. Hydrologic characteristics of the aquifers could
be determined by making pumping tests on the State tubewells utilizing
the criteria established by the Theis non-equilibrium formula. These
tests are being performed as time permits by the State Groundwater
Directorate.
Present Water Use
5.        The water resources of Uttar Pradesh are relatively abundant,
but lack of reservoir storage and adequate canal distribution systems has
provided irrigatinn for multiple cropping to only about 5% of the
cultivated area. In the 14 districts comprising the Project area there
are about 508,000 wells of various types of which only about 118,000 or
23% are energized.  The total pumpage is estimated to be 510 million m3
annually, or about 27% of the estimated groundwater recharge directly
from rainfall and from irrigation operations. There are 3,349 State
tubewells in the Project area operated by the State Tubewell Organization.
The average annual pumpage from these is about 15 million m3, but the
supply is generally inadequate to serve the commanded area which is as
much as 250 ha per well. Service areas have been gradually reduced upon
recognition of the fact that the entire command area could not be served
adequately.
6.        There ire three types of wells commonly in use and which would be
financed under the Project. These are: (a) masonry-lined dug wells;
(b) shallow tubewells; and (c) medium tubewells. The masonry-lined dug
well usually will yield 7 to 8 m3 per hour, which is about the average
capacity of a persian wheel. However, there are about 390,000 masonry
wells in the Project area of which only about 65,000 are equipped with
persian wheels. The remainder are equipped with leather or metal buckets
and water is lifted by bullocks. The second type is the shallow tubewell
which is a dug well with a tubewell drilled or bored in the bottom penetrat-
ing the shallow aquifer that is usually less than 30 m in depth. Frequently
such wells are referred to as "cavity" wells because they usually have no
strainer. The casing is sealed into a thick clay layer which forms the
"roof" of the cavity formed by pumping out the sand around the end of the
casing. The cavity well is usually equipped with a small centrifugal pump
and motor which, if electric, will be directly connected to the pump or if
diesel powered will be connected to the pump by a belt drive. These wells
usually have a capacity of 22 to 27 m3/hr. The third type of well is a
small diameter tubewell equipped with strainer. These wells are usually
about 45 m in depth although they may be deeper depending on the depth of



ANNEX 2
Page 3
the aquifer and the capacity desired. These are referred to as medium
tubewells and may have capacities of 32 to 41 m3/hr or more. These tubewells
are also equipped with centrifugal pumps which may have to be placed in a
pit in order to maintain a suction lift of 5 m or less which is the maximum
practical if the pump is to be operated efficiently.
7.        In practically all cases irrigation can be practiced without land
shaping of any kind. However, to facilitate good water distribution and
reduce conveyance losses cost estimates have included channel lining as
follows: masonry wells 30 meters; shallow tubewells 200 meters and medium
tubewells 400 meters.
Conjunctive Use of Surface and Groundwater
8.        Only about 5% of the cultivated area is under the command of
canals, which distribute water diverted primarily from the Sarda and
Ghaghra rivers. These canals were constructed primarily to provide
supplementary irrigation in the kharif before the introduction of high
yielding varieties and the expansion of rabi cropping both of which have
increased the need for irrigation. The major portion of the runoff occurs
during the monsoon season when only supplemental irrigation is needed.
On the other hand, runoff is at a minimum during the rabi season when the
need for irrigation is greatest. Consequently there is always a shortage
of water for irrigation in the area served by canals and many farmers
have constructed various types of wells to supplement the canal supplies.
Groundwater is abundant at low pumping lifts throughout the area and can
be developed very economically.
9.        There are no known reservoir sites in the Project area for
surface water storage. The water supplies of the Ghaghra and Gomti rivers
during the rabi are now fully utilized. There are a number of streams
draining the Hlimalayan foothills along the northern part of the Project
area although these streams flow only during the monsoon season so that
storage tanks or reservoirs would be necessary to provide water during the
rabi season. The topography in this area is extremely flat which would
make reservoir storage very expensive per unit of water developed. Seepage
and evaporation losses during the storage period would also be substantial.
10.       Because of:  (a) the extremely small area served at present by
the canal system; (b) the expense of providing additional storage reservoirs;
and (c) the relative abundance and low cost of groundwater in the Project
area it is believed that a study of the conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater in the Project area would not be warranted.
Drainage Conditions
11.       Limited flooding occurs in the natural drainage channels as
a result of heavy rains during the monsoon season because of the very low
gradients. Irrigation is not practiced extensively during this period and
ponding during floods is temporary and damage to crops is very small



ANNEX 2
Page 4
except during catastrophic floods when low lying areas may be inundated
for periods of a few days. Irrigation is needed mostly during the rabi
when rainfall is light and infrequent, and prior to the onset of monsoon
rains. During this period farmers pump only the water needed for crops
and there is little or no wastage. There is no evidence of waterlogging
in the Project area, and none is anticipated as a result of the Project.
Legislation
12.       AlthougP the estimated annual recharge in the Project area is
more than adequate to supply the needs of the proposed wells in addition
to those presently in use, the wells must be spaced so as not to cause
excessive interference. This is a situation where the cones of depression
in the water table overlap and may cause some wells to go dry. Model
legislation has been prepared by the Central Government with a view to
eventual enactment by the States but until such time as the legislation
has been passed, the Agricultural Refinance Corporation has agreed to
implement well spacing criteria for the Project. It would be a condition
of credit effectiveness that the Government of Uttar Pradesh would likewise
agree to well spacing criteria, not only to Project investments in minor
irrigation but also to all minor irrigation development within the direct
or indirect control of the State Government.
Proposed Development
13.       The Project would include about 40,000 shallow and medium tubewells
and 10,000 masonry wells equipped with Persian wheels. The tubewells would
be equipped with centrifugal pumps and powered by electric motors and/or
low-speed diesel engines.
14.       The shallow tubewells would be of the "cavity" type having no
strainer. The construction of this type of well is dependent on the
existence of a .ompact clay layer to support the weight of the overlying
formations and suca conditions cannot be forecast in advance of
construction. This type of tubewell is more economical to construct
and is therefore preferred by farmers when formations are suitable and
relatively small yields are desired. This type of well is usually less
tnan 30 m in depth.
15.       The medium tubewells require a wire strainer, usually brass,
placed around the outside of a perforated pipe about 10 cms in diameter.
These wells average about 45 m in depth but may exceed 60 m if large
yields are desired. In areas where the water table is deep the pump must
be placed in a pit so as not to exceed a dynamic suction lift of about
5 m. If the suction lift exceeds this value the efficiency of the pump
decreases rapidly and the impellers may be damaged by hydraulic cavitation.
16.       It is estimated that there are more than 500,000 wells of
various types used in the 14 Districts comprising the Project area.
'fore than 300,000 of these are not energized and water is obtained by



ANNEX 2
Page 5
the use of metal or leather buckets. The total annual withdrawals from
existing wells is estimated to be about 510 million m3 annually. The
average annual rechar e is estimated to be about 1,860 million m3 of which
about 1,350 million ml would be available for use by the Project. It is
anticipated that the Project would develop about 1,070 million m3 or about
79% of the available local recharge. Significant but unmeasured additional
groundwater recharge occurs by horizontal flow to the Project area in deep
aquifers from the Tarai-Bhabar Belt near the Himalayan foothills.
Quality of Water
17.       Although no chemical analyses of groundwater are available from
the 14 Districts comprising the Project area, the State Groundwater Direc-
torate reports that groundwater is of suitable quality for irrigation use.
This is supported by analyses 1/ of groundwater from Western Uttar Pradesh
which is in the same drainage basin and adjacent to the Project area.
These analyses indicate that groundwater is classified C1S2 and C1S2 with
salinity below 750 micromhos/cm and sodium absorption ratio less than 10.
Appraisal Criteria
18.       Although estimates of groundwater recharge over the area as a
whole indicate that there is adequate scope for development of the-quantities
required for the Project, there remains the danger of over-development of
the supply available to any small area by siting tubewells too close
together. To avoid this, the State Groundwater Directorate would conduct
studies of recharge and determine in advance of well siting the minimum
distance between wells.  This distance can be computed for any area by
the following formula:
C
s = 1000        Rx Ax 100
r x 100
Where s = distance between wells in meters;
R = irrigation requirement for the average
cropping pattern in the area in mm;
A = size of the area to be irrigated in hectares;
c = cropping intensity; and
r = estimated annual recharge in mm.
1/   Bulletin No. 1 of the Exploratory Tubewell Organization.  Groundwater
Resources of Tarai-Bhabar Belts and Intermontane Doon Valley of Western
Uttar Pradesh - Appendix No. 11 1963, p. 225.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
19.       The spacing criteria has been specified for other agricultural
credit projects in India and is in accordance with guidelines issued by
the Central Groundwater Board. In this Project it is not necessary to
apply the density formula because the deep aquifers in the Indo-Gangetic
plain extend across water table divides and it is thus impossible to
delineate discrete elementary watersheds.
20.       Under the Agricultural Refinance Corporation minor irrigation
schemes tuie Village Level Worker (VLW) canvasses for prospective loanees,
fills in the loan application documents and obtains the necessary land
titles to establish legality of land ownership. His loan appraisal consists
of an unsubstantiated statement of what he estimates to be the annual
amount the loanee can repay over a given loan period. The VLW then submits
the loan application to the LDB branch through his superior to the block
development officer. Loan approval is almost automatic if the application
is in order. Under the Project the LDB would have at least one field
officer, an agricultural graduate, stationed at each LDB branch. It is
anticipated that a field officer would be able to properly handle no more
than about 200 loans approved per year. The field officer would make the
loan appraisal and siting of the wells to ensure that this complied with
the spacing criteria established in advance by the State Groundwater
Directorate.
Pumping Equipment
21.       Practically all energized wells in the Project area with the
exception of the State tubewells are equipped with centrifugal pumps. In
most instances the pumps are placed in a pit to reduce the suction lift
to acceptable limits. Most farmers prefer electrically driven pumps if
dependable power is available. In Uttar Pradesh only about 20% of the
villages have been electrified and this is even less in the Project area.
The policy of      State Electricity Board under the normal scheme is to
provide at no cost to the farmer electric lines of 60 meters per connected
horsepower up to a maximum of 10 hp. Additional line charges are Rs 600 per
hundred meters or part thereof in addition to a security deposit (normally
Rs 500) and earnest money.  No priority is given under this scheme.  Electri-
fication can also be obtained through a "commercial scheme" which requires a
non-refundable deposit of up to Rs 6,000, by which priority is given to the
connection. A third scheme is the "Consumers deposit scheme" which involves
advancement of funds by the irrigator sufficient to cover the cost of
construction of the line, such amount to be recovered by the consumer over
a period of three years. Consumers are also required to pay fixed charges of
Rs 3 per month for each connected horsepower load or part thereof.
22.       Uttar Pradesh is short of electric power.  Because about 70% of
generating capacity is hydropower the supply is sensitive to drought condi-
tions and power shortages occur at times when the demand for irrigation
pumping is at a ma:-imum. Further no power for irrigation is available
during peak demand periods. During the last several months rationing of
power has reduced availability by about 25% and power outages have caused
a further reduction of availability by about 10%.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
23.       In view of the shortage of power, the restrictions on use of
electricity and the high connection charges it appears that most irrigators
will select low-speed diesel engines as a source of power. Indigenous
diesel engines are in adequate supply.
24.       Appendix 2-1 includes cost estimates for the three types of wells
including electric and diesel power units and accessory equipment. Approx-
imately 50,000 wells of all types will be financed under the Project.
This will include about 10,000 masonry wells and 40,000 tubewells. About
80% (32,000) tubewells will be equipped with diesel power units and the
remaining 20% (8,000) will be equipped with electric motors.
Organizatior and Management
25.       The State Government presently has two organizations concerned
with the development of minor irrigation works; the State Groundwater
Directorate and the Minor Irrigation Department, both under the administra-
tion of the Commissioner of Agricultural Production and Rural Development.
26.       The State Groundwater Directorate is concerned principally with
investigation of the groundwater resources of the State. This work involves
test drilling to determine the location and extent of aquifers, their hydro-
logic characteristics and quality of water and the monitoring of water level
fluctuations. More than 350 observation wells are monitored monthly in the
Project area. Under the Project these measurements would be continued and
additional observation wells monitored as needed. The headquarters office
is located in Lucknow and divisional offices are maintained in three areas:
(a) Middle and Eastern UP north of River Gomti; (b) Middle and Eastern UP
south of River Gomti; and (c) Western UP with headquarters at Roorkee. Lach
divisional office is under the direction of an Executive Engineer. In
addition there are several field offices each under the direction of an
Assistant Geologist who supervises the ongoing work. The State Government
has plans to reorganize the Groundwater Directorate to establish nine
divisions instead of three and to add an exploration division, a geophysical
wing and a chemical wing each to be under the direction of a senior scientist.
This would add an equal number of scientists (35 to 40) to those presently
employed. The additional staff would permit more intensive studies of deep
aquifers, determine the interrelationship of groundwater and surface water
and evaluate the recharge of aquifers in the Tarai - Bhabar Belt near the
Himalayan foothills.
27.       The Minor Irrigation Department is under the direction of a
Superintending Engineer located in Lucknow. The Department has twelve
Divisional offices each under the direction of an Executive Engineer. The
staff includes a total of about 70 professionals and approximately 2,000
non-professionals. The primary function of the Minor Irrigation Department
is the construction of tubewells. At present there are 657 Assistant
Block Development Officers (Minor Irrigation) who are assisted by Mechanical
Inspectors, boring mechanics and laborers as needed to operate more than
4,000 hand drilling rigs. About 1,600 such rigs are located in the Project
area.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
28.       The farmer is charged Rs 2/ft for the use of the hand rig and
is responsible for providing the labor required for drilling. In addition
there are qualified private drilling contractors available whose services
can be obtained at reasonable prices.
29.       The State Groundwater Directorate is under the direction of
qualified and experienced senior officers. However, considering the recent
and proposed expansion of the staff and the number of inexperienced junior
officers, an assurance was obtained during negotiations that two experienced
geohydrologists would be requested from the Central Groundwater Board to
assist in the training of junior officers. The recently formed Central
Groundwater Board has taken over the personnel of the groundwater wing of
the Geological Survey of India and the former Exploratory Tubewell Organiza-
tion.
Irrigation Water Requirements
30.       Irrigaticn water requirements for the 5 farm models were estimated
by the procedure described in Technical Series No. 2 of the Water Manage-
ment Division of the Ministry of Agriculture entitled "A Guide for Estimating
Irrigation Water Requirements" dated June, 1971. The procedure utilizes
crop consumptive use coefficients determined experimentally. The coeffi-
cients represent the ratio of crop use to "Class A" pan evaporation
determined on a monthly basis from the time of planting the crop until it
reaches maturity. Evaporation data were obtained from Scientific Report
No. 146 published by the India Meteorological Department. A portion of the
rainfall that occurs during the growing season is utilized by crops.
Rainfall data was obtained from "Memoirs of the India Meterological Depart-
ment Vol. XXXI, Part III." The estimates of monsoon rainfall utilized by
crops were based partly on procedures described in Technical Series No. 2
referred to above and partly on studies made by Nippon Koi Ltd. at Hardinath
Experiment St-tion in the Tarai area of Nepal. These procedures conform
closely to tbc'se described by the US Department of Agriculture in Technical
Bulletin No. 1275. Estimates of well yields were based on field observations
and discussions in India during appraisal. Soil moisture storage in the
root zone of crops was not evaluated primarily because data were not avail-
able but also because a more conservative evaluation is obtained by not
considering soil moisture storage. For this reason and because of inaccu-
racies in the data, crop water shortages of up to 15% are not considered
significant. However, as is shown in Appendix 2-2 the crops were provided
a full water supply.
31.       It was assumed in the analysis that a Persian wheel would be
utilized 8 hours per day and that tubewells would be utilized 12 hours per
day. A farm irrigation efficiency of 75% was used in all models because
the areas to be irrigated would be located close to the wells and convey-
ance losses would be negligible. Also little or no land shaping would be
necessary and water management on the farm presents no difficulties.
March 26, 1973



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2-1
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs
A. Dug Wells (Masonry)
Item                                      Cost - Rs
Investment
Excavation 10 m depth                         200
Steel shoe                                    200
Brick and mortar lining                     1,400
Persian wheel                                 800
Brick-lined water course 30 m                 210
Total                             2,810
Contingency for price increase                290
Total investment per well        3,100
B. Shallow Tubewell-Electric (cavity type)
Investment
Drilling 30 m                                 500
Casing 30 m                                 1,200
Pump 3" x 4"                                  400
Electric motor 5 hp                         2,100
Pipe and valves                               700
Wiring and deposit                          1,200
Pumphouse and stilling basin                1,500
Brick lined water-course 200 m              1,400
Total                             9,000
Contingency for price increase                900
Total investment per well         9,900
Operation and Maintenance
986 Kwh at Rs 0.18/Kwh                        177
Fixed charges                                 180
Total annual cost per well          357



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2-1
Page 2
C.  Shallow Tubewell - Diesel (Cavity Type)
Item                                      Cost - Rs
Investment
Drilling 30 m                                 500
Casing 30 m                                 1,200
Pump 3" x 4"                                  400
Diesel motor 5 hp                           3,800
Valves and fittings                           700
Belt and pulleys                              300
Pumphouse and stilling basin                1,500
Brick lined water-course 200 m              1,400
Total                            9,800
Contingency for price increase              1,000
Total investment per well       10,800
Operation and Maintenance
Fuel - 577 liters at Rs 0.98/liter            565
Labor and supplies                            111
Total annual cost per well          676
D. Medium Tubewell - Electric (Strainer Type)
Investment
Drilling 50 m                                 700
Casing 28 m 4" diam.                        1,120
Strainer 22 m w/brass mesh                  1,330
Pump 4" x 4"                                  450
Valves and pipe                             1,000
Electric motor 7.5 hp                       2,900
Wiring and electric deposit                 1,200
Pumphouse and stilling basin                1,500
Brick lined water-course 400 m              2,800
Total                           13,000
Contingency for price increase              1,300
Total investment per well       14,300



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2-1
Page 3
Item                                      Cost - Rs
Operation and Maintenance
1908 Kwh at Rs 0.18/Kwh                       343
Fixed charges                                  270
Total annual cost per well          613
E. Medium Tubewell - Diesel (Strainer Type)
Investment
Drilling 50 m                                  700
Casing 28 m 4" diam.                        1,120
Strainer 22 m w/brass mesh                  1,330
Pump 4" x 4"                                   450
Valves and pipe                              1,400
Diesel motor 7 hp                           4,000
Belt and pulleys                               500
Pumphouse and stilling basin                 1,500
Brick lined water-course 400 m               2,800
Total                            13,800
Contingency for price increase               1,400
Total investment per well        15,200
Operation and Maintenance
Fuel - 1195 liters at Rs 0.98/liter          1,171
Labor and supplies                             234
Total annual cost per well        1,405






INDIA                                                                                ;4PP6O0o 2-2
UTTAR PRADESN AGRICULTURAL CREDT PROJECT
Esibuatmi Cro Irripation Watow Requiramnets
J.n              F.6             M.               Apr              M.r             J-o              220,            A'.,              a                 rPIal
W- HYV~A                                                                          -  
_ _                                                         _                          ~~~~~AAAM
P.ddy
Crop  -offici-   k                                                                                                               0351            1.14             1221             0.96
P_r  1oprto    a                                                                                                                40             170              .13              120
01 or                                                                                                                          122             194              170              113
EOtoori  ",'fI'llo                                                                                                              9              178              173              .13
Crop -        1    -rlolo , r .                                                                              120                27              1600
Pradel.  -990. 75  eff.                                                                                   133                36              21                0 
Crop  -oeffoai-  k                                                                                                               0.54             1.07            .1.4            10.83
01o                                                                                                                            130             102              145               0
Cro   11100.o5                                                                                                                                 128              125               1
rogo `            97M ,                                                                                                     45              54               20
Fo.- del.  at   5   O.                                                                                                                          72               19                0
Crop roeifiolool 4               0~~~      ~     ~~.41  0.50       0.38             0.46           0.71               0.93           1.03              1.10             1.17             1.20           1.19             0.35
Paovpoao Ir aa                              2               9               1505             240             34                240             110              1319             1201             124             120               62
or                              ~~~             ~~~               ~~~            ~~~~25  49  59  110  242           223             175              153              140              140             143               22
Epftep -v  raIfafll -0                                       0                 0                0              0                86             154'             148              115               3'.                               0
Crop OrrlgaCOoo 0991. or        ~~25             49                59             110             242               137              21                5               25              015             143                22
F.or  Ic  0-91. 70%cO.                     33               157                               46             322               182              20                1                3              153             10                79
Wh-o 000
Crop.. rofflle-t 6                          0. 85            0.30             0. 05                                                                                                                                 0.55             0.81
... -opoOrl-  _r                        62               96              155                                                                                                                                  120               82
EOlo                                       53               289                6                                                                                                                                   66               50
Eff-i-  0                0                                                                                                                                     B~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
Cro   i`rlg.... 00.   o                11 128           I/ 104                 8                                                                                                                                   66               50
Pao del.  -,1  M5                         ....aa 17        139                11                                                                                                                                   BB06
C-op roafflcleet 1                           1.00             0.77             0.49                                                                                                                                   .104
-90  vP-rCle  e                          62               90                                                                                                                                                     015               0.4
00                              ~~~              ~~~              ~~~~ ~       ~~62  75  78                                                                                                              62
lEff-i-  rainfall                            0                0                0                                                                                                                                   16               2
Cr0  lrrtgaoLo  r-q.                       62                73              76                                                                                                                                     020
Foor  d.l.  -991, 75%   ffP.               82              100               101                                                                                                                                   216              15
Cr0    .. ocffrei   4~                       1.00             0.77             0.25                                                                                                                                 0  3"
Po   .aorlo.o                              62               98              155                                                                                                                                   10.1               0.4
120              6
llaa                            ~~~              ~~~~~~~~~62  7539                                                                                                                                                       -
OlOarOIvereIoOoll or            ~~               ~       ~~0  0    0                                                                                                                                    16                5
Cropf 00rl80010   -eql.                    62               75               39                                                                                                                                     6                0
900 dcl. 9991, 75%  flf. o                 83              100               52                                                                                                                                    16               15
Crp  ","ip.ill,nI                                                                                                                 0 47           0.083             1.04            1.18
r.n  -va-oalo- or                                                                                                              240             170              139              120
01 -                                                                                                                           113             141              140              134
OlErlf-   e-plolaf1o                                                                                                            85             128              125              115
Crop  trro1orionreqO.                                                                          ~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~28  13  2219
Porn del. Paqt. 75%  ff0.o                                                                                                       37             17               29               25
Crop  -otf--eo                               0.45            0.10                                                                                                                                   0.10.89.                         0.96
P..  _P-i..  62  9                                                                                                                               ~~~      ~     ~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~124  120  02
01t                                        28               10                                                                                                                                      9             107               60
000e010onralnOOll -          0               ~~~                                                                                                                                            ~      ~        ~       ~~~~0  0   
Crop Orlgl ooaq.   r                       2 8               lo                                                                                                                                     9             10,7              600
Papa del. 0991  75%  ff, o                 37               13                                                                                                                                     12             142               so
00100  00 Wate  R.g.i.ed for Far  82919 1n Cu610  ltlrsa
9o90 1,1halOcor  Wall 0014 P.0009  Wh. l 0i04 Crp-il, of 58 a  /d.,
Pa 1ddy                                                                                                    660               180             110                0                0
0 3 i.5                             I177                                                                                                       216               87
0.1 Sog-ror                                33               65               78              146             322               I82              28                                33              153             190               29
0.6 Oc-   00                             1020              834               60~                                                                                                                                  529              402
0.IP=00                                    83              100               52                                                                                                                                    00               13
0,1  T3 .cr                                                                                                                       7             07              129               25
T0001 d-rod 0t 2,p                       1136              999               196             146             982               56              371              123               38153                           739       ~       44
A-oO1abl. a_yly                          17 98            1624             1798             1740            1788              1740            1788             1798             1740             0798            1740             179~8
PorreOOollllM-ll-                          63               62                11                8             53                 33             21                7                3                 9            42                26
1.0Padyll1_3     11,1,Tb11ih5l  Mt,____-d  C-t,il ...1 ?                                 ~141 C0091i00  2073 93/d.r
1338               360             2100
0.25 0M99-                                                                                                                      148            190               73
0.05 BoaoOo0                                                163              005             365             05455                              70                18              83              383             475               73
1.0oWh.e                                 1700             1190              110                                                                                                                                   880               7
0.25 Soly205                                                250             253                                                                                                                                    53              603
0.25 PB099                                208               250              130                                                                                                                                   53               9'3
0.25 ' So                                                                                                                         343                            73               63
I         MalOroaP_Tp                  2196             2053              6889             365           2135               1056             533             164              146              383            1461               909
va-t.l. le9pp1yra                        8463             7644             8463             8190            6463               8190           8463            8463              8198            9463             8190             8463
P90-00  UlliOOoeOlo                        26                27                8               4              25                 13              6                2                2                5              1                11
8W19-  001d a3                            1098             1026              344             188            1149                477            259               46               73              192             738              455
912201 4 6 5.1                                                                                            f1OolrObra1    14754   22  0200-OgIPoo00   0015o   82 ./
2T.0 PddyI                                                                                                 2644                720             420                00
0.5 00190                                                                                                                      295             360              1405
0.23 Ougorore-                              83             163               195              365            805               455              70               18               83              583             475               712
2. 5Whea                                 4250             3475              27                                                                                                                                  210               165,
0.5 P-0                                    415             530              260                                                                                                                                   105               6
0.5j POOaOoe                        I11856126                                                                                                                                                                      10              400
0.5 P20                                              j                        -       a       -                                 6               8               .5                2
dvIal3 01  a114                                      109-14                             16              34                16              14               14              1140             117 91140                        11420
5010    de.a   00 po    _              14933            4203               730             365            3465              1655             935              30I              208              443            3490            2313
090ra09  oOllOOaOton            ~~~            ~~42  39             6                3             29                 14               a               32                                4              3020
75  -  ..   dft  ..-                                                                                 -t.I-..-  y-d .b-   f-M_..






ANNEX 3
INDIA
UTTAR iRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements (Cumulative)
Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter Ending               Rs Million   US$ Million
1973/74
September 30, 1973
December 31, 1973                   5.7           0.8
March 31, 1974                     14.3           1.9
Juaie 30, 1974                     28.5           3.8
1974/75
September 30, 1974                 42.8           5.7
December 31, 1974                  71.3           9.5
March 31, 1975                     99.8          13.3
June 30, 1975                     128.3          17.1
1975/76
September 30, 1975                142.5          19.0
De.ember 31, 1975                 171.0          22.8
March 31, 1976                    199.5          26.6
June 30, 1976                     228.0          30.4
1976/77
September 30, 1976                242.3          32.3
December 31, 1976                 285.0          38.0
April 9, 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
Organization and Management
1.        The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) was established on
July 1, 1963, with the objectives of providing medium- and long-term finance
to agricultural credit institutions and, at the same time, directing and
guiding such institutions toward a development-oriented approach in their
operations.
2.        ARC's shareholders include the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), state-
level cooperative land development/mortgage banks, state cooperative banks
and other institutions (scheduled banks, the Life Insurance Corporation of
India, insurance and investment companies, and others approved by the Govern-
ment of India). The Act of Parliament under which ARC operates 1/ provides
that of its share capital RBI shall subscribe to at least 50%, the coopera-
tive land development banks and state cooperative banks to not more than
30%, and othcr institutions to not more than 20%.
3.        ARC's management is vested in a Board of Directors of nine members,
three of whom are elected and the rest nominated. Three directors represent
RBI (a Deputy Governor is Chairman of the Board); three the Government of
India (at present the Secretary, Department of Agriculture, and the Special
Secretary, Department of Cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture and a
Joint Secretary, Department of Banking of the Ministry of Finance); and
three directors are elected, one each by the state cooperative land develop-
ment banks, by the state cooperative banks, and by the Life Insurance
Corporation of India, scheduled banks, and other insurance and financing
institutions.
4.        The Managing Director is the chief executive officer and is
assisted by a professional staff of 145 (as of June 1972) of whom about 100
are based at ARC's head office. Until early 1970, ARC did not employ any
specialists, instead relying on a panel of consultants for technical advice
in appraisal and supervision work. To supplement consultants' advice, ARC
has established a technical division which, as of June 1972, comprised six
specialists, including an expert in groundwater development, and an agri-
cultural economist and to which ARC proposes to make further appointments.
With the increasing volume of lending, ARC recognizes the need to build up
its staff at all levels and has prepared a staff development plan to cover
the period to the end of March 1974.
1/   Agricultural Refinance Corporation Act, 1963 (No. 10 of 1963).



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        ARC's head office is in Bombay.  It has 14 regional offices
(Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Bombay, Calcutta, Chandigarh,
Hyderabad, Jaipur, Lucknow, Madras, New Delhi, Patna, and Trivandrum)
which assist banks and state governments in formulating agricultural
development projects for financing, clarify ARC's policies and procedures
when required, undertake preappraisal of projects submitted and supervise
general execution of projects under ARC financing.
Lending Policies
6.        The ARC Act provides that it shall be guided by suchI directions
in matters of policy involving public interest as GOI may, after consulting
RBI, give in writing. ARC can extend financial assistance only to central
or state-level land development/mortgage banks (LDBs), state cooperative
banks, and other scheduled (commercial) banks; in exceptional cases, and
with RBI approval, it can also lend directly to a primary cooperative at
the farm level.
7.        Until June 1966, it was not normally ARC's policy to refinance
construction and energization of wells by individuals unless the outlay
involved was large and development was envisaged through a cooperative
society organized for the purpose. In July 1966, however, ARC not only
removed this restriction, but also circulated a model scheme for minor
irrigation development by farmers in compact areas. Thus began ARC's
policy of financing individual farmers on the basis of project models.
8.        ARC will refinance agricultural development schemes wiich are
technically feasible, financially justified, and are within a reasonably
compact area for facility of loan evaluation and supervision. The scheme
can involve just one farmer, a group of farmers, or an association of
farmers.  Preference, however, is given to schemes involving a large number
of farmers.
Y1        Technical evaluation of schemes is carried out by consultants
d-awn from a panel approved by the Government of India.  Services of the
C.entral Croundwater Board, the Geological Survey of India and the various
commodity boards are also used and ARC prescribes the terms of reference in
every case. Some important points examined in the case of schemes for
r.inor irrigation include:  an estimate of the quantum of water proposed to
be tapped, annual water recharge, annual water draft, taking into account
-he existing and proposed wells, and the type of pumpsets needed. With the
establishment of its own technical division, increasing back-up support is
aow available from ARC's own specialist staff which will provide a founda-
tion of technical expertise for scheme appraisal and supervision throughout
India.
lO0.      Economic evaluation of schemes is performed by ARC staff.  Some of
the important aspects appraised include cost estimates, the suitability of
:ie cropping pattern recommended, inputs available for development, farmers'
repayment capacity, efficiency of the project executing agency, arrangements



ANNEX 4
Page 3
for the provision of short-term credit and marketing arrangements. Preap-
praisal is done generally by regional offices, but final evaluation and
sanction is made at head off'ice in Bombay.
Lending Terms
11.       ARC refinance is provided through purchases of special debentures
floated by L1JBs and through loans to commercial banks. Special debentures
are backed by a charge on all mortgages resulting from loans refinanced
under the issue and in addition are guaranteed by the State Government
concerned. Loans to commercial banks are secured by mortgages or hypotheca-
tion on assets financed and generally also carry a state government guarantee.
12.       Prior to the participation of IDA in ARC operations, the special
debentures were repayable in one sum at the end of the loan period and ARC
required that collections from farmers in the interim be placed in a sinking
fund. Such sinking funds (similar arrangements exist for ordinary debentures
issued by LDBs) are invested in GOI securities and are also used to purchase
the debentures of LDBs (including the repurchase of their own debentures).
In the case of the IDA-supported projects it was considered preferable to
give ARC the benefit of the re-use of funds realized from farmers' collec-
tions: the repayment of special debentures under such projects are there-
fore scheduled approximately to match farmers' collections and the sinking
fund arrangements do not therefore apply. The same arrangements exist in
respect of loans issued to commercial banks. Periods of refinance are
determined after a study of the repayment capacity of farmers based on farm
miodels. Although ARC may lend for medium-term (3-5 years), most of its
refinancing has been for long-term: the latter is in effect divided into
periods not exceeding 9 or 15 years, reflecting the different terms on which
ARC borrows from GOI (para 23).
13.       Until 1967/68 ARC refinance was limited to 75% of loans made to
farmers for any purpose. In that year, however, ARC agreed to increase its
refinancing of minor irrigation investments up to 90%, other purposes (e.g.,
land leveling, farm mechanization) remaining at 75%. The balance is provided
in the case of LDBs by the state government concerned and in the case of
commercial banks, by the banks themselves. In 1971, ARC agreed that, for a
limited period, it would refinance 100% of loans made to small farmers'
schemes under the aegis of the Small and Marginal Farmers' Development
Agencies.
14.       Since November 1970, ARC's lending rate has been 6-1/2% per annum
(it was previously 6%). Scheduled banks (commercial and state cooperative
banks) are required to charge their borrowers no more than an additional
2-1/2% and while LDBs are not bound by the same restriction they neverthe-
less follow the same interest mark-up and none exceeds it. ARC reserves
the right to collect a commitment fee of 1/3% per annum on any shortfall
against an agreed schedule of drawings.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Lending Commitments
15.       The following table shows the growth of ARC's commitments (less
subsequent cancellations) during the nine years to June 30, 1972, the date
of the last ARC audited accounts:
Number of
Schemes         Total Schemes             ARC
Year         Approved               Costs             Commitment
Rs Million          Rs Million
1963/64              3                 27.20                24.50
1964/65             10                206.00               168.80
1965/66             24                179.60               141.80
1966/67             15                105.30                85.30
1967/68            89                 681.60               586.40
1968/69           108                 792.10               693.20
1969/70            142                927.80               709.20
1970/71            100                621.50               539.20
1971/72            269              1,542.40             1,351.30
760             5,083.50              4,299.70
Less reductions
or withdrawals          49              1,036.00               791.80
711             4,047.50              3,507.90
16.       During the initial years, ARC transacted very little business due
to the need to establish the groundwork and bases for its operations and for
building up its staff. The above table shows in particular the growth which
has taken place since 1967/68 when ARC increased to 90% its refinancing of
minor irrigation schemes. With increased staff and substantial financial
assistance from IDA, ARC was in a position to more than double its opera-
tions in 1971/72 .gainst 1970/71.
17.       Most of the schemes sanctioned have been for projects financed by
LDBs:
Number of
Schemes         ARC Commitments
Rs Million       % of Total
(a)  Land Development Banks          485      3,040.80            86.7
(b)  State Cooperative Banks           33       230.10             6.6
(c)  Scheduled Commercial Banks       193       237.00             6.7
Total                      711      3,507.90           100.0
=~~~~ 



ANNEX 4
Page 5
18.       About 85% of the cost of schemes approved for refinance have been
for minor irrigation and land development:
Total ARC
Schemes Approved            Commitment
% of                      % of
Number     Total       Rs Million    Total
(a)  Minor Irrigation              434        61.0        2,498.10       71.2
(b)  Land Development               53          7.5         475.60       13.6
(c)  Tractor and Power Tillers       5         0.7           46.10        1.3
(d)  Soil Conservation               3         0.4           21.40        0.6
(e)  Plantations                   176        24.8          252.90        7.2
(f)  Poultry                         8          1.1            5.20       0.2
(g)  Fisheries                      13          1.8          45.30        1.3
(h)  Dairying                        7          1.0           18.70       0.5
(i)  Storage                        11          1.6          140.80       4.0
(j)  Sheep Breeding                  1         0.1             3.80       0.1
Total                   711        100.0        3,507.90      100.0
Withdrawal of committed funds is normally phased over more than one year.
Disbursements
19.       During the early years, ARC disbursements lagged behind the
schedules of drawings which had been agreed with the lending banks in the
states but, as the following table shows, this has improved in recent years
partly as a result of better administrative arrangements and partly through
ARC's more frequent recourse to imposing commitment fees:
Cumulative            Cumulative       Disbursements
Year          Scheduled Commitments    Disbursements    to Commitments
Rs Million              Rs Million            %
1963/64                   -                         
1964/65                  44.7                      4.5            10.1
1965/66                  87.3                     49.0            56.1
1966/67                 143.0                     69.8            48.8
1967/68                 254.8                    126.5            49.6
1968/69                 585.9                    304.9            52.0
1969/70                 921.5                    590.9            64.1
1970/71                1256.7                    897.1            71.4
1971/72                1760.4                   1246.9            70.8
As of June 30, 1972, ARC had made disbursements amounting to Rs 53.7 million
in respect of IDA credit projects.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Source of Funds
20.       ARC initially made a share issue to the value of Rs 50 million for
wlich GOI guaranteed an annual dividend of 4-1/4%.  During 1971, ARC in-
creased its share capital to Rs 100 million and on the further shares issued
a dividend of 4-1/2% was guaranteed.
21.       Apart from share capital, ARC can raise funds from the following
sources: (a) borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI;
(b) issue and sale of debentures and bonds guaranteed by GOI; (c) borrowings
from RBI for periods not exceeding 18 months; and (d) deposits from GOI,
the state government, and local authorities for periods not less than 12
months. Total borrowings and deposits received may not exceed 20 times the
sum of ARC's paid-up share capital and reserve fund. The ARC Act was
amended by Parliaui.ent in August 1971 to enable the Corporation to borrow
from the National Agricultural Credit Long-Term Operations Fund maintained
by the Reserve Bank of India.
22.       ARC's borrowings and receipts of deposits during the nine years
to June 30, 1972, are summarized as follows (in Rs million):
Borrowings                         Deposits
Year            GOI         Marke't     REI         Total         Received
1963/64          50.00          --         --          50.00
1964/65           -_           __          __          __             1.13
1965/66           -            --                                     1.25
1966/67           --           --          --          --             1.26
1967/63         30.00          --          --          30.00          1.25
1968/69         177.50         --          --         177.50          1.26
1969/70         190.00       109.38        --         299.38          1.25
1970/71        220.00         85.25      75.20        380.45          1.25
1971/72         103.30        82.50       8.70        195.00          1.25
fotal       771.30        277.13      83.90      1,132.33          9.90
'.n 1971/72, ARC borrowed from G0I Rs 103.80 million of whicli Rs 33.29
raillion (US4.44 million) represented the first drawings from IDA under
tLe agricuiltural credit projects. During this period ARC also increased
its market borrowings by a third bond issue to the value of PRs 82.5 million,
and lts temporary accommiodation with RBI has been in part replaced by a
long-term loan of Rs 50 million from the National Agricultural Credit
Long-Term Operations Fund.
23.       Borrowings from GOI have been on various terms:  interest rates
railging from 4.75% per annum to 6% per annum and repayment periods from 9
to 15 years. With effect from June 1, 1971, GOI interest rates to ARC have
been increased by 1/2% per annum and are now therefore 5-1/2% on loans up
to 10 years and 6% on loans for 15 years. Since August 1968, ARC has been
allowed a rebate o;' 1/4% on timely payments of interest on GOI borrowings.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
24.       Interest rates payable by ARC on other borrowings are variable.
The first two market issues of ARC bonds are both dated 1982 and are at an
interest rate of 5-3/4% per annum. The third issue is due 1984 and carries
an interest rate of 5-3/4% per annum. The previous short-term borrowings
from RBI at bank rate (6%) have been replaced by the National Agricultural
Credit Long-Term Operations funds at 4-1/4% (para 22). The special deposits
represent dividends payable on ARC's shares held by RBI and on which ARC
pays no interest.
Operating Results
25.       A comparative statement of ARC's operating results to June 30,
1972 is given in Appendix 4-1 and is summarized below (in Rs million):
Net
Income    Statutory  Surplus
Gross    Total      Net    Income   before    Dividend        or
Year   Income  Expenses  Income   Tax    Dividends  Liability  Deficit
1963/64   3.75      0.30     3.45    1.80       1.65        1.91      -0.26
1964/65   4.00      0.39     3.61    1.76       1.85        2.13      -0.28
1965/66   4.35      0.48     3.87    2.27       1.60        2.13      -0.53
1966/67   4.98      0.61     4.37    2.40       1.97       2.13       -0.16
1967/68   6.00      1.67     4.33    2.38       1.95       2.13       -0.18
1968/69  11.04      6.29     4.75    2.61       2.14       2.13        0.01
1969/70  27.28    20.55      6.73    3.70       3.03       2.13        0.90
1970/71  42.66    35.72      6.94    3.44       3.50        2.13       1.37
1971/72  60.59    49.70    10.89    5.75        5.14       3.05        2.09
26.       In the first three years of ARC's operations, income was derived
mostly from interest on investments. Beginning 1966/67, this pattern
changed when ARC began to expand its refinancing operations. In 1971/72
interest received from loans and debentures represented 97% of total income
received.
27.       Benefitting from cost-free funds available to it during the first
four years of its existence, ARC's main items of expense at the time were
salaries and employee benefits. Needing more funds for its expanded opera-
tion, interest paid on borrowed money has since 1967/68 been an important
item of expenses. In 1971/72 interest paid on borrowings and salaries
and employee benefits were 89% and 7%, respectively, of total expenses.
28.       Until 1968/69, net income after tax was insufficient to meet
ARC's fixed dividend of 4-1/4% annually and this deficiency had to be made
good by GOI in accordance with its guarantee under the Act: ARC retains
the liability to reimburse GOI this sum (Rs 1.4 million) out of future
profits. Since 1968/69, however, profits have been sufficient to cover
dividend payments and leave ARC with a small surplus and this position
significantly improved in the subsequent three years.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
29.       Since June 1971, ARC's interest spread has been reduced due
to the 1/2% per annum increase of its interest rates on borrowings from GOI
(para 23) and its need to borrow more 15-year money from GOI at the higher
rate of 6% per annum to match preferential lending to small farmers. Against
this ARC's lending rate is fixed at 6-1/2% per annum. The scale of profits
will in the future largely depend on ARC's borrowing rates and the extent
to which it will have recourse to the National Agricultural Credit Long-Term
Operations Fund of RBI at concessional rate (4-1/4% per annum) or has to
depend on borrowings from the market at higher rates (effectively 6% per
annum presently). The projections of net income for the period 1971/72 to
1975/76 (see Appendix 4-2) are based on an average interest margin of about
1.3% which, with increasing volume of lending, should be sufficient to cover
the operating expenses and provide for a small net profit.
30.       ARC is in sound financial condition (Appendix 4-3).  Its equity
position as of June 30, 1972 is unimpaired by losses and its assets were
in GOI securities and debentures of Land development banks, which are
guaranteed by state governments. A five-year projection of ARC's financial
condition is given in Appendix 4-4.
31.       In accordance with its charter, ARC's accounts are audited
annually by accountants duly qualified under the All India Companies Act
of 1956 (the present auditors are Messrs. K.S. Aiyar and Co.). Under the
same Charter, GOI can appoint the Comptroller and Auditor General of India
to examine and report on the accounts of ARC. To date, GOI has not found
the need to exercise this power.
January 16, 1973



I N D I A
UTTAR PRADEH A3RICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agrl.oultural Refinance Corporation
Condensed Statements of Net Income
For Fiscal Years 1296166 - 1971/72
195/66        _1 966/67           1967/68          1968/69           1969/70          1970/71           1971/72
RS NM     O      Rs M f           RKs M      Of                of                r    Rs M         of      i     fRs M
Total            Total            Total            Total             Total            Total              Total
Income           Income           Income           Income            Income           Income             Income
Interest Earned ons  IDA Projects                -        -       -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -                 -       0.99       1.6
Other Loans and Debentures  1.09     25.1    3.06     61.3    4.83     80.5  10.20       92.4  24.09    88.3   40.12        94.1   57.79      95.4
Interest on Investments and other Income         3.25     74.9   1.92      38.7   1.17      19.5  00.84        7.6    3.18     11.7   _.5         5.9    1.81       3.0
Total Income                                  4.34    loo.o    4.98    100.0   6.oo    100.0   1 .        100.0  27.27    100.0   42.66    100.0  60.59         100.0
EXPENSES
Interest Paid on: Borrowings for IDA Projects   -         -                                                                                              o -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  0.06  0.1
Other Borrowings                       -       -        -       0.146     7.8    4.42      40.0  17.07      62.6  30.80       72.2   44.o6      72.7
Salaries, Allowance, Consultants' Fees, and
E!Dployee Benefits                               o.36      8.4   0.47       9.5   0.91       15.2    1.43     13.0    2.04      7.5    3.40       8.0    3.92        6.5
General and Administrative Expenses              0.11      2.6   0.13       2.6    0.29       4.8   0.43       3.9    1.42      5.2    1.48       3.4    1.59        2.6
Depreciation of Assets                           0.01      0.1    0.01      0.1    0.01       0.1    0.01      0.1    0.02      0.1    0.04       0.1    0.07        0.1
Total Expenses                                0.48     11.1    0.61     12.2    1.67      27.9    6.29     57.0   20.55     75.4   35.72      83.7   49.70       82.0
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                               3.86     88.9    4.37     87.8    4.33      72.1    4.75     43.0   6.72      24.6    6.94      16.3  10.89        18.0
Taxes Paid or Payable                            2.27     52.2    2.40     48.3    2.38      39.6   2.61      23.7    3.70      13.6    3.44      8.1    5 75        9-5
NET INCOME AFTE1R TAXES                               1.59     36.7    1.97     39.5    1.95      32.5    2114     19.3    3.02      11.1    3.50      8.2    51 4        8.
December 4, 1972



I ND IA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Projected Statement of Net Income
For Fiscal Years 1971/72 - 1975/76
1971/72                 1972/73                 1973/74                  1974/75                  1975/76
% Of                    % Of                    % of                     %of                      % of
Rs M   Total Income    Rs M   Total Income      Rs M   Total Inco.       Rs M   Total Income     Rs M   Total IncQw
Intret  aredonVID  Po3ct                      0.99        1.6         25.69      24.5         67.I46     39,0          92.23      36.9         107.08      32.9
Other Loans and Debentures   57.79      95.1I        79.01      75.44        105.21      60.9        157.38      63.o          217.85     67.0
Other Income                  1.81       30° .10                 0.1           0.10       0.1          0.10       0.1            0.10      0.1
Total Income                                    60.59      100.0       10          100.0        172.77     100.0        249.71      100.0         325.03    100.0
Interest Paid on:  Borrowings for IDA Projects2'   0.06       0.1         14.20      13.6          10.19      23.3         60.17      24.1           74.82     23.0
Other Borrowings           2/  44.06      72.7         61.83      59.o0         8703       50.4        126.06      50.5          168.67     51.9
Salaries and Consultants' Fees                     3.92       6.5          4.30        4.1          6.40       3.7          8.23       3.3           10.60      3.3
General Administrative Expenses                    1.59       2.6          2.05        2.0          2.45       1.4          2.95       1.2            3.95      1.2
Depreciation of Assets                            0.07        01           o.o5        -            0.05        -           0.05                            -05
Total Expenses                                             82.0         82.3        78.7        136.12      78.8        197.46       79.152.890
INCOME BDC!E TAME                                      10.89      18.0         22.37      21.3          36.65      21.2         52.25       20.9          66.94     20.6
Income Tax Due                                                9.5         11.57      11.0          18.96      11.0         27.04      10.8           34.64     10.7
NET INCOME AFTER TAMS                                   5.1Li                  10.80       10.3         17.69      10.2         25.21       10.1
i4                =
I/ At 6&  per annum on all loans made after July 1. 1970; i% per annum on all earlier loans
T/  5¼ per annum for loans up to nine years and 5-3/4 per annum for loans up to 15 years
3/ On the basis of the following interest rates: 435 per annum on share capital;
41  per arnum on RBI (LTO) Funds; 54 per annmm on borrowings from G0I on normal schemes; and
5.8% per annum on open market borrowings.
December 4, 1972



INDIA
UTPTAR PRADESH AGBICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance Corgoration
Condemed Balane Sheet
At the End of Fiscal YTea I &9L/6  - 1M
1965/66          1966f67                1967/68                MO/69                  1969/70                 1970/71                1971/72
Change from           Change from            Change frm             Change from             Change from            Change fram
ls IC       Ks M  Previous Date   RS M  Previous Date   Rs N  Previous Date   Ra i( Previous Date   Rs N  Pre,ious Date   Rs N  Previous Date
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and in Banks               0.02      o.o6       0.04        0.09      0.03         0.06    (0.03)          o.-4    (0.02)       100.01    99.97           0.21   (99.80)
Investments                            55.21     35.79     (19.42)       8.40    (27.39)        5.14    (3.26)        24.99    19.85           0.20   (24.79)           -      (0.20)
Loans                                   1.47      3.03       1.56        7.35      4.32        25.49    18.14          42.93    17.44         76.95    34.02         137.72    60.77
Debentures Purchased                   47.53     66.73      19.20      119.o4     52.31       278.55   159.51        546.0k  267.49          812.39   266.35      1,096.38   283.99
Other Assets                            24  .34  338         1.04        6.46      3.08        13.58     7.12         17.31     3.73          27.30     9.           37.39    10.09
Total Assets                      106.57    108.99       2.42      L41.34     32.35       322.82   181.48         631.31   308.49      1,016.85   385.54       1.271.70   254.85
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Loans frcm Government of
India and Others                 500       5C. 0       -          80.02     30.00       257.50   177.50        556.88   299.38         862.13   305.25      1,132.31   270.18
Special Deposits                         2.39       3.64       1.26        4.90      1.26         6.15     1.25          7.40     1.25           8.65     1.25          9.90      1.25
Other Liabilities                       4.18      5.35       1.16        6.44      1.09         9.16     2.72         16.94      7.78         93-77     7.64         25.12   (68.65)
Total Liabilities                  56-57     58.99       2.42       91.34     32.35       272.81   181.47        581.22   30.41          964.55   384.14      1,167.33   202.78
Capital - Paid-uy                      50.00     50.00       -          50.00     -            50.00   _              50.00   -               50.00   _             100.00    50.00
Reserves and Surplus                     N         N                      N       N             0.01     0.01          0.09      0.08          2.30     1.40           4.37     2.07
Total Capital                      50.00     50.00       H          50.00     N            50.01      0.01         50.09     0.08         52.30     1.40         104.37    52.07
Total Liabilities and
Capital                           106.57    108.99       2.42      141.34     32.35       322.82   181.48         631.31   308.49      1,016.85   385.5        1,271.70   254.85
nTncludes: Rs 277 M1illion public bond issues;
Rs 771 million fram Central Government;
Rs 84 million from Reserve Bank of India.
N: Negligible                                                                                                                                                                            x x
December 4, 1972



I N D I A
UTTAR PRAMSH AGRICULTUIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Abated Balance Sheet
At the Ind of Fiscal Years 1971/72 - 1975/76
jMl9e 30. 1972                ue  701                     June 3   1974                          0975  June 30. 1976
Ers- N     hn fOm 1./         Ha        C-a7g- Ifr-Them                                      s  1 W   ingjifro            Rs N       Chang-e f-icu
Previous Date                 Previcos Date                 Previous Date                  Previowu Date                  Previos Date
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and in Banks                    0.21      (99.80)              o.60        0.39              0.70        0.10               O.80        0.10               0.90        0.10
Investeents                                   -         (0.20)             10.00       10.00             20.00       10.00              20.00         -                20.00         -
Loans and Debentures:  IDA Project          53.71       53.71             736.71      683.00          1,338.71      602.00           1,498.71      160.00           1,795.71      297.00
Others             1,180.39      291.05          1, h21.141    241.02           2,031.41      610.00          3,091.41    1,060.00           3,931.41       840.oo
Other Assets                                37.39       10.09                .00       (7 2)              40.00      10.00              70.00       3000               80.00       10.00
Total Assets                           1.271.70     2514.85             =          927.02          3-1i30.82    1                        2    1 2 0              5,828.02    1,147.10
LIABILITIES AID CAPITAL
Loans from 001 (IDA Funds)                  33.29       33.29             544,82      511.53          1,081.82      537.00           1,339.82      258.oo           1,652.82      313.00
Other Loans frrm  OI and Other Sources    1,099.02     236.89           i,144o.714    3141.72         2,067.99      627.25           2,983.87      915.88           3,762.87      779.00
Other Liahilities                            35.02      (67.40)           53.149        8.47             61.40        7.91              72.          11.01             57.46          .95)
Total Liabilities                        7.1   3    202.78           2.039.05      871.72          3.211.21    1.172,16           4&396.10   IA&.8Z              5.473.15    1,077.05
Capital Paid-up                             100.00      50.00             150.00       50.00            200.00       50.00             250.00       50.00             300.00       50.00
Reservest At Beginning of Year                2.28        -                 4-37         .                 9.67        -                19.61         -                34.82         -
Projected Net Inca.                5.14         -               10.80         -                17.69         -               25.21         -                32.30          -
Total Available                    7.142       -                15.17         -                27.36         -               44.82         -                67.12         -
Madatory Dividend Due-             3.05         -                5.5o         -                 7.75         -                10.00         -                12.25         -
At the Ind of Tear                 4           2.07              9.67         .30              19.61        .9-4             34.82       15.21              54.87        20.05
Total Capital                               104.37      52.07             159.67        530              219.61       5994              8.82        65.21             354.87       70.05
TOTAL LIABILITIE AND CAPITAL                   12_71.70     ?2.19872                          0            3                                                                             10
I  See Appendix 4-3
Iandatory dividend of 4? applies to the initial Rs 50 million equity capital
and 41A on share capital issued later
December 4, 1972



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Uttar Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd.
A. Organization and Management
1.        In March 1959 the Uttar Pradesh State Cooperative Land Mortgage
Bank was first registered under the Cooperative Societies Act and started
functioning in May 1960. At present it operates under the Uttar Pradesh
State Cooperative Land Development Banks Act No. XVI of 1964, and the bylaws
registered under the Cooperative Societies Act. Under its Act, the name of
the bank was changed to Uttar Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development
Bank Ltd. (LDB), and it is presently using the vernacular name UP Rajya
Sahakari Bhumi Vikas Bank Ltd.
2.        The LDB has a unitary structure with its head office in Lucknow,
the State's capital, and 203 branch offices at Tehsil 1/ level in 51 of the
State's 54 districts. Fifteen more branch offices are proposed to be
opened within the next three years. Unlike in other states of India, the
LDB has no federated primary cooperative societies. All branch offices and
their operations are administered and controlled from head office. The
Project area covers 14 districts in which LDB maintains 55 branch offices;
2 more are planned to be opened in the near future.
3.        Under the General Body, composed of delegates from members of each
branch area and government nominated directors and with powers equivalent
to an Annual General Meeting of shareholders in a joint stock company,
LDB's operations are directed by a 15-member Board of Directors. The Board
consists of five members elected by the General Body at its Annual Meeting
and ten directors nominated by the State Government. They represent the
Cooperative, Agriculture, Minor Irrigation, Planning and Finance Departments
and the State Electricity Board; one nominated director is nonofficial. The
chairman is the Deputy Secretary, Cooperative Department. In order to
facilitate the administration of the bank, the Board has constituted three
committees consisting of 5 directors each: Executive Committee, dealing
with loan sanctioning and administration, Finance Committee, responsible
for budgeting and a Loan Evaluation Committee, controlling branch offices
and loan utilization. The trustee is the Registrar of Cooperative Societies.
1/   Tehsil (also Tahsil or Taluk) is an administrative unit, a part of
a district. Uttar Pradesh is divided into 54 districts and 234
tehsils; each tehsil has on average about 4 Community Development
Blocks.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        The chief executive officer is the Secretary, the present incum-
bent being the Deputy Registrar of Cooperative Societies, on deputation
from the Cooperative Department since April 1, 1972 for an undetermined
period, but for at least five years. The Deputy Secretary had been promoted
from LDB's senior officers. The total staff as of June 30, 1972 was 1,339,
of which 219 were at head office and 1,120 at the branch offices, many of
whom are graduates with considerable experience; 253 were in managerial
positions. At present, LDB relles on goveroment officers wlo are not under
its control, fo- Oioan appraisal and fol.ow-up. wichn is considered not
adequate (para 16-19). Supervision of branches from head office is also
inadequate. The weakness in the system has been realized by LDB and a
three-year staff development plan has been proposed which would result in
almost doub linq of staff at all l  e_Is; in particular, LDB proposes to
build u,3 iz6 omn field staff and to decentralize administrative and super-
visory authority.  Tn detail, the plan provides for:
(a)  Recruitment of Field Officers (urniversity graduates in
agriculLure) who would wor' 2tT de" the direction of the
branch managers on loan appe isal , follow-up and collection.
Field Officers would be recruited on the basis of one for
about 200 loans a  odper year, as this Is the maximum
number of loans reat a Field OffiCer can be expected to
handle effectiv&ly, There would, however. be at least
one Fi-eld Officer for every branch exceot for those
branches in the State's hill T.istrlcts and the Buiidelkhand
oi.rea:.
(b)  Employme:nL of lunior agrioul tura3 ':.f I ers (ca)led Kisan
Sewak). who would be E qivalenc to tha Village Level
Workers (VLV) and would supplement their work in helping
farmers with loan applications., %rozurement of legal
docu -; s and would assist branc.i nwnagers wL loan
supUiviJ<ion and collections.  Sufficient Kisai Sewaks
will be recruited to ensure that there would be at least
three Kisan Sewaks to assist eac.:h Fiell Off-iceT;
(c)  Appointmeat of eight Regional Managers, one for each
Revenue Division in the State except the Divisions
coaiprising the hill Districts and the Bundelkhand area,
to supervise the operations of all branches in the
Division and to liaise with appropriate Government
personnel;
(d)  With increasing loan volume, employment of assistant
accountants, legal assistants and other supporting staff
in accordance with norms established by LDB in consultation
with ARC; and
(e)  Establishment of a Technical Cell at head office, initially
comprising a senior and a junior agricultural economist,
a civil engineer and a geologist, who will be primarily



ANNEX 5
Page 3
en-aged in the preparation and technical evaluation of
minor irrigation schemes proposed for refinancing by
ARC, and besides that would advise management and field
staff on technical and economic matters.
5.        To ensure the successful implementation of the Project, priority in
recruitment should be accorded to the Project area, and in particular to those
branches with unacceptably high overdues. It is considered essential that:
(a) One Field Officer and one Kisan Sewak be in position
in every branch in the Project area before effectiveness
of the credit;
(b) Within one year after credit effectiveness, the number of
Field Officers in each branch in the Project area will be
increased in accordance with a staffing scale that will ensure
that no Field Officer has responsibility for more than about
200 loans approved per year; and
(c) The Technical Cell be established at head office before
credit effectiveness.
Training facilities for junior and intermediate level staff are available
in Uttar Pradesh at Training Centers and the Cooperative Training College
maintained by the UP Cooperative Union and the National Cooperative Union
of India respectively. Senior officers would be deputed for training
courses at the Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Cooperative Management
in Poona, which is run in cooperation with the Reserve Bank of India.
However, in consultation with ARC, a training program for staff to be recruited
under the Project should be drawn up by the LDB for IDA approval within 6
months of credit effectiveness.
6.        Head office operations are organized in 5 sections and 16 subsec-
tions as shown below:
(a) Establishment and General Administration with 2
subLsections: Establishment and General Administration;
(b) Accounts Section with 5 subsections: Remittances,
Budget Control, Final Accounts, Recovery and Share and
Dividend;
(c) Loan Section with 4 subsections: Loan, Legal, Deed
and Special Schemes;
(d) Debenture Section with 3 subsections: Ordinary
Debentures, Rural Debentures and Special Development
Debentures; and
(e) Audit and Inspection Section with 2 subsections:
Audit and Inspection.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Each section is supervised by an Assistant Secretary. A splitting of sections
and upgrading of subsections to sections is planned with further expansion
of operations.
7.        Each branch office is administered by a Branch Manager, who
is supported by a Branch Management Committee, which consists of 4 members
residing in the branch area and 5 official members, representing the
Cooperative, Agrizulture, Planning and Minor Irrigation Departments and the
Cane Commissioner in the district. The committee is always chaired by a
nonofficial. Loan applications up to an amount of Rupees 8,000 are placed
before the Branch Management Committee for consideration and sanction.
Larger loan applications have to be forwarded to head office (on average
less than 2% of all applications).
B. Source of Funds
8.        LDB's owr. funds consist of the share capital and reserves.  The
paid-up share capital as at June 30, 1972 was Rs 80.60 million (US$10.7
million), of which Rs 19.09 million (24%) was subscribed by the State Govern-
ment and Rs 61.51 million (76%) contributed by approximately 430,000 borrowers,
who are required to buy shares to the extent of 3% or 5% of the loan amount:
3% in the case of farmers assisted under the Small Farmers Development Agency
(SFDA) schemes and 5% by all other farmers. The following table shows the
growth of LDB's issued share capital divided as to the private members and
State Government subscriptions as of the dates shown (in Rs million):
June 30, 1969  June 30, 1970  June 30, 1971  June 30, 1972
Private Members    26.64  (79%)   35.90  (84%)   48.91  (80%)   61.51  (76%)
State Government    7.09  (21%)    7.09  (16%)   12.09  (20%)   19.09  (24%)
Total Issued      33.73 (100x)   42.99 (100%)   61.00 (100%)   80.60 (100%)
The di-vidend on the share capital has been limited to 3.25%.  As at June 30,
1972, reserves. provisions and undistributed profits totalled Rs 39.7
million (US$5.3 million), representing 4.1% of total loan portfolio.
,1.       In addition to the short-term finance provided by the Uttar
Pradesh Cooperative Bank Ltd., the apex organization of the essentially
short-term cooper2tive credit system, and the State Bank of India 1/, one of
the leading commercial banks, LDB's borrowings derive from the issue of
debentures. These are guaranteed by the State Government as to the payment
of interest and repayment of principal and are secured by effective mort-
gages executed over the assets. As in the case of similar banks in other
states of India, LDB floats three types of debentures:
1/   At 8-9% per annum interest rate.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(a) Ordinary Debentures which are subscribed to primarily
by the GOI, the UP State Government, the Life Insurance
Corporation of India, the State Bank of India and land
development banks in other states of India, the balance
being sold in the open market. Forty-two series of
debentures have been issued so far. The rates of
interest vary from 4.5% per annum to 6% per annum, and
the redemption periods from 10 to 15 years. At present,
10 years debentures are floated at 5-3/4% per annum.
(b) Rural Debentures which are sold with the purpose to
encourage the mobilization of savings in the rural areas.
They are guaranteed by the State Government and are
marketable. The first type, to be subscribed by in-
dividuals only, is repayable after 5 years at an annual
interest rate of 6%. To stimulate their sales, RBI
subscribes one debenture for every seven rural debentures
sold to individuals. This second type is repayable after
10 years and carries an interest rate of 5% per annum.
The scheme has not been very successful, partly because
the interest rate is unattractive when compared with
rates offered by commercial banks and noninstitutional
borrowers. In a further effort to mobilize rural savings,
LDB has recently introduced a scheme of fixed deposits for
one and two years carrying interest rates of 7% per annum
and 7-1/2% per annum respectively. Such deposits can be
accepted from individuals only and are not guaranteed by
the State Government. This scheme is regarded as more
promising although up to June 30, 1972 only Rs 0.7 million
were collected.
(c) Special Development Debentures which are issued for financing
specific agricultural schemes in defined areas, approved by
the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC). They are
subscribed by ARC and the State Government currently in
the ratio 9:1 for minor irrigation projects and 3:1 for
other schemes. The periods of these debentures vary from
7 to 11 years, the interest rate has been raised from
previously 6% to 6.5% per annum with effect from November
1970.
10.       The following table shows the growth of LDB's outstanding
debenture borrowings as of the dates shown (Rs million):



ANNEX 5
Page 6
June 30, 1970         June 30, 1971           June 30, 1972
Amount  % of Total   Amount  % of Total    Amount  x of Total
Ordinary
Debentures    536.5       91.3       704.9       90.9         916.9      88.5
Rural
Debentures       9.0        1.5        8.6        1.1          15.6       1.5
Special
Development
Debentures      42.0        7.2       62.2        8.0         103.3      10.0
587.5     100.0       775.7      100.0       1,035.8    100.0
The table shows that the bulk of the financial requirements was raised
through ordinary debentures and that rural debentures have not shown any
improvement in relation to total amount of debentures issued. The volume
of special development debentures has slightly increased over the last
three years and they are expected to have a considerably larger share in
the future.
11.       LDB's borrowing may not exceed 10 times the paid up share capital
and reserves without special sanction of the registrar of cooperative
societies. Such sanction has been accorded and the current limit has been
set at Rs 1,750 million, providing for sufficient room for expansion.
C. Lending Oprations
Loan Purposes -ird Volume
12.       LDB lends for a wide range of agricultural purposes on a medium-
and long-term basis. These purposes include:
(a) The construction and improvement of minor irrigation
facilities (sinking of masonry wells or tubewells,
installation of pump sets, construction of canals, etc.);
(b) Land reclamation and improvement;
(c) Purchase of farm machinery, in particular tractors and
implements;
(d) Purchase of land and land occupancy rights;
(e) Redemption of previous debts secured by mortgage over
the farm; and
(f) Such other purposes as the Board may determine to be for
land improvement or agricultural production.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
13.       In response to farmers' demand and Government policy, the bulk
of the funds has been provided for minor irrigation works. Lending for
other purposes is of little importance as can be seen from the following
table showing total loan disbursements up to March 31, 1972:
No. of      Amount          % of       % of Total
Loan Purpose          Loans    in Rs Million   Total No.       Amount
Minor Irrigation Works   373,145          957.0         91.68         92.75
Land Improvement           17,998          23.6          4.42          2.29
Farm Mechanization          7,809          33.3          1.92          3.23
Land Purchase                  745          0.5          0.18          0.05
Debt Redemption             3,095           5.2          0.76          0.50
Other                       4?242          12.2          1.04          1.18
Total                407,034       1,031.8        100.00       100.00
The concentration on financing minor irrigation facilities has even increased
in recent years. In 1971/72, 98.7% of all disbursements were for minor
irrigation purposes and no loans were granted for land improvement and debt
redemption. Land purchase loans (only 6 during the last three years) are
restricted to consolidation of holdings.
Interest Rate2s and Lending Terms
14.       The lending rate on all loans, irrespective of loan period and
purpose, has been raised from 8-1/4% per annum to 9% per annum with effect
from December 1, 1971. Repayment periods vary from six years for loans for
pumpsets up to 5 horsepower, to nine years for tubewells and masonry wells
equipped with persian wheels, and for construction of irrigation canals.
Tractors and power threshers are financed over a period of 7 years. Repayment
normally commences 18 months after completion of the investment. Installments
fall due in June or December thus following the harvest periods by about
one month, which is reasonable. A minimum cultivated holding ranging from
one acre to 20 acres (for tractors) and the maximum loan amount is laid down
for different investments. A minimum distance to existing wells ranging from
100 meters to 300 meters depending on the area is to be observed before loan
sanction. These lending terms are considered basically sound.
15.       Loan applicants have to buy shares in LDB's capital to the value
of 5% of the loan (3% in the case of "Small" farmers, see para 8). In
addition, borrowers are at present required to contribute 5% of the total
cost of the investment which may take the form of labor or other contribu-
tions in kind. Downpayments for tractors amount to 25% of the purchase
price on top of the 5% share capital. Details of lending terms and condi-
tions for the proposed Project are outlined in Schedule A.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Lending Procedures
16.       Loan applications are processed in the initial stages not by LDB's
own staff, but the Government administration at block level. The Village
Level Worker (VIW) canvasses for prospective borrowers, assists in the
completion of the application form which is sold at a small fee, and helps to
obtain the required legal documents to establish legality of land ownership
and possession. The information is then verified by another government officer,
usually an Assistant Development Officer (ADO), who calculates the land value,
gives a rough estimate of the repayment capacity of the applicant and,
together with his recommendations, the necessary fees and the value of one
share (Rs 20), forwards the application through his superior, the Block
Development Officer to the local LDB branch office.
17.       The valuation of the land, which is to be offered as security for
all loans, is based on the land revenue tax payable and not on market prices.
In the case of bhumidhari land 1/, the value of one acre is arrived at by
multiplying the land revenue tax payable per acre (average Rs 4) by 533.
The loan eligibility is 50% of this value. For sirdari land 2/ the factor
is 250 times an average tax of Rs 7/acre, and the eligibility is 40% of the
value. For loans granted under ARC schemes the loan limit can be raised to
75% of the land value, and the State Government has guaranteed LDB any loss
due to shortage of collateral, provided this limit had not been exceeded.
In addition to the land, the proposed investment cost up to an amount of
Rs 6,000 can be added to the security value and 50% thereof financed as
loan. Under these arrangements security is normally no constraint in pro-
viding farmers wiah the required finance.  Where securities are insufficient,
farm holdings would be too small to meet economic and spacing criteria, and
a group loan should be considered.
18.       Loan applications up to Rs 8,000 are considered by the Management
Committee of the LDB branch and are usually sanctioned within five weeks
from filing of applications so long as the documents relating to legality
of land ownership are found in order. Larger applications are forwarded to
head office. After approval the borrower is advised to pay the balance
of his share capital and to get the mortgage executed in favor of the bank.
In the case of minor irrigation works, the ADO, Minor Irrigation (ADOMI),
is responsible for the siting of the well and the suitability of the equip-
ment to be purchabed. He also inspects the utilization of funds and issues
certificates after completion of each stage of construction upon which
suppliers are paid by check direct by the bank. A partial cash payment is
made to borrowers at the beginning of construction to cover labor and other
mainor expenses.
1/ Bhumidhari land is freehold land with no restrictions on ownership.
2/ Sirdari land is leasehold land, owned by government, which can be
mortgaged by the lessee and acquired from government by paying
20 times the land revenue tax.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
19.       The present appraisal work cannot be considered satisfactory as
LDB relies entirely on government staff outside its control. Loan processing
is only one of many functions of VLWs and other staff at the block who,
therefore, can only devote limited time to it.  Apart from that they are
not trained in loan appraisal and are not responsible for the collection of
loans appraised by them.  The assessment is primarily security-oriented and
not sufficient consideration is given to the economic benefits derived
from the loan.  This altogether may, in part, account for the high default
rate. It is, therefore, regarded as essential that LDB employs its own Field
Officers (see para 4 and 5) for loan appraisal and collection to strengthen and
sup?lement the loan work presently done by government officers. One Field
Officer, an agricultural graduate, should be recruited for each 200 or so
new loans approved per year. The Field Officers should be trained in modern
appraisal techniques. In addition, each branch office should have at least
one junior agricultural officer (called Kisan Sewak), who would assist farmers
with loan applications and procurement of the required legal documents and
help branch managers with loan follow-up and recovery. The loan work of the
VLWs would continue as at present with the exception of l1an appraisal. The
Field Officer would ascertain that the siting of wells is in accordance with
the spacing criteria established by the State Groundwater Directorate for
the specific area. He would also appraise the loan application, i.e.
primarily verify the data concerning the applicant and the farm, calculate
the applicant's repayment capacity, assess his capability and character and
carry out a valuation of the securities offered.
20.       The following table shows the rapid expansion of LDB's lending
operations from its inception to June 30, 1972:
Loan Amount Advanced       Increase (Decrease)         Increase
Year              During Year           Against Previous Year       (Decrease)
(in Rs Million)            (in Rs Million)
1960/61                   0.29                     0.29
1961/62                   1.54                     1.25                   431
1962/63                   4.38                     2.84                   184
1963/64                   7.33                     2.95                    67
1964/65                  12.59                     5.26                    72
1965/66                  59.67                    47.08                   374
1966/67                  69.82                    10.15                    17
1967/68                 103.05                    33.23                    48
1968/69                 189.79                    86.74                    84
1969/70                 170.73                   (19.06)                  (10)
1970/71                 216.23                    45.50                    27
1971/72                 239.95                    23.72                    11
Total               1,075.37



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Of the total of Rs 1,075 million advanced during the past 12 years, Rs 957
million were outstanding as of June 30, 1972. The number of loans granted
was about 72,000 in 1971/72 against 80,000 in 1970/71 and 70,000 in 1969/70.
The average loan amount shows a rising trend to Rs 3,324 in 1971/72.
D. Operational Results
Repayment Position
21.       LDB's overdues (principal and interest due and not repaid) position
has deteriorated over the last three years as shown in the following table:
Year       Total Demand   Total Recoveries   Percentage Recoveries
----------Rs Million----------
1969/70           58.91           50.14                   85.1%
1970/71          93.61             74.59                  79.7%
1971/72          131.49           98.78                   75.1%
Some of the overdues can be attributed to the poor harvest during last
year's kharif season caused by extensive floods and the recent drought
afflicted kharif ceason. Inadequate staff for proper loan appraisal,
emphasis on rapid expansion, poor performance of some of the branch
managers and the lack of an organized and strong collection effort with no
legal action being taken against defaulters who are unwilling to pay, are
other reasons for the overall decline in the recovery rate. A breakdown
of the overdues as to principal and interest is not available.
22.       The overdues position in the Project area is worse than the overall
position, mainly because it is a generally less developed area and more
affected by natural hazards.
Year       Total Demand   Total Recoveries   Percentage Recovered
    ---Rs Nillion----
1969/70          9.67              6.94                   71.8%
1970/71          17.73             11.57                  65.3%
1971/72          30.20             18.83                  62.4%
The performance of individual branches varies considerably. As of June 30,
1972, out of the 55 branches in the Project area, 20 had overdues of 25% or
less, 21 between 26% and 40%, and 14 more than 40%. No rescheduling of loans
had been undertaken. The arrears position is considered still manageable
as about 55% were overdue for less than 1 year, and only 10% for more than
three years. A penalty rate of 2% per annum is charged on all arrears.
23.       Although LDB's overall overdues are slightly less than 25% of
demand, and it therefore would qualify under IDA's policy that allows



ANNEX 5
Page 11
institutions with less than 25% overdues to participate in an agricultural
credit project, the downward trend in overdues has to be stopped and changed
if the institution is to maintain its future viability and proper functioning.
It was, therefore, accepted by GOI, ARC, the UP State Government and the
LDB, that the condition on overdues applied to LDB as a whole should also be
applicable to each branch. An intensive and planned loan collection effort
is to be made and, if necessary, foreclosure action would be taken. LDB
would be required to submit a program, acceptable to IDA, for the improvement
of the overdues position so that in the Project area, at least 30 branches
would qualify to participate by the date of credit effectiveness and 40 by
the end of the first year of Project execution. The capacity and degree of
penetration of this number of branches would be adequate to achieve full
Project implementation within the three-year period envisaged. In order to
implement the loan recovery program, LDB would have to build up its own
field staff at branch level (para 4, 5 and 19).
Profits
24.       Net profits of LDB have not been large, but increased steadily
and were sufficient to meet all obligations and to accumulate some reserves.
As a result, the own capital (share capital, provisions and reserves) has
slightly increased to a satisfactory 9.5 percent of total funds available.
Net Profit be-   Provisions &  Paid-up        Total Own Own Capital in
Year      fore Distribution  ReservesLi  Share Capital  Capital  % of Total Funds
----------------------- in Rs Million-
1968/69           5.94            5.84        33.73          45.51         8.66
1969/70           7.86           11.37        42.99          62.22         8.67
1970/71          10.05           18.53        60.99          89.57         9.24
1971/72          13.02           26.69        80.60         120.31         9.53
/1   Including undistributed profits of previous years.
The provisions and reserves consist mainly of the Statutory Reserve Fund (25%
of net profits), the Agricultural Credit Stabilization Fund (15% of net profits)
to meet bad debts on account of natural hazards, the Risk Fund, which was
established for possible losses from SFDA schemes and the Fund for Bad and
Doubtful Debts (Rs 1.4 million) for which there is no legal requirement,
but which covers the bad and doubtful debts as identified by the auditors.
At present, LDB borrows from ARC at 6.5% per annum and lends to farmers
at 9%; the cost of borrowings from other sources vary from 4.5% per annum
to 9% per annum (see para 9). The interest margin of 2.5% per annum on
lendings under the proposed Project should be sufficient to cover opera-
tional expenses and provide for some reserves (see income and expenditure
projections in Appendix 5-3). For 1971/72, the dividend on share capital has
been fixed at 3.25 percent.



ANNEX 5
Page 12
Financial Condition
25.       Condensed balance sheets for the years 1967 to 1972 are shmom in
Appendix 5-3. The equity position as of June 30, 1972 w.as unimpaired by
losses and the reserves and provisions still covered the overdue.s. The
liquidity position is satisfactory; cash on hand and in banks is kept at a
low level, as overdraft facilities are available. Investments are mainly
in debentures of other land development banks, which a.re guaranteed by
state governments, and in GOI securities. A five year projection of UBVs
financial position is given in Appendix 5-4.
Audit
26.       The accounts of LDB are audited by independent auditors of the
Cooperative Audit Organization which, unlike in other parts of India,
reports to the Finance Department of the UP State Government. The practice
is a post audit and not a concurrent audit, for which sufficient staff is
made available to branches and head office as soon as the final accounts
are submitted. LDB's accounts are complete and properly maintained and
the audit is considered satisfactory.
April 12, 1973



I 11 D I A
UTTAR PRAnx:SI AGRICUTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Lttar Pradesh State Co-operative Land Development Bank Ltd.
Condensed Statement of Income
For Fiscal Years 1966/67 - 1971/72
1966/67                   1967/68                       1968/69                     1969/70                   197r/71                  1971/72
% of Total                % of Total                     o of Total                 $ of Total                % of Total               5 of Total
Particulars        Rs'OOO       Income        Rs'OOO      Income            Rs'OOO     Income          Rs'OOO       Income       Rs '000      Income      Rs'000       Income
I N C O M E
Interest eerned on loans      8,795       85.0         15,809        88.6             27,314      86.4           41,793        89.5        55,504        87.3       72,671        86.7
Interest earned on investments  370        3.6            730         4.1              1,760       5.6            3,090         6.6         5,377         8.4        8,405        10.0
Other Income                  1,177        u.4          1,312       __3                2,516       8.0            1.815        J-           2,712         4.3        2,798         3.3
Total Income:          10,342       100.0         17,851      100.0             31,590      100.0           46,698      100.0        63,593       100.0       83,874       100.0
E X PE N S B S
Interest on debentures and
loans                       6,734       65.1         11,933        66.9             21,148      66.9           32,254        69.1        43,365        68.2       58,169        69.4
Salaries and allowances       1,218        11.8         1,663         9.3              2,329        7.4           3,692         7.9         4,487         7.1        4,930         5.9
Misce]llaneous cferheads
and depreciation             783         7.6         1,401         7.8              2,170        6.9           2,889         6.2         5,691         8.9        7,756         9.2
Total Expenditure       8,735        84.5         14,997       84.o             25,647       81.2           38.835        83.2        53.543        84.2      70.855         84.5
Net Income:             1,607        15.5         2,854        16.0              5,943       18.8            7,863        16.8        10.050        15.8       13,019        15.5
November 30, 1972
H



I N D I A
UTTAR PRADESH{ AGRICULTU11AL CREDIT PROJECT
Uttar Pradesh State Coonerative and DeveloRnet Bank, Ltd.
Cqndensed Projected Stataent of Net Income
For Fiscal Years 1971/72 - 1976/77
1971/72                       197273                1973/74           _          1974/7± 5                                 197576 1976/77
7. of Total               7 of Total                % of Total                 7 of Total                    % of Total               7 of Total
Particulars                                    Rs.M            Income        Rs. M.       Income        Rs .M.      Income         Rs .M       Income          Rs .m.      Income        R .M.       Income
INCEIM:
Interest on loans 1/                        72.67            86.7         92.30         85.6          115.00       84.9         136.90         84.0          157.00       82.1        174.50       79.9
Interest on Investments 2/                   8.40             10.0         12.00         11.1          16.80        12.4         22 50         13.8           30.50       16.0         40.20       18.4
Miscellaneous Income 3/                       2.80             3.3          3.50          3.3           3.60         2.7           3.60         2.2            3.70        1.9          3.70        1.7
Total Income:                        83.87            100.0        107.80        100.0         135.40       100.0         163.00       100.0           191.20      100.0        218.40      100.0
EXPENSES:
Interest and other cost on                  62.84             74.9         78.80         73.1          91.60        67.7         107.30        65.8          121.70       63.7        133.50       61.1
borrovings 4/
Administrative Expenses                       6.55             7.8         14.20         13.2          19.10        14.1          21.40        13.1           23.80       12.5         26.40       12.1
Miscellaneous Expenses                        1.46             1.8          1.10          1.0           1.10         0.8           1.10         0.7            1.10        0.6           1.10       0.5
Total Expenses:                       70.85            84.5         94.10         87.3         111.80        82.6         129.80        79.6           146.60       76.7        161.00       73.7
Net Income:                           13.02            15.5         13.70         12.7          23.60        17.4          33.20        20.4            44.60       23.3         57.40       26.3
1/ Based on 8.257 p.a. on loans sanctioned to November 30, 1971 and 97 p.s. thereafter.
2/ Assumes average return of 5.757 p.a.
3/ Mainly Admission Fee (Rs.1, payable when filing loan application) and Administrative Fee (97_.of loan amount up to Rs.80 maximum.)
4/ Assume. 657. p.a. interest rate on Special Development Debentures and average 6X p.a. on all other borrowings plus  under-writing
comsission and discount on debentures
December 15, 1972



I N D I A
UTTAR PRADUH AGRICULTURAL CRaDIT PROJECT
Uttar Pradesh State Cooperative Development Bank Ltd.
Gondensed BJ.akno  Sheet at End of Fiseal Years 1966/67 - 19-71/72
.(in Rs,_&llion)      .
Particulars          June 30 .........       1967          1968          1969        1970        1971        1972
A S S E T S
Cash on hand and in banks                            6.63         17.96         21.78        14.43       15.86       30.75
Investments                                         12.09         23.86         46.41        84.24     139.56      196.66
Loans                                              148.22        246.45        424.98       575.57      761.60     956.71
Other Assets                           I1.33                      17.28         32.60                    52.32       77.78
Total Assets    .. La78.27          305-55       525.77       717.69      969.34   1,261.90
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Debentures                                         128.28        235.77        396.35       587.45      775.66   1,035.74
Overdrafts                                          24.99         25.09         63.36        48.50       83.84       79.77
Other Liabilities                                                               20 .55       19.52       20.27       26.08
Total Liabilities ........ 158.83          27671           0.26       6    7     879.77   1,141.59
C A P I T A L
Paid-up share capital                               16.66         22.70         33.73        42.99       60.99       80.60
Reserves and net income                               3.28         6.14         11.78        19.23       28.58       39.71
Total Capital: ...........    19.44         28.84         45051 62.22              89.57     120.31
Total Liabilities and
Capital ...........2..                                         7    7.69                1 
November 30, 1972.



I N D I A
UTIAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Uttar Pra,&sh State Cooperative Land Developaent Bank, Ltd.
Condensed Projeoted Balance Sheet
(in Re. Million)
Particulars            June 30                          1972          1973           1974            1975              1976                1977
Assets
Cash on hand and with banks                             30.75          10.00 1/        10.00            10.00           10.00               10.00
Investments  2/                                       196.66          266.70          365.20          496.30           651.00              812.10
Loans Outstanding: Under the Project                      -              -            108.80 3/       163.10 4/        271.90 5/           543.80
Other                              956.71       1,228.10        1,382.20         1,570.90         1,669.10            1,562.70
Other Assets                                            77.78          75.00           75.00           75.00            85.00               85.00
Total Assets:                           1,261.90        1,579.80       1,941.20         2,315.30         2,687.00            3,013.60
Liabilities and Capital
Debentures                                          1,035.74        1,341.20      1,643.30          1,943.40         2,227.60            2,487.20
Other Liabilities                                      105.85          84.20 6/      107.80           135.10           165.60              161.60
Paid-up Share Capital                                  80.60          103.00         120.00           138.00           156.00              174.00
Reserves and Net Income 7/                              39.71          51.40          70.10            98.80           137.80              190.80
Total Liabilities and Capital:          1,261.90        1,579.80      1,941.20          2,315.30         2,687.00           3,013.60
1/   Reduction because better management of funds assumed in future after over-draft facilities opened in districts.
2/  Mainly appropriations of Sinking Fund.
3/  Assumes 20% disbursement of total project (Rs5413.8 million).
4/  Assumes 307. disbursement of total project.
5    Assumes 50%. disbursement of total project.
6/  Assumes better 'ollections in 1973 and consejpuently less overdraft requir-ents.
7/   Excluding 3.257. dividend in 1972, 47 in 1973 to 1974 and 5% in 1975 to 1977.
December 15, 1972                                                                                                                                     F



ANNEX 6
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Principal Commercial Banks Operating in Uttar Pradesh
State Bank of India Group
State Bank of India 1/ 2/
State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur
Nationalized Banks
Allahabad Bank 1/ 2/
Bank of Baroda T/ 7/
Bank of India 1/ 2/
Canara Bank 1/
Central Bank of India 1/ 2/
Dena Bank 1/
Indian Overseas Bank 1/
Punjab National Bank T/
Syndicate Bank
Union Bank of India 1/ 2/
United Bank of India 1/
United Commercial Bank 1/
Banks with Private Ownerships
Bareilly Corporation (Bank) Ltd.
The Benares State Bank Ltd. 1/
Hindustan Commercial Bank Ltd. 1/
Narang Bank of India Ltd. 1/
The Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd. 1/
All these banks are scheduled, i.e., they are included in the Second Schedule
to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. They have paid-up capital and
reserves of at least Rs 500,000 and are entitled to certain borrowing facil-
ities from the Reserve Bank of India.
1/   Operating in the Project area.
2/   Lead Bank in one or more districts in the Project area.  Under the Lead
Bank Scheme of the Reserve Bank of India, all the 336 districts in the
country (with the exception of the metropolitan areas of Bombay, Calcutta
and Madras and Union Territories of Chandigarh, Delhi and Goa) are
allocated among the major scheduled banks. The Lead Bank is responsible
for coordinating the efforts of the financial institutions in the
district and liaising with the district authorities in the interest of
their Lead district development. Lead banks are required to survey
their respective Lead district to identify areas for bank expansion.
They chair the District Consultative Committees.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
IND)IA
UTTAR PRADESII AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Marketing in Uttar Pradesh
1.        There are currently 250 main agricultural markets and about 400
submarkets in UP. All main markets operate 5 days a week throughout the year
and distances from most villages to the nearest market seldom exceed 20 kip,
which can be covered by bullock carts in a day. In the Project area, there
are 63 of these markets. Many of the markets thiroughout the State have in-
adequate physical facilities, such as space for the conduct of open auctions
as well as storage, and grading of produce; and these inadequate facilities
have become more pronounced in recent years, due to increased agricultural
production and market arrivals.
2.        Regulations and promotion of agricultural marketing are undertaken
by the State Government tlhrough its Directorate of Marketing in the Depart-
ment of AgricLlture with the objective of: (a) ensuring fair marketing
practices so that farmers receive equitable prices for their produce, and
(b) establishing adequate facilities and conditions which will contribute
towards an efficient marketing system. Legislative authority for these
functions is the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1964. En-
forcement of the marketing regulations rests with the Directorate of Market-
ing which is also responsible for appointing staff to manage the markets,
as well as developing and implementing schemes for the improvement of market-
ing. Of the total of 250 main agricultural markets, 223 have to date-been
brought under the Act and are called regulated markets.
Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Produce Markets Act - 1964
3.        Tht Act provides for the establishment of Market Committees which
would operate regulated markets as well as administer the provisions of the
Act. A Market Committee would consist of officials of the State Government,
and representatives of producers (sellers), buyers, commission agents, and
marketing cooperatives. The executive officer (Secretary) of the Market
Committee, an official appointed by the Director of Marketing (head of the
Directorate of Marketing), would be responsible for day-to-day market
operations and would be assisted by employed staff.
4.        The functions of the Market Committee would be to implement the
provisions of the Act, such as (a) setting of approved grading standards;
(b) conducting orderly and fair trading practices through open auctions,
so that the seller is assured of a competitive price; (c) regulating the
opening, closing or suspension of trading; (d) requiring the licensing of
market intermediaries in order to regulate their activities; (e) providing
adequate marketing facilities and their proper maintenance; and (f) collect-
ing and disseminating information on prices and volume of sales.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
5.        All marketing activities in the regulated market take place under
the supervision of the Secretary and staff of the Market Committee.  Pending
the state-wide election of members of the Market Committees which would take
place for the first time in the very near future, all regulated marketu are
presently managed by the Market Secretaries and their staff. The various
trade charges set by the Market Committee and to be borne by the buyers are
(a) fees to commission agents at Rs 1.50 per Rs 100 value of sales for .41j
agricultural produce except fruits and vegetables (Rs 3.00 for the lattej:);
and (b) Rs 0.15 per 100 kg for use of weighing facilities. The seller is
charged a fee of Rs 0.50 per Rs 100 value of sales by the Market Committee.
However, this fee, together with a small sum from the licensing of inter-
mediaries which accrues to the Market Committee, are insufficient to co.ver
its operating and development costs.  Market development programs would have
to be financed mainly from grants and loans from the State Government.
January 16, 1973



ANNEX 8
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Increase in Cropped Area and Production
CROPPED AREA (ha)                PRODUCTION (tons)
Full                             Full
ProJected Crops         Before   Development  Increase  Before   Development  Increase.
Paddy U                  49,000     75,000     260,ooo    49,ooo     195,000   14.6,ooo
Jowir                   22,250      18,500      (3,750)   22,250      33,300    11,050
MaizeJ                    1,000     20,500      19,500     1,200      53,300    52,100
Wheat'                   20,500     86,000      65,500    241,600    258,000   233,,400
Barley                   17,500      7,500    (10,000)   17,5Q0       15,000    (2,500)
Arhar                    22,250       -        (22,250)   22,250         -      (22,25o)
Gram                     21,000       -        (21,000)   16,800         -      (16,800)
Field Pea                   -       18,500     18,500       -         22,200    22,200
Subtotal Foodgrains 153,500    226,000       72,500   153,600      576.800   423,200
Sugarcane                 9,500     13,500      4,000   190,000     540,000   350,000
Potato                      -       10,000     10,000       -        125,000   125,000
Subtotal                9.500     23.500     14,000   190.000      665.000   475.000
Total                   163a 000    24,g500    86§500   3U3.600   1,241.800   898.200
March 27, 1973






ANNEX 9
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTUPLL CREDIT P7iOJECT
Detailed Investaent Cost and Yield A-souertiows
Financial
GO 83S                                                     NET
AEA  (ha                 YIELD (t                   PRoDUCTION VALUE (Rs)         PRODUCTION COST (P.)        PRODUCTION VALUE (Re)
Before     Develo.pent       Before      Development      Before      Developrent      Before      Deve1opment      Before      Developsent          Increoental
ISedal so. I. Cnvostse,nt±Maoon rry Well  ith Persian Wheel (R. 2,810); Irrigated Area 1 ha
KNARIF     Paddy                      C.4             0.5           1.0            2.6            200           65o            132           455              68          195                  1-7
Joa,r ard                  0.2             -            1.0             -              6o            -              31            -               29            -                  (29)
Arhar  (mixed)                                         1.0             -              90            -              22            -               68            -                  (S8)
Maise                      0.1            0.3           1.2            2.6             66           429              44          298              22           131                 1G9
Jowar                       -             O.1            -             1.8             -            108             -             40              -             60                   6
PABI       Gram                       0.2              -            0.8             -             128            -              50            _              78             -                  (67)
Wheat                      0.3            0.6           1.2            3.0            270         1,350            156            94G            11,           410                 2.6
Field Pea                   -             0.1            -             1.2             -             96             -              75             -             21                  21
Sugaroa-e                  -              0.1            -            40.0                          4 450           -            322             -            128                  128
Cropoieg Inteneity:    120c7o          161 61o                                                                                                                                   _7i
Model No. II. Inveetnit 2 Shallow Tobewell. Diesel P-wered (Rs 9.800); Irrigated Area 2 ha Plus 1 ha  Off-Farm
KHABIF     Paddy                      0.5             1.0           1.0            2.6            250         1,300            165           709             85           511                  42 
Jo-r and                   -.75            -            1.0             -             225            -             115            -             110             -                 1110)
Arhar (mixed)                                          l.0             -             337            -              82,            -            253             -                  (2, )
Maize                       _             0.25           -             2.6              -           357              -           222              -            135                 135
Jower                       -             0.25           -             1.8              -           270              -            82              -           1P8                  °18
PAbI       Gran                       0.3              -            0.8             -             192            -              76            -             116            -                  (116)
-   lwks4t                 0.25           1.0           1.2            3.0            225         2,250            130         1,257              95           993                 998
Barlor                     0.25           0.25          1.0            2.0 1°2                      250             99           166              26            84                  58
Field Pe                    -             0.25           -             1.2              -           2A0              -            lld             -             99                  99
Segar--re                  0.15           0.25         20.0           0.0             337         1,125            166           598             171           527                 356
Cn,pping Intensity:    117.5 67o        175 010                                                                                                Plus profit from water sales:  1
Mlodl No. III. IToeatn    10.11w Tahewell  :lectrto Powered (Rh  9,000o ; Irrigated Area 2 ha P1US 1 ha Off-Fore
KARIF       Paddy                      0.5            1.0           1.9            2.6            250         1,300            165           738             85           562                  477
J-wr and                  0.75             -            lo             -             225            -             115            ^              1.0            -                 (112)
Arihar (mixed)                                         2.0             -             337            -              B4            -             253             -                 (253)
RIobe                       -             0.25           _             2.6              -           357              -           212              -            145                 145
Jozer                       -             0.25           -             1.5              -           270              -            74             -            196                  196
PAbE       Grem                       0,3             -            0.8              -            192             -              /6            -             116            -                  (116)
Wheat                      0.25           1.0           1.2            3.0            225         2,250            130         1,127             95         1,123                1,028
Berley                     0.25           0.25          1.0            2.0            125           250             99           1114            26           106                   80
Field Pee                   -             0.25           -             1.2              -           240              -           122              -            118                 113
Sugarcane                  1.15           0.25         20.0           1,0.0           337         1,125            166           513            171            612                 441
Croppitr Totensety!    117.5 c7o       175 67e                                                                                                 Ples profit fr-n voter B.1cc I
Model No. IV. Invoetie t: Median Depth Tebewell. DLesel Powered (do 13,0Co); Irrigated Area 4 ha
ELiA=fi    Paddy                      1.S             2.0           1.0            2.6            750         2,600            494         1,592            256         1,008                  752
Jowar and                 1.0              -              0             -             300            -             153            -             147            -                  (147)
Arnh  (e,lxed)                                         1.0             -             ISo            -             113            -              337            -                 (331)
Maiee                       -             0.5            -             2.6              -           715              -           448              -            267                 267
Te-e                       -             0.5            -             1.3               -          540               -           166             -            374                  374
¶d.8I    Oran                       0.5             -            0.8              -             329            -             126            -             194            -                 (190)
wheat                      0.5            2.5           1.2            3.S            450         5,625           2o6          3,190            290         2,435                2,205
Rorir                      2 .5            -            1.2             -             2502           -             199                            52           -                   (52)
Fie l  Pea                  -             0.5            -             1.2              -           250              -           288             -            192                  192
Sugarcane                  C.25           0.25         22.1           40.0            562         1,125            278           612            285           513                  228
Potato                      -             0.5            -            12.5              -         2,200              -         1,277             -            923                  923
Cr ppiog Inteneity:    L12.5 07o        175 O/e                                                                                                                                 04281
Model No. V. Investnent: Medium Depth Tabewell, Electric Powered (Mo 13,000); Irrigate' Area 2 ha
fIABEF     Paddr                      1.5             2.0           1.0            2.6           7SC          2,600            494         1.,60            256         1,136                  880
J.war and                 l.O              -            1.0             -             300            -             153            -             147            -                  (147)
AliraI (d. ed)                                         1.0             -             450            -             113            -             337            -                  (337)
Maise                       -             o.5            -             2.6              -           715              -           421              -            294                 290
Jower                      -              o.5            -             1.8              -           540              -           148             -            392                  392
RIiI       Gras                       0.5              -            0.6             -             320            -             126            -             194             -                 (194)
Wheat                      0.5            2.5           1.2            3.0            450         5,625            260         2,778             190        2,847                2,657
Barley                     0.5             -            1.0             -             250            -             198            -               52             -                 (52)
Field Pea                   -             0.5            -             1.2              -           L80               -          239              -            24L                 241
Sog a-mne                  0.25           0.25         20.0           40.0            562         1,125            278           503            285           622                  337
Potato                      -             0.3            -            12.5              -         2,200              -         1,228             -            972                  772
Cropping IntensitY      112.5 .o7       175 o/o                                                                                                                                  5,043
Mar    27, 193






ANNEX 9
Appendix 9-1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Current Crop Prices
Current crop prices at harvest being received by farmers within
the Project Area are as follows:
Price in Rs per Ton
Barley                                                   500
Bengal Gram (Chena)                                      800
Field Pea                                                800
\Maize                                                     550
Paddy                                                    500
Potato                                                   350
Red Gram (Arhar, or Pigeon Pea)                          900
Sorghum (Jowar)/Millet                                   600
Sugarcane                                                112.50
\ Wheat                                                     750
February 12, 1973






ANNEX 10
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTRAL CREDIT PROJECT
Finamnial Rates of Return to the Enterprises
Year:                          2                                       5          6             7                          -
Mode L I:     Investment:
Masonry well witF Persian
Area:  c ha                            1
Net Value of Tncrement'a  Production                287         430          517          57L           574         574           574          574            574
Capital Investment                               2 61'             -           -            -             -           -             -          800
Net Increoental Flow                            (7) 430                      517        7        57       4        574            574         (2)             574
Financial Rate ce Return:         7%                    -       -
Model I_:    Investment:  Shallow
Tubewl,fis~Pwrd~s090
Irrigated Area 2 ha plua
1 ha Off Farm
Net Value of Incremertal Production_             1,375        1,795        2,048        2,216         2,216       2,216         2,216        2,216          2,216
Capital Investmcent                              0 89C             -           -            -             -           _                      5 200              -
Net Incremental Flow                            (2) I2 279 2,216                                      2,216       2,217 2(,)                                2,216
Financial Rate of Rieturn:       20%                                         -
Model III:   Investment:  Shallow
Tubewell, Electric Po:eredils 0°00)
Irrigated rea; 2. a Plus 1 ha
Off-Farm
et Value of                                      1,723        2,224        2,525        2,'26         2,726       2,726         2,726        2,726          2,726
Qapital Investment                               °,00             -            -           -             -           -             -        4 40o              -
Net Incremental Flow                             (777)        2,221                                               2,72S          7                          2,727
Financial Rate of' Ret.urn:      32%                                                     e              
Mo.del IV:    Investment:  Mediur
Depth Tubewell, Di e'el P     dwe
(Rs I3,000)Irr2aated Area: 4 ha       1/
Net Value oTncemental  Froduction-               2,125        3,187        3,826        4,251         4.251       4,251         4,251        4,251          4,251
Capital Investment                              13 800             -           --                         -           -             -        6 350              -
NeL Incremental Flow                           (2,671)         T72 71 4,251                            ,51       7; Y           4,251
Financial Rate of Return:        3-
Node] V.      InvestmenLt  Medium
DephTuo,         Electric  7wered
(Rs l7200 Irrigated Area: 4 ha
Net Value  of Incre          -heaal Production'  2,521        3,761        4,539        5,(043        5,043       5,043         5,043        5,043          5,043
Cap!tal Investment                              13  ,00           -            -            -             -           -             -        5550
Net I.-cremental Flow                          (Tn?)          3,761        Z73°         5,743          ,043-      5,03          5,0J3         (507)         5,043
Financial Rate o. Re'urn:        41%
1/ Year 1 - 0%; year 2 - 75%; year 3 - 90%; and all s;boseq ient -ears - IrC0.
Na-c: 27 1,>






ANNEX 1 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rates of return from the Project investments have
been calculated as shown in the following table (Appendix 11-1). The follow-
ing assumptions have been made:
(a)  World market prices as projected by the Commodity and Export
Projections Division of IBRD's Economic Analysis and Projec-
tions Department have been used to estimate benefits. These
projected prices for 1980 (estimated c.i.f. India in rupee
equivalent) are as follows:
Price Per Ton (Rs)
Wheat                                  600 Xt
Paddy                                  490
Maize                                  550 -
Sorghum                                520
Sugarcane                              140
Barley                                 480
(b) Current price levels net of import, excise, and sales taxes,
as well as subsidies, have been used for investments and in
calculating operating costs, with allowance for cost
increases excluded.
(c) Labor has been given the following imputed values according
to seasonal demand:
(i) The prevailing wage rate of Rs 2.30 per man day during
the peak labor demand periods of land preparation,
planting and harvesting; and
(ii) A subsistence wage rate estimated at Rs 1.50 per man
day during the slack labor demand periods of maintenance
work, viz. weeding, fertilizing, etc.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the economic rates of return over the
life of the Project would range from 16% to 35%.
February 12, 1973






ANNEX 11
Appendix 11-1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return to the Enterprises
(Rs)
Year:        1            2         3            4                    6           7           o        9-15
NDRel I:    Investment:
Masonr Well with Persian
W,he1         0
Area 1 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production 1            270         400       480         530       530         530         530         530        530
Capital Investment                             2 760                                 -         -
Net Incremental Flow                          (23 49)                                                               -3Y       7M)           530
Economic Rate of Return:         16%
Model II:   Investment:  Shallow
Tuhtbewell Diesel Powererd R 900)
Irrigated Area 2 ha plus 1 ha
Of ,r Farm
Net Value of Incremental Productioni'          1,230       1,850     2,210       2,460     2,460      2,460        2,460       2,460      2,460
capital Investment                            9o300                      -                -                      -             4 700
Net Incremental Flow                                ) i  2                       aC i                                         (2o)
E-ronmic Rate of Return:         24%
N'-Inl III: Investment: Shallow
Tubewell Electric PoweredTRis 9,0001
Irrigated Area 2 ha plus 1 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production /          1,260       1,890     2,270      2,520      2,520      2,520        2,520       2,520      2,520
Capital Investment                             8 650           -         -           -         -                               4 0
Net Incremental Flow                            t3k)      =1.90      2,770      2-         2           , W                                  2.52
FIonomic Rate of Return:         28%
Model IV:   Investment:  Medium
'PcI,ewell Diesel Powered (Rs 13800
rrrigated Area 4 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production2!          2,220      3,320      3,990      4,430      4,430      4,430        4,430       4,430      4,430
'spital Investment                            13 200                     -                     -
Net Incremental Flow                         (9) 20 1                                0 (               V.
Iiconcesmc Rate of Return:       34%
Model V:    Investment:  Medium
lubewell Electric Powered (Rs 13,000)
Irrigated Area 4 ha
Net Value of Incremental Production 2!         2,150      3,220      3,860      4,290      4,290      4,290        4,290       4,290      4,290
Capital Investment                            1_2.560      __        _I
Ne     t Incremente'f Flow                   (10410)      3; 220                   -           -                               77t)   ;;290
Eontmic Rate of Return:          35%
j  Y-er I - 50,%; year 2 - 75,; year 3 - 90%; all subsequent years 100%.
Mo,,-'n 2', 1973






7E  _  .....  ^.<<,_ ........ Rd' d29 18~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 10274
H Imuch&l __                 ..                                               CeH                                                      I N A INDIA AFGHANISOANI            FEBRUARY N193
H i rn a ch a I                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~INDIA                               -     AFPR, MT
P  d  h  gL$   /  _X >(T S b e t)            Uttar Pradesh
Prode:h  E H R                                                           ~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                 ~          n        (T.i6et)
:    - _ ...\ ... ..ed ..t. .c L                                                                                                    neeB IL k9                                                        i
*    L.D B pronasea branches                                   NLtADES
0~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____ harme;-Nbt dnC  h.nheays                                     3                        t
- -      eltWy I. ad  aue
\ vX J I >\ < k 3 t Holl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  yqy (browd wl.91)\ 
-       Ril-, t-, ad   Rw -rg-)                                      LANKA
\ |   M  ^    fr  J  X   < S S       \        w                                       o    cis.ric. h,3dqu,r,,rs                              ._._^.w r _  w*.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Br e h
S~~~on  o    Prode'
e  an      no        120 ~~~M 1,lAb-dr
G-i lh- Me-r-i-[ b-c.ea-
Crnn                                                                                  e        n       anAisen          enN



