CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 392 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 392 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1973, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
The State of Uttar Pradesh acting by its Governor, (hereinafter called Uttar
Pradesh), has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project,
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association, the
Agricultural Refinance Corporation and the Uttar Pradesh State Cooperative Land
Development Bank, Limited, certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of
the Project have been undertaken by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation and
the Uttar Pradesh State Cooperative Land )evelopment Bank, Limited; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted.


﻿4
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h).
(c)   In Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph
5:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Uttar Pradesh" means The State of Uttar Pradesh acting by its
Governor, a State of India, or any successor thereof.
(b)   "ARC" means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)   "LDB" means Uttar Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development
Bank, Limited, a cooperative society established and organized under the laws of
Uttar Pradesh.
(d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association, ARC and LDB, and all schedules thereto, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
(e)   "Uttar Pradesh Agreement" means the agreement of even 1:.te herewith
between Uttar Pradesh and the Association, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) hereof, and all
schedules thereto. if any, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(g)   "Agricultural Loan" means any loan made or proposed to be made
to a Beneficiary and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(h)   "Beneficiary" means (i) any farmer, (ii) group of farmers or (iii) a
cooperative society carrying out activities relevant to the Project in the territory
of Uttar Pradesh which is eligible to receive an Agricultural Loan.
(i)   "Participating Bank" means any bank listed in the Second Schedule
to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, which has entered into an agreement
with ARC in accordance with Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.


﻿5
(j) "SGD" means the Uttar Pradesh State Groundwater Directorate.
(k)   "MID" means the Uttar Pradesh State Minor Irrigation Department.
(1)   "CGWB" means the Central Groundwater Board established by the
Government of India.
(n)  "Project Area" means the following districts of Uttar Pradesh: Jaunpur,
Ghazipur, Ballia, Gorakhpur, Basti, Azamgarh, Lucknow, Sitapur, Kheri, Faizabad,
Gonda, Bahraich, Sltanpur and Barabanki and such other district or districts as
shall be agreed between the Borrower, Uttar Pradesh, ARC, LDB and the
Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. the Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in    various  currencies equivalent to  thirty  eight million  dollars
($38,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 19X) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August I commencing


﻿6
August 1, 1983 and ending February 1, 2023, each installment to and including
installment payable on February 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cairy out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with ARC
on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement) satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of relending to ARC
for relending to LDB and Participating Banks the equivalent of the proceeds of
the Credit set forth in Schedule I of this Agreement. The Borrower shall exercise
its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
(c)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the relending terms
and conditions and the procedures for the carrying out of the Project shall be
as set forth in Schedules 1 and 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) Uttar Pradesh
to perform all its obligations under the Uttar Pradesh Agreement, and (ii) ARC
and LDB to perform their obligations under the Project Agreement, and shall not
take or permit any of its agencies to take any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance of any such obligations of ARC and LDB.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿7
Section 3.04. Upon request from Uttar Pradesh, the Borrower shall assign
two geohydrologists from CGWB to SGD and maintain such geohydrologists with
SGD until the Project is completed.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARC and LDB to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices their operations and financial condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause ARC and LDB to: (i) establish and maintain
separate accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of
the Project; (ii) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not later
than four months after the end of each such year (A) certified copies of their
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested: and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning their accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from  time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by Uttar Pradesh of its obligations under the Uttar
Pradesh Agreement, the performance by ARC and LDB of their obligations under
the Project Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of
ARC and LDB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and


﻿8
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
th regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
iniurmation shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of ARC, LDB
and Uttar Pradesh and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by Uttar Pradesh of its obligations under the
Uttar Pradesh Agreement, the performance by ARC of its obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the performance by
LDB of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Uttar Pradesh
Agreement and the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from  all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿9
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purpose of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Uttar Pradesh Agreenent; ARC or LDB shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement; or ARC shall have failed
to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situatiol siall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) Uttar Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations under
the Uttar Pradesh Agreement, or (ii) ARC or LDB will be able to perform their
respective obligations Under the Project Agreement, or (iii) ARC will be able to
perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   ARC or LDB shall have become unable to pay any of their debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC or
LDB or by others whereby any of the property of ARC or LDB shall or may
be distributed among its creditors.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any actioln for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC or LDB or for
the suspeIsioll of their operations.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of S. ction 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the defaulting party.


﻿10
(b)   Any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 7.02 .of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of ARC and LDB and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
(b)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)  The Uttar Pradesh Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
by Uttar Pradesh and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action.
(d)   The financial and managerial reorganization of LDB and its branches
has been completed in accordance with the provisions of Section 2. 10 of the Project
Agreement.
(e)   LDB has one Field Officer and one Junior Agricultural Officer (Kisan
Sewak) in position in every branch office in the Project Area.
(f)   LDB has established a Technical Cell at its head office to prepare and
evaluate minor irrigation schemes proposed for refinancing by ARC.
(g)   The two geohydrologists referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement
have taken up their post with SGD.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 1 0.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC and LDB, respectively, and


﻿11
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of ARC and LDB in accordance with
its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ARC in accordance with its terms.
(c)   That the Uttar Pradesh Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of Uttar Pradesh and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of Uttar Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date October 3 1, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. On termination of the Project Agreement in accordance with
its terms, the obligations of the Borrower with respect to the Project shall forthwith
terminate.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or the
Director/Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Miuistry
of Finance of the Borrower, aicting singly, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ E. Gonsalves
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿*                                             13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the category of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to such category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in such category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                % of
(Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
Loans for minor                38,000,000               62% of local
irrigation                                              expenditures
TOTAL         38,000,000
0
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement-
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such
taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit
will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the percentage set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of local expenditures shall increase, the


﻿14
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of a lending program for agricultural development
in Uttar Pradesh, consists of a three-year program to finance loans for minor
irrigation, by means of: (1) installation of pumpsets and Persian wheels on existing
dugwells and tubewells; (2) construction or improvement of dugwells and tubewells;
and (3) installation of pumpsets and Persian wheels on dugwells and tubewells
for Beneficiaries through LDB and Participating Banks, the said loans being
refinanced in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Project
Agreement.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Relending Agreements
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which the
proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof shall be lent to ARC by the
Borrower:
Lending Terms to ARC from the Borrower:
(a)  In respect of ARC refinancing not exceeding 9 years:
(i)        interest rate of not less than 5-1/2% per annum less 1/4% for
prompt payment;
(ii)       repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b)   In respect of ARC refinancing in excess of 9 but not exceeding 15
years:
(i)        interest rate of not less than 6% per annum less 1/4% for prompt
payment;
(ii)       repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c)   The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk.


