Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
October 15, 2002 
 
Hon. Roberto Lavagna 
Minister of Economy 
Ministry of Economy 
Hipólito Irigoyen 250 
1310 Buenos Aires, Argentina 
 
Re:  
ARGENTINA
 –
Special Structural Adjustment Loan  
 
(Loan No. 4405-AR) 
 
Second Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Minister Lavagna: 
 
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated November 11, 1998 (Loan No. 4405-AR) 
entered into between the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), as amended on October 15, 1999.  
 
Please note that the terms used in this Amendment Letter have the same meaning as those 
defined in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement. 
 
In view of (i) the payment by the  Bank of $250,000,000 under the Guarantee of  the 
Borrower’s Series D of the Zero-Coupon Notes due on October 15, 2002; (ii) the fact that 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) (i) of the Loan Agreement, the Borrower is obligated to reimburse the 
Bank for the amount paid under the Guarantee on demand or as the Bank may otherwise direct; 
and (iii) the fact that the Borrower has in its letter to the Bank dated October 11, 2002 requested 
that the Bank, in view of the Borrower’s current economic and financial crises, extend terms to 
the Borrower for the amount paid by the Bank under the Guarantee, the parties hereby agree to 
amend the Loan Agreement as follows: 
 
I. 
Loan Agreement
:
1. 
A new Section 5.05 is added, after Section 5.04, to read as follows in its entirety: 
 
“
(a) Pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01 (a) (i) of this Agreement in 
respect of the Bank’s right to establish the Borrower’s repayment terms of any amount paid by 
the Bank under the Guarantee, the Borrower shall repay to the Bank the amount that the Borrower 
is obligated to reimburse the Bank under Section 5.01 (a)(i) of this Agreement with respect to the 
amount paid by the Bank on October 15, 2002 under its Guarantee (the “Reimbursement 
Amount”) in accordance with the terms set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  The Borrower 
confirms its intention to pay the Reimbursement Amount within 60 days of the date hereof if the 
Page  2
Borrower determines that it has sufficient financial resources to do so, taking into account its 
other obligations.  
 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.01(a)(i) of this Agreement in 
respect of the interest payable on the principal of the Loan, the Borrower shall pay interest on the 
Reimbursement Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate for each Reimbursement Interest 
Period equal to the LIBOR Base Rate plus four (4) percentage points. 
 
(c) For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Reimbursement Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including October 15, 2002 to, but excluding, the first 
Reimbursement Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the initial period, each period from and including a Reimbursement 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Reimbursement Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Reimbursement Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 5.05 (f) of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Reimbursement Interest Period, 
the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such Reimbursement Interest Period, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum. 
 
(d)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate for each 
Reimbursement Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(e)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination 
of the interest rates referred to in  Section 5.05 (b), the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Reimbursement Amount other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may 
modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Reimbursement Amount upon 
not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Reimbursement Amount. 
 
(f)  Interest on the Reimbursement Amount shall be payable on April 15 and 
October 15 in each year, commencing on April 15, 2003.”  
 
II. 
Effectiveness
:
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating this 
letter in the spaces provided below. This Amendment Letter will be executed in two counterparts,  
Page  3
each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed 
original to us.  The provisions of this Amendment Letter will become effective as of the date first 
above written.  
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
 
By /s/David de Ferranti 
Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED AND CONFIRMED: 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By: 
/s/ Roberto Lavagna 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Date: 
November 4, 2002
 
Page  4
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due
Payment Amount Due 
 
(Expressed in Dollars)
On each April 15 and October 15 
beginning October 15, 2005 through 
April 
15, 
2007 
     62,500,000 
Page  5
WB76939 
M:\ARGENTIN\Amendments\4405-AR (2nd Amend).doc 
December 10, 2002 10:52 AM
 
