Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4405-AR
Loan Agreement
(Special Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 11, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4405-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 11, 1998, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank):
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 2, 1998 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
reforms in the Borrower’s fiscal, financial, human development and regulatory sectors 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance by making the Loan to the Borrower 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
" ‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";
(c)
The first sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions.";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and 
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BHN" means Banco Hipotecario Nacional, the Borrower’s housing bank; 
(b)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Obras Sociales" means the national health insurance system governed by 
the Borrower's Law 23660;
(d)
"Second Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the 
Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Sections 2.02 (d) (i) and 2.02 (d) (ii) of this Agreement have been met; 
(e)
"SHS" means the Borrower’s superintendency of health system;
(f)
"SSN" means Superintendencia de Seguros de la Nación, the Borrower’s 
superintendency of insurance; and
(g)
"Third Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the 
Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Sections 2.02 (e) (i) and 2.02 (e) (ii) of this Agreement have been met.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
billion five hundred twenty five million two hundred fifty thousand Dollars 
($2,525,250,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its 
central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Deposit Account.  The Borrower shall not allow any other amounts from any source to be 
deposited in the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
Page  3
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $1,025,250,000 unless:
(i)
the date February 28, 1999 has passed; and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: (A) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with 
the objectives of the Program; and (C) that the actions described 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said exchange of 
views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been 
fulfilled and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions 
continue to be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $2,025,250,000 unless:
(i)
the date June 30, 1999 has passed; and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: (A) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with 
the objectives of the Program; and (C) that the actions described 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said exchange of 
views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been 
fulfilled and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions 
continue to be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1.0%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus four (4) percentage points.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Page  4
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate for each 
Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, as well as every three months from 
the Effective Date to the Third Tranche Release Date, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank for the Bank’s review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
Page  5
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program; and
(b)
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program.
Section 5.02. The date of February 11, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  6
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112              -
Alcoholic beverages
121              -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122              -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525              -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718      
 718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728           728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897           897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971              -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
Page  7
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)* 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2002
through April 15, 2003
631,315,000
on October 15, 2003
631,305,000
_________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
Fiscal Sector Actions
1.
Preparation by the Borrower of one or more proposals regarding taxes, based on 
the following principles:
(a)
the proceeds from the collection in the Borrower’s provinces of all of 
the Borrower’s major federal taxes (including income, value-added, labor and fuel 
taxes) should enter into a single pool for purposes of revenue sharing from the 
Borrower to said provinces and at least 70% of the automatic revenue transfers from 
that single pool to said provinces (i.e., transfers which do not need to pass through 
the Borrower’s budget) should be made according to a single formula for distribution 
among provinces, which formula should include: (i) a component that provides for 
devolution to each province of a portion of pooled tax proceeds in an amount 
proportional to the amounts that tax bases in that province contributed to the pool; 
Page  8
and (ii) a component that provides for distribution to provinces of a second portion 
of pooled tax proceeds in such a manner that provinces with smaller tax bases receive 
larger transfers per capita than do provinces with greater tax bases;
(b)
the gross receipts tax currently collected by said provinces should be 
eliminated and replaced with a provincial consumption or income tax, which tax would:  
(i) be imposed on a defined tax base and collected on the basis of clear 
administrative guidelines; (ii) be collected from persons or entities considered to be 
residents of the collecting province (independently of whether or not the taxed 
revenues or production originate in the collecting province); (iii) be collected based 
on rates established by the collecting province; (iv) not have a cascading effect 
(i.e., not have an incidence that would be cumulative across stages of production); 
(v) have lower administrative costs than the combined gross receipts and value-added 
taxes; and (vi) induce automatic compliance by creating an opposition of interests 
between vendor and purchaser with regard to reporting of sales; and
(c)
said provinces should be able to, for their own use, either collect 
currently applicable federal taxes in substitution for federal collection thereof or 
collect a surcharge on currently applicable federal taxes, which provincially 
collected tax or surcharge would:  (i) be collected from persons or entities 
considered to be residents of the collecting province (independently of whether or not 
the taxed revenues or production originate in the collecting province); and (ii) be 
collected based on rates established by the collecting province.
Financial Sector Actions
2.
Completion of a study by the Borrower on differential tax treatment of financial 
instruments in Argentina.
3.
(a) Establishment by the Borrower, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, of a permanent inter-agency committee of the Borrower’s financial sector 
regulatory agencies for the purposes of reviewing and reporting on the consistency of 
current practices of such agencies; and (b) completion of a report on current 
financial sector regulatory practices. 
4.
Bringing of BHN to the point of sale by formal solicitation by the Borrower of 
bids from the private sector for at least a controlling share in the ownership of BHN, 
if an initial public offer of a Latin America company has occurred in the 
international capital market between the date of this Agreement and the Second Tranche 
Release Date.
5.
Completion of a report based on the review by the Borrower and its central bank 
of the criteria for supervision of public and private banks, including homogeneity of 
application of such criteria.
6.
Formation by the Borrower of an interagency committee, which shall include 
representatives of the Borrower’s Central Bank, Superintendencia de Entidades 
Financieras y Cambiarias (SEFC), Seguro de Depósitos, S.A. (SEDESA), representatives 
from the Argentine private banking sector and at least two international experts, to:  
(a) review the Argentine bank failure resolution process and recommend improvements 
thereto (including recommendations for improving relations between the Central Bank, 
SEFC and SEDESA); and (b) review Argentine regulatory guidelines for proper bank 
governance affecting owners, managers and outside directors, and recommend 
improvements thereto.
7.
Establishment by the Borrower of provisions allowing federal public sector banks 
to sell loan portfolios they received from other, previously liquidated federal public 
sector banks.
8.
Presentation for approval to the Borrower’s legislature of a draft law (prepared 
by the Borrower’s Subsecretaría de Bancos y Seguros) which would remove legal barriers 
that discourage the growth of lease financing in Argentina.
9.
Presentation for approval to the Borrower’s legislature of a draft law (prepared 
by the Borrower’s Subsecretaria de Bancos y Seguros) governing secured transactions in 
Argentina, which law would establish a framework for the use of movable goods as 
security under credit operations.
10.
Presentation for approval to the Borrower’s legislature of a draft law which 
would remove restrictions on international diversification of mutual fund holdings 
(thus allowing mutual funds traded in Argentina to contain holdings from countries 
other than Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay).
Page  9
11.
Contracting by the Borrower of a study to review Argentine laws and regulations 
governing compulsory ratings of securities and the companies that carry out such 
ratings, as well as to make recommendations to improve quality and competitiveness in 
the Argentine ratings industry. 
12.
Adoption by SSN of an action plan for enforcement of insurance company minimum 
capital requirements set forth in SSN Resolution no. 25804.
Human Development Sector Actions
13.
Placement of all nutrition programs under the Borrower’s Secretaría de 
Desarrollo Social de la Presidencia de la Nación within the administrative purview of 
a single management unit therein.
14.
Review by the Borrower of the criteria for award by the Borrower of pensions for 
which beneficiaries have made no contributions (including pensiones graciables).
15.
The Borrower’s budget for 1999 for the social programs listed in the Annex to 
this Schedule is being maintained at an aggregate level equivalent to at least $ 
680,000,000.
16.
Completion by the Borrower of a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, to be carried out with the assistance of an international consulting firm, 
on options for creating a fully capitalized unemployment insurance scheme for 
Argentine workers, which scheme would eliminate severance payments, reduce labor 
costs, and could be based on the use of individual worker accounts.
17.
(a) Formulation by the Borrower of a policy and strategic plan for improving 
public higher education financing; and (b) passage of a resolution by the Borrower 
requiring that the release of discretional funds allocated in the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Culture and Education budget for 1999 for financial support to a public university 
be dependent on:  (i) introduction by the university of cost recovery for its 
undergraduate and post-graduate education programs; (ii) provision by the university 
of scholarships based on merit to its students who cannot afford university fees; and 
(iii) presentation by the university of a consolidated budget to include all its 
sources of revenues.
18.
Carrying out of scholastic aptitude testing of all fifth year secondary 
education students of public schools in 1998.
19.
(a) Implementation by SHS of prudential and consumer protection norms related to 
beneficiaries’ services, and regulation of medical programs, marketing, and sanctions 
and penalties; (b) publication of a report by SHS on the basic characteristics and 
performance of Obras Sociales; and (c) SHS has conducted consumer satisfaction polls 
on the health insurance services funded by Obras Sociales.
20.
The Borrower’s institute of social services for retired persons (Instituto 
Nacional de Servicios Sociales para Jubilados y Pensionados) has engaged consultants 
with expertise in public procurement to undertake technical and financial evaluation 
of bids for the outsourcing of services to major health providers.
Regulatory Sector Actions
21.
Issuance by the Procurador del Tesoro de la Nación of an opinion on the 
possibility of the adoption by the Borrower of a legal instrument which would provide 
that the Borrower’s executive branch will no longer hear appeals of decisions of any 
of the Borrower’s regulatory agencies, if such appeals relate to technical and 
analytical decisions of a regulatory agency (as opposed to appeals relating to 
strictly generic matters relating to claims of denial of due process, of arbitrariness 
or of ultra vires acts by the regulatory agency).
22.
Determination by the Borrower of the general structure and responsibilities of a 
freight transport services federal regulatory agency (or agencies) to be created for 
purposes of regulating transport services, with particular attention to the regulation 
of freight transport services in a manner that enhances inter-modal freight transport 
operations.
ANNEX
Social Programs
Page  10
Food and Nutrition:
(a)
Programa Alimentario Nacional Infantil -- PRANI)
(b)
Apoyo Solidario a los Mayores -- ASOMA
(c)
Materno Infantil
(d)
Proyecto de Salud y Nutrición Materno Infantil
(e)
Programa de Huertas - PROHUERTA
Disease Control:
(f)
Control de Enfermedades Crónicas
(g)
Vigilancia y Control del Cólera
(h)
Programa Ampliado de Inmunización
(i)
Programa de Control de Enfermedades Chagas
(j)
Proyecto de Control del SIDA y Enfermedades de Transmisión Sexual 
--LUSIDA
(k)
Emergencias Sanitarias
Emergency Employment:
(l)
TRABAJAR II
Education:
(m)
Plan Social Educativo -- PSE
(n)
Programa Nacional de Becas Estudiantiles
(o)
Programa de Reformas e Inversiónes en Educación -- PRISE
(p)
Proyecto de Descentralización y Mejoramiento de la Educación Polimodal 
II
Social Fund:
(q)
Fondo Participativo de Inversión Nacional -- FOPAR
Programs for Vulnerable Groups:
(r)
Programa del Consejo del Menor y la Familia
(s)
Programa de Atención a Menores en Circunstancias Difíciles; Programa de 
Atención a Niños y Jóvenes en Riesgo Social
(t)
Programa de Atención a Grupos Vulnerables
(u)
Pragrama de Apoyo de Jóvenes
(v)
Programa Social Agropecuario -- PSA - PROINDER
(w)
Instituto Nacional de Asuntos Indígenas -- INAI
(x)
Mejoramiento de Barrios
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
Fiscal Sector Actions
1.
Formal presentation to all governors of the Borrower’s provinces of the proposal 
or proposals, as the case may be, referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Page  11
2.
Presentation by the Borrower of evidence demonstrating that an on-going dialogue 
on the adoption of the proposal or proposals referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement is being undertaken between the Borrower and its provinces.
3.
Improvement of the Borrower’s data bases to allow accurate distribution 
according to the formula component referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Financial Sector Actions
4.
Presentation for approval to the Borrower’s legislature of a draft tax reform 
law, which law would result in approximate tax neutrality in the treatment of 
financial instruments in Argentina.
5.
Presentation for approval to the Borrower’s legislature of a draft law which 
would provide protection from personal liability, to public sector officials entrusted 
with the exercise of financial sector supervisory or regulatory functions, for 
good-faith actions taken in performance of said functions.
6.
The committee referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement is 
fully operational in accordance with its terms of reference, and is implementing the 
recommendations of the report on the consistency of regulatory practices.
7.
Issuance by the Borrower of a public document detailing all the explicit or 
implicit guarantees the Borrower maintains in support of the Borrower’s Banco de la 
Nación Argentina (BNA).
8.
Issuance by the Borrower of a plan of action to implement the recommendations of 
the report referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
9.
Preparation by the Borrower of an action plan to carry out reforms of the 
Argentine bank failure resolution process, as well as to reform Argentine regulatory 
guidelines for proper bank governance, taking into account the recommendations of the 
interagency committee referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
10.
Presentation by the Borrower of a plan to reform the ratings industry, taking 
into consideration the study referred to in paragraph 11 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, and satisfactory progress in the implementation of such plan, including, if 
necessary, passage of resolutions by SSN, Superintendencia de Administradoras de 
Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones, Comisión Nacional de Valores and the Borrower’s 
Central Bank.
11.
Presentation for approval to the Borrower’s legislature of a draft law that 
improves the legal framework for insurance by, inter alia:  (a) requiring solvency 
monitoring of insurance companies; (b) mandating that any life insurance business be 
carried out by an insurance company as a business separate from any other insurance 
business the company might carry out; (c) requiring that SSN adopt an early warning 
detection system in its core supervision activities and perform early warning tests 
under such system to determine vulnerabilities of the insurance companies it regulates 
and empowering SSN to take remedial actions if such vulnerabilities are discovered; 
(d) strengthening the process for resolving insurance companies; and (e) establishing 
mechanisms to ensure proper protection of insurance services consumers.
12.
Presentation by the Borrower of evidence demonstrating satisfactory enforcement 
by SSN of the minimum capital requirements referred to in paragraph 12 of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
13.
Bringing BHN to the point of sale by formal solicitation by the Borrower of bids 
from the private sector for at least a controlling share in the ownership of BHN (but 
only if:  (a) BHN was not brought to the point of sale pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement because no initial public offer of a Latin America 
company has been made in the international capital market; and (b) an initial public 
offer of a Latin America company has been made in the international capital market 
between the Second Tranche Release Date and the Third Tranche Release Date).
Human Development Sector Actions
14.
Establishment by the Borrower of an improved methodology for calculating the 
Borrower’s necesidades básicas insatisfechas regional poverty index, as well as 
determination by the Borrower of a national poverty line based on the application of 
Page  12
said methodology.
15.
Application by the Borrower of the Borrower’s Sistema Único de Identificación y 
Registro de Familias de Beneficiarios de Programas Sociales personal poverty 
measurement methodology to six social programs (for which such methodology has not 
been previously used) administered by the Borrower’s Secretaría de Desarrollo Social 
de la Presidencia de la Nación, for purposes of improving the poverty targeting of 
such programs.
16.
Consolidation of all Borrower nutrition programs (such as, inter alia, Programa 
Alimentario Nacional Infantil and Apoyo Solidario a los Mayores) into an integrated 
Borrower nutrition program, targeting its services based on beneficiary income level 
and health or nutrition indicators.
17.
Preparation by the Borrower of new criteria for eligibility for pensions 
referred to in paragraph 14 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, aimed at ensuring that 
such pensions are targeted solely to beneficiaries deemed to be impoverished.
18.
The Borrower’s budget for 1999 for the social programs listed in the Annex to 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement is being maintained at an aggregate level equivalent to 
at least $ 680,000,000.
19.
Presentation for approval to the Borrower’s legislature of a draft law which 
would create a fully capitalized unemployment insurance scheme for Argentine workers, 
which scheme would eliminate severance payments, reduce labor costs, and could be 
based on the use of individual worker accounts (or establishment of such a scheme 
through other legal methods that do not require legislative approval).
20.
Carrying out of scholastic aptitude testing of all third year polimodal students 
of public schools in 1998 and 1999, and incorporation of their respective grades from 
said testing in their official secondary school record in the second semester of 1999.
21.
(a) Satisfactory implementation by SHS of the prudential and consumer protection 
norms referred to in paragraph 19 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (b) issuance by 
SHS of norms for crisis resolution, such as liquidations and mergers, related to Obras 
Sociales; and (c) publication by SHS of the consumer satisfaction polls referred to in 
paragraph 19 (c) of schedule 3 to this Agreement.
22.
Contracts with the health providers referred to in paragraph 20 of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement have been signed.
Regulatory Sector Actions
23.
Presentation for approval to the Borrower’s legislature of a draft law which 
would harmonize the standards governing regulatory performance of the Borrower’s 
infrastructure sector federal regulatory agencies, for purposes of enhancing, inter 
alia:  (a) consistency of administrative procedures applicable to such agencies with 
regard to approval of tariffs, sanctions and fines, collection and use of fees owed to 
such agencies, as well as treatment of non-payment of such fees by regulated parties; 
(b) consistency of economic and technical standards for the analysis and review of 
tariff, use of benchmarks, cost of capital, valuation of investments, quality of 
regulated service and terms of access issues; (c)  facilitation, through consistent 
processes, of non-binding consultation with provinces and consumer groups regarding 
regulatory decisions; (d) consistency of processes for appealing decisions of 
regulators; (e) prompt publication of annual audited financial accounts of said 
agencies; (f) routine public disclosure of information (including information on which 
regulatory decisions are made) through consistent disclosure processes; and (g) 
consistency of processes for hearing and resolving consumer complaints.
24.
Preparation by the Borrower of a time-bound action plan, consistent with the 
harmonization referred to in paragraph 24 above and to the extent allowable by law, to 
increase the autonomy and independence of the Borrower’s infrastructure sector federal 
regulatory agencies by, inter alia:  (a) establishing harmonized rules for selection 
and term of tenure of regulators, protection of such tenure and processes for removing 
regulators for cause; and (b) defining said agencies’ financing sources and budgeting 
procedures and establishing harmonized measures to thus ensure their financial 
independence.
25.
Subject to the conclusion of the opinion of the Procurador del Tesoro de la 
Nación referred to in paragraph 21 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, presentation for 
approval of the Borrower’s legislature of a draft law or issuance of a presidential 
Page  13
decree, as the case may be, which would provide that the Borrower’s executive branch 
will no longer hear appeals of decisions of any of the Borrower’s regulatory agencies, 
if such appeals relate to technical and analytical decisions of a regulatory agency 
(as opposed to appeals relating to strictly generic matters relating to claims of 
denial of due process, of arbitrariness or of ultra vires acts by the regulatory 
agency). 
26.
Preparation by the Borrower of the design and an action plan to create one or 
more federal regulatory agencies to regulate transport services, with particular 
attention to the regulation of freight transport services in a manner that enhances 
inter-modal freight transport operations. 
