Page  1
 
1
THE INSPECTION PANEL 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
1818 H Street, N.W.
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5200 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA
 
Fax : (202) 522-0916 
 
 
 
IPN 
REQUEST 
RQ99/4 
       
August 
12, 1999 
 
 
 
NOTICE OF REGISTRATION 
 
Dear Sirs: 
 
Re: Request for Inspection
 
– Argentina: Special Structural Adjustment 
Loan (Loan 4405-AR) 
 
 
On July 26, 1999, the Inspection Panel (“the Panel”) received a Request for Inspection in 
Spanish dated July 20, 1999 related to the above referenced loan (“the Loan”) and on August 9, 
1999 an acceptable translation thereof.  Also, at the request of the Chairman of the Panel, the 
Requesters submitted some clarifications to the statements made in the original request on 
August 11, 1999 (both the original request and clarifications hereinafter referred to as “the 
Request”). 
 
The Request was submitted by a group of attorneys of the Centro de Estudios Legales y Sociales 
– CELS (the Center for Legal and Social Studies), an Argentine non-governmental organization 
representing about 418 beneficiaries of the Pro-Huerta program (“the Requesters”). CELS submitted 
powers of attorney to the Panel authorizing it to act on behalf of the Requesters.  The Requesters have 
asked that their names remain confidential. 
 
              The Requesters claim that Management, in violation of the terms and conditions under 
which the Board of Executive Directors approved the Loan, intends to release its last tranche, 
despite the fact that the Borrower has not complied with some of the disbursement conditions 
applicable to the tranche in question.  According to the Requesters, the disbursement conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement require the Borrower to maintain adequate levels of funding for 
a number of specific social programs, but current budgetary allocations made by the Borrower, 
and accepted by Management, will result in the effective termination of, 
inter alia
, the Pro-
Huerta program.  This program is providing food and nutrition assistance to the absolute poor.  
According to the Requesters, “despite having reached 2,744,000 beneficiaries, Pro-Huerta was 
still far from its estimated demand of 6,247,000”, adding that Pro-Huerta was specifically 
included in the Annex of Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement as one of the programs that must be 
protected under the social and economic program supported by the Loan (“the Program”) as a 
condition of disbursement. The Requesters also claim that Management has not made available 
Page  2
 
2
to them relevant information on the execution of the Program.
 
Finally, the Requesters state that, 
“given the nature (food/nutrition) of the program which is the subject of this request, we ask the 
Panel to treat this as an 
urgent matter 
and that it urge the Bank to withhold, on a preventive 
basis, disbursement of the third tranche of the Loan.” 
 
 
 
The Requesters claim that the potential alleged harm is a result of failures and omissions in the 
monitoring and supervision of the Program by Bank staff in violation of the following Bank policies and 
procedures: 
  
 
OD 4.15 on Poverty Alleviation 
 
OD 13.05 on Project Supervision 
 
OP/BP 10.70 on Project Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
OP/BP 13.40 on Suspension of Disbursements 
 
BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information 
 
 
 
I am notifying you that I have on August 12, 1999, which is also the date of the dispatch of this 
notice, registered this Request in the Inspection Panel Register. Due to the fact that the Panel's 
"registration" process is often misunderstood, I would like to emphasize that "registration" is an 
administrative procedure established by the Panel and that it implies no judgment whatsoever concerning 
the eligibility of the request. 
 
In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution and paragraphs 2 and 8 of the "
Conclusions of 
the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel
", Bank Management has been notified that it must 
provide the Panel, no later than September 13, 1999, with written evidence that it has complied, or intends 
to comply with the Bank ’s relevant policies and procedures in relation to the above-referenced loan.  The 
subject matter the Management must deal with in a response to the Request is set out in paragraph 3 and 
4 of the "
Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel
." 
 
After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as provided by paragraph 19 of the 
Resolution, “determine whether the Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 and 
shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be investigated."
 
 
 
The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ99/4. 
 
 Yours 
sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
     Jim MacNeill 
 Chairman 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Page  3
 
3
 
 
 
  
 
TO: 
Mr. Víctor E. Abramovich 
 
Mr. Martin Abregú 
 
Centro de Estudios Legales y Sociales 
 Rodriguez 
Pe
ñ
a 286 
             1º piso 
             1020 Buenos Aires, Rep
Ú
blica Argentina 
 
 
 cc:        Mr. James D. Wolfensohn 
 
 
 
 
 President 
 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 Room 
MC12-750 
      
  
 
 
The Executive Directors and Alternates 
              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
 
