Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11639
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1786-HA)
FEBRUARY 8, 1993
Country Operations Division II
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Gourdes (G)
Appraisal (1987) - Gourde (G)5.00 = US$1.00
PCR (1992) - Gourde (G)10.00 = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CPNAP     -    Commissariat a la Promotion Nationale et
A la Administration Publique (Planning Agency)
DCA       -    Development Credit Agreement
FDI       -    Fonds de Developpement Industriel
(Industrial Development Fund)
IMF       -    International Monetary Fund
MEF       -    Ministry of Economy and Finance
SDR       -    Special Drawing Rights
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditure
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 8, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:          Project Completion Report on Haiti
Technical Assistance Proiect (Credit 1786-HA)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Haiti - Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1786-HA)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office,
with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
Most project components were delayed due to political unrest. Even so, the main objectives-to
support public sector management reform and to finance studies on the environment and industrial
restructuring and development--were achieved.  The major exception was the public expenditure
component, where the senior project manager was belatedly hired and quickly fired. The studies provided
the basis for two subsequent Bank-financed projects. Overall project performance is rated as satisfactory.
The PCR provides a good and candid discussion of project performance. Its assessment of the
project sustainability, however, does not justify, based on its arguments, the ranking of "satisfactory".
"Uncertain" is a more realistic evaluation because: (a) many of the findings of the studies under the public
sector management component were not acted upon by subsequent administrations; (b) signing of the
Forestry and Environmental Project has been delayed due to the suspension of IDA assistance to the
country; and (c) a large portion of the Industrial Development Project is still unutilized because of
inadequate demand.
It is remarkable that in spite of the acute political unrest in the country, many of the project
components, at least in terms of their completion, have been realized. As with the Economic Recovery
Program, this is a tribute to the government machinery in the country.
OED audited the Economic Recovery Program in 1991. No audit of this Technical Assistance
Project is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1786-HA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  i
Evaluation Summary  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
2.  Project Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
3.  Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
4.  Project Design and Organization  ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
5.  Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
6.    Project  Results    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
7.  Project Sustainability   ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
8.  IDA's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
9.  Borrower's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
10.  Project Relationships  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
11.  Consulting Service   ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
12.  Project Documentation and Data   ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation
of the Project and its Development Impact   . . . . . . . . .    11
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table  1.  Related IDA Credits  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .   .    15
Table  2.  Project Timetable  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .   .    16
Table  3.  IDA Credit Disbursements ... .      .  .  .  .  .    .......    .    17
Table  4.  Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Components  . . . .    18
Table  5A. Allocation of Proceeds            ..                 .19
Table 5B. Project Financing              .. .20
Table  6A. Project Results              . ..21
Table 6D. Studies                  ...23
Table  7.  Status of Legal Covenants          ..                .25
Table  8A. Use of IDA Resources            ..                 .27
Table 8B. Missions                 ...28
ANNEXES
I.   Linkages with Government Reform Program and
Economic Recovery Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
II. Changes in Government .30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1786-HA)
PREFACE
1.          This  is the Project Completion Report  (PCR)  for the Technical
Assistance Project, for which IDA Credit 1786-HA in the amount of SDR 2.4 million
(US$3.0 million) was approved on April 28, 1987.   The credit was closed on
February 28, 1991, almost two years behind schedule and final disbursement from
the credit was made on November 21, 1991. An amount of SDR 2.24 million has been
disbursed and SDR 0.16 million will be canceled as soon as the current suspension
of our operations in Haiti is lifted.
2.          The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Farts I
and III), and the Borrower (Part II and some statistical information included in
Part III).
3.          Preparation of this PCR was expected to have been started during the
Bank's PCR mission in late September/early October 1991; however, the mission was
canceled because of the political situation. This PCR is thus based, inter alia,
on the President's Report (there was no Staff Appraisal Report), the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the
Borrower, interviews with relevant project staff, and internal IDA memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1786-HA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Objectives
1.        The project represented IDA's support for Haiti's Economic Recovery
Program instituted in 1986 by the transition military-civilian government (paras
2.01-2.03) and included studies leading to the design of specific measures in
support of the Program (para 3.01).   It consisted of: (i) a Public Sector
Management component to assist programming, control and monitoring of public
expenditures; (ii) Environmental Studies to assess the degradation of Haiti's
natural environment; (iii) Industrial Restructuring and Development to support
the restructuring and development needs of private industry to facilitate
adaptation to trade reforms; and (iv) other Studies and Technical Assistance to
provide support in related areas of economic management (para 3.02). The design
of the project was well conceived because of its clear and direct linkage to the
Economic Reform Program of the Government (4.01).
Implementation Experience
2.        The DCA became effective on July 7, 1987, well within the deadline of
August 18, 1987, and closed on February 28, 1991, after two extensions (5.01).
Disbursements picked up considerably after a slow start, with over 90% of the
Credit spent by the end of FY89.  Apart from the Macroeconomic Advisor, the
hiring of consultants and advisors under the public sector management component
was somewhat difficult due to intermittent political instability. Similarly, the
completion of the environmental studies was delayed by over a year.   The
Industrial Restructuring and Development component was delayed by several months,
also because of political instability and the resulting deteriorating investment
climate (5.02).   The Government action taken that most facilitated project
implementation was the appointment of a project manager who stayed with the
project throughout its implementation (5.04).
Project Results
3.        The main project objectives were fully met.  The macroeconomic advisor
successfully provided macroeconomic management advice to successive Ministers of
Finance, most of whom had limited training in economics. Other advisors engaged
under the Public Sector Management component were not as successful. The senior
visiting advisor made only one of three scheduled visits to Haiti because of
political instability, and the senior project economist could not serve his full
term because of contract problems.   The studies undertaken under the Public



- iv -
Sector Management component were successfully completed; however, no specific
actions were taken to utilize their findings (6.01-6.02).
4.        The Environmental Studies component was successfully completed and
served as a major input in the preparation of the Forestry and Environmental
Protection project approved by the Board in September 1991 (6.01).
5.        The Industrial Restructuring and Development component served as the
basis for the Industrial Restructuring and Development Project that was approved
by the Board in December 1989.   There were 63 industrial enterprises that
participated in the diagnostic phase and 25 participated in the in-depth studies
phase.  Some of these enterprises were further assisted under the Industrial
Restructuring and Development Project (6.01).
6.        It took considerable time to develop the components for the Other
Studies and Technical Assistance Component which was eventually utilized to
support the maintenance of the computer system (VAX Cluster Network) of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (6.02).
Project Sustainability
7.        The overall sustainability of the project is satisfactory.   it has
provided the basis for two IDA supported projects in Haiti -- the Forestry and
Environmental Protection Project and the Industrial Restructuring and Development
Project, resulting in the transfer by IDA of US$37.5 million equivalent to Haiti.
However political instability might adversely affect these two projects (7.01).
The computer maintenance skills supported under the project is likely to be
sustainable over the medium and long-term. The sustainability of the studies
undertaken under the Public Sector Management component is doubtful since efforts
to operationalize their findings were unsuccessful (7.02).
Lessons Learned
8.        The following are the principal lessons from the project:
(a) The importance of Government commitment in ensuring the smooth
implementation of a "software" type project was clearly demonstrated
under this project.  This was particularly evident with respect to
project studies undertaken under the Public Sector Management
component of the project. The lack of Government commitment was due
to political instability that resulted in high staff turnover at the
policy-making  levels.   The subsequent Governments  succeeding  the
Government with whom the project was prepared, were not interested in
the project items not directly linked to a future lending operation.
(b) Stand-alone Technical Assistance projects should have direct links
with the Bank's other investment activities (or country dialogue).
Despite the high turnover mentioned in (a) above, the interest of
successive Governments in two components of the project was sustained
by their direct links to two projects in IDA's lending program (the
Industrial Restructuring and Development project and the Forestry and
Environmental project). This linkage fostered inter-agency and inter-



- v -
sectoral coordination of implementation (and preparation) activities
of these project components.
(c) No matter how small, every project component should be completed by
the end of project appraisal.   The preparation of a very small
component of the project (Other Studies and Technical Assistance,
costing less than 2Z of total project cost) was not completed at
appraisal.   It eventually took the Bank and succeeding Governments
over 12 months before agreement was reached on items to be financed
under this component.
(d) It is important to design a project taking into account the specific
characteristic of the project and the situation of the borrower. In
the specific case of Haiti, to mitigate weaknesses in project start-
up, a consultant was hired to assist with the hiring of project
consultants.   In addition,  a local accounting firm was hired to
process payments to consultants and to handle related administrative
arrangements.   An inter-ministerial committee was established  to
oversee the preparation of the Environmental studies, which entailed
close  collaboration  among  several  technical  ministries.    These
measures  contributed  significantly  to  the  level  of  project
implementation success that was attained, despite severe political
problems.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1786-HA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
v  Project Name:    Technical Assistance Project
Credit No.:       1786-HA
RVP Unit:         Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department III
Country:          Haiti
Sector:           Multisectoral
Subsectors:       Public Sector Management
Environment
Industry
2. Project Background
2.01      Sector Development Objectives (at the time of project appraisal).  The
Technical Assistance Project was aimed at supporting Haiti's Economic Recovery
Program instituted in 1986 by the transition military-civilian government which
assumed power after the fall of the Duvalierist dictatorship through:   (i)
financing technical assistance in support of strengthening public sector
management; (ii) arresting the persistent environmental degradation in Haiti and;
(iii) facilitating the adaptation of the Haitian private sector to trade reforms
introduced as part of the Economic Recovery Program. The overall objectives of
the Economic Recovery Program (which was supported by a US$40 million IDA Credit-
1766-HA as well as by the IMF and USAID) were to reform public finances and
economic policies and to hand over to a future democratically elected civilian
Government,  a viable,  growing  economy.    The  essence was  to  reduce  the
exploitation of the average Haitian by eliminating high prices set to expropriate
economic rents to benefit former regimes through ending the system of privilege
and monopoly.   It was also expected that the implementation of the policies
supported under the Economic Recovery Program would lead to GDP growth of 4.5%
per year as a result of improved exports and agricultural performance.  This
growth target was to be promoted directly by the removal of impediments to
efficient resource allocation and indirectly by higher capital inflows that the
policies would generate.
2.02      PolicV Context.   The policy measures to achieve the Government's
objectives called for macroeconomic stabilization and the improvement of resource
allocation through reform of taxes, public expen6itures, public enterprises,
competition and industrial incentives, and agricultural pricing and credit. The
stabilization measures were supported by an IMF Structural Adjustment Facility



- 2 -
and an IDA Economic Recovery Credit. Total expenditures and taxes were cut by
about 22 of GDP and expenditures were reallocated, resulting in an increase in
spending for education and health by over 20%. Taxes on basic food items were
reduced and income taxes were simplified, with top marginal rates lowered and
measures to strengthen tax collection initiated. The public investment program
was pruned and directed toward the completion of priority ongoing projects, while
the public sector debt to the domestic banking system was reduced.   Trade
monopolies were dismantled, and two of the five public industrial firms were
closed. Furthermore, a major reform of the trade regime was undertaken, with all
but seven of 111 quantitative restrictions eliminated.   The remaining seven,
representing less than 20% of total imports, became subject to import licensing
without formal ceiling.   In addition, specific tariffs were replaced by ad
valorem ones and the general level of protection was reduced drastically. These
measures began to stabilize the economy during 1986-87, with economic growth
averaging slightly under 1% after experiencing negative growth rates in the
preceding years. Unfortunately, the economic reform was subsequently marred by
the collapse of coffee export volumes and prices and the onset of civil
disturbances in the latter part of 1987.
2.03      Linkages Between Project, Sectors and Macro Policy Objectives.  The
project was designed to support the Government's Economic Recovery Program and
complement IDA's Economic Recovery Credit (Credit 1766-HA). The key elements
of the Public Sector Management component were expected to support specific areas
of the Government's program. For instance, two long-term advisors were included
to reinforce the Government's capacity to implement the program. Several studies
were included to provide the basis for the formulation of policy reforms, leading
to specific measures to address distortions in the economy relating to public
expenditures, public enterprises, and trade regime. The Environmental Studies
component addressed the issue of the declining agricultural productivity brought
on by land degradation as a result of practices that abetted soil erosion. The
adverse economic impact of the deterioration of the natural environment is
illustrated by the fact that deforestation on the hillsides had reduced watershed
protection and had led to siltation of irrigation channels on the plains and less
hydro-electric potential because of reservoir siltation at Haiti's main hydro-
electric facility at Peligre. Thus the approach undertaken under the project was
to integrate environmental and natural resource management directly into economic
and social policy. The industrial restructuring and development component was
aimed at improving the system of industrial incentives as well as at facilitating
the adjustment of the Haitian private sector to the new liberalized trade regime.
The linkage with Macro Policy Objectives was further strengthened by designating
the implementation of several components (reducing the operating cost of Ciment
d'Haiti and La Minoterie, and increasing state land rentals) among the conditions
for the release of the second tranche of the Economic Recovery Credit. Details
of the linkages between the project and the Economic Recovery Program are
provided in Annex I.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.01      Project Objectives.  The principal project objectives were:  (i) to
strengthen the Government's capacity to implement its Economic Recovery Program
including studies that would lead to designs of specific measures in support of
the Program as well as provide assistance in the programming, control and



- 3 -
monitoring of public expenditures; (ii) to develop information about and help
develop a strategy to deal with Haiti's natural environment; and (iii) to assist
on a priority basis, those manufacturing enterprises affected by the reform of
the trade regime to take appropriate measures to raise their productivity,
develop export activities and become internationally competitive.
3.02      Project Components.  There were four main components of the project:
(a) Public Sector Manapement consisted of: (i) a full-time macroeconomic
adviser to assist the Minister of Economy and Finance with
macroeconomic management and the development of a training program for
relevant staff; (ii) the support of a training program and assistance
under the guidance of a visiting senior adviser, and the purchase of
computer equipment for the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and
the National Promotion and Public Service Commission (CPNAP) to
improve programming, monitoring and control of public expenditure.
The senior adviser was expected to provide assistance with development
expenditure budgeting, current treasury expenditure budgeting and
public sector wage bill; (iii) a full-time senior project economic
adviser was expected to help improve development project selection and
monitoring; (iv) expansion of MEF's mini-computer capacity and
provision of micro-computer hardware and software for CPNAP; (v) a
study of public service employment and pay designed to assist the
government reorganize and make the civil service more effective; (vi)
assistance to an MEF unit charged with financial monitoring of public
enterprises; (vii) restructuring of the Ciment d'Haiti with respect
to power requirements and other aspects; (viii) introduction of trade
drawback scheme to complement the reform of the trade regime; (ix)
introduction of a scheme to raise rentals on state lands; (x) a study
of alternatives to sugarcane production in the Plaine du Nord; and
(xi) an international consultant to assist MEF in project start-up and
management and in the selection of consultants.
(b) Environmental Studies. A study designed to assess the extent of land
degradation in Haiti and recommend interventions to arrest and reverse
it, using an approach that integrates environmental natural resource
management directly into economic and social policy.
(c)  Industrial  Restructuring  and  Development.        (i)  Financing  the
additional operating costs of the Industrial Development Fund (FDI)
and providing technical assistance in identifying the restructuring
and development needs of private industrial enterprises; (ii)
diagnosis and preparation by consultants with FDI support, of
restructuring and development plans for enterprises wishing such
assistance. The diagnostic phase was to be provided free of charge
following which consultants were to undertake in-depth analysis of
identified problems and developed restructuring plans for the
enterprise's consideration. The firms for which restructuring plans
were to be prepared were supposed to pay 20% of the cost with 80%
being financed out of a Technical Assistance Fund established by FDI
for thi' purpose.



- 4 -
(d)  Other Studies and Technical Assistance.  During preparation of the
project, the Government expressed interest in receiving assistance in
other related areas of economic management, including special studies
of the financial sector, scope for cotton and textile development and
improvement of economic and social statistics and the national
accounts. Broad outlines for the additional studies were discussed
during negotiations and agreement was reached with the Government to
send specific proposals to IDA by July 1, 1987.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.01      The design of the Technical Assistance project was well conceived, in
large measure because of the clear and direct linkage of the project to the
Economic Reform Program and because the Minister of Economy and Finance was a
former World Bank senior economist, with considerable experience with policy
based lending and technical assistance projects. The need for support of the
implementation of the Government's Economic Reform Program was shared by the
parties concerned. Many aspects of the Government's Economic Reform Program were
being jointly supported by the IMF, IDA (Credit 1766-HA) and USAID (Economic
Support Funds) in a well-coordinated program of assistance, so that the Technical
Assistance Project was targeted at well defined areas, either for direct
institutional reinforcement (such as advisers, and support for financial
monitoring of state enterprises) or to finance studies on which subsequent
policies were to be based (studies on public service employment and pay, etc).
4.02      The need for addressing,  in a comprehensive way,  the increasing
deterioration of Haiti's environment was quite evident, given the declining
agricultural productivity, increasing deforestation and the growing siltation of
the irrigation canals in the plains and of the power reservoir in Peligre. The
phased multisectoral approach of assessment, evaluation and strategy development
was particularly well suited to the Haitian situation because it envisaged the
full utilization of extensive information and data that was already in existence.
The design of the studies also envisaged the development of a comprehensive
strategy, specific policy interventions and likely investments to help address
the issue of environmental degradation in Haiti.  A successful aspect of the
design was the establishment of an inter-ministerial committee to oversee the
preparation of the Environmental Studies, which included representatives from the
Ministries of Economy and Finance (Chairman), Planning, Agriculture, Public
Works, and the Bureau of Mines and Energy.
4.03      The design of the Industrial Restructuring and Development component
was satisfactory.   The fact that the diagnostic studies were free-of-charge
encouraged many (63) industrial enterprises to participate.   Conversely, the
participating enterprises were required to pay 20% of the cost of the In-Depth
studies which encouraged those enterprises electing to remain in the program to
take the exercise seriously. Also the fact that the Industrial Restructuring and
Development Component would culminate in a loan for qualified enterprises
represented an additional incentive for entrepreneurs to actively participate in
the project.
4.04      In sharp contrast to the other project components, the component on
other studies was poorly designed. The sectors and issues to be studied were



rather imprecise. Fortunately, only US$97,000 out of US$3.45 million (about 2%
of total project cost) was allocated to this component.
4.05      The project components, except for the other studies and Technical
Assistance component, were well prepared. The advisers to fill three out of the
four adviser slots were quickly identified and the Terms of Reference (TOR) of
all the studies under the public sector management component were well prepared.
Each had a clear statement of objectives, scope of work, and had specific
indications of inputs, outputs and timing. The TOR for the Environment Studies
was prepared  in two stages.   The initial TOR which was  included  in the
President's Memorandum was revised by an IDA-financed consultant after a multi-
disciplinary review within the Department. Representatives from the SODs, COD
and TD reviewed the initial TOR and oversaw the preparation of the revised TOR
that were subsequently used for inviting proposals.   The preparation of the
Industrial Restructuring and Development component was carried out by consultants
coordinated by FDI; however, the delay in the availability of the promised
financial assistance by IDA, even though due in part to the persistent political
problems in Haiti, was a source of substantial disappointment to many owners of
the enterprises that participated in the studies and undermined both the
Government's and IDA's credibility with the entrepreneurs.
4.06      In retrospect,  except for the relative minor component of other
studies and Technical studies, the overall project design and organization was
excellent because: (i) the project, though a free standing Technical Assistance
project, was directly linked (see Annex I) to a policy based operation with
clearly defined complementarities; (ii) IDA had as the main interlocutor, a
Minister of Finance who was a former Bank senior economist with considerable
experience with policy based lending and technical assistance projects; and (iii)
two out of four of the project's components were directly linked to a future IDA
lending operation, which fostered inter-sectoral cooperation both within the Bank
and within the Government.
5. Project Implementation
5.01      Critical Variances  in Project  Implementation.    The  project was
generally implemented as planned except for delays in the start of many project
items. The most important factor causing these delays was political instability
(see Annex II) that resulted in a rapid rate of turnover of key Government
officials important to the success of the project.  The unfavorable political
situation also caused delays in the completion of tasks once they were started
and caused considerable difficulties in recruiting and retaining the services of
high calibre individual consultants. The Development Credit Agreement became
effective on July 7, 1987. It was originally scheduled to be closed on March 31,
1989 but actually closed on February 28, 1991 after two extensions because of
political instability which delayed project implementation.
5.02      Recruiting the macroeconomic adviser was relatively easy.  (A well-
qualified Canadian (of Haitian origin) was recruited for the position.)  The
visiting Senior Adviser made only one of three scheduled trips because of
political instability and lack of interest of subsequent Ministers of Economy and
Finance.  The position of the senior project economic adviser was left unfilled
for nearly one year because of the initial desire of the Minister of Economy and



- 6 -
Finance to hire a (seconded) Bank staff. The position generated little interest
among Bank staff contacted primarily because of the intermittent political
instability in Haiti. The compromise choice that was subsequently hired, was
engaged hastily and out of frustration of having such a key position go unfilled
for so long. He was fired after less than one year on the job. The delays in
completing the study on Public Service Employment was due to the political
instability and the suspicion of Government officials who were not in their posts
when the project was prepared.   A noted expert on cadastral issues who was
identified to undertake the study on increasing rental on state lands could not
undertake the assignment because of the political problems. The undertaking of
this study was a condition for release of the second tranche of the Economic
Credit and the delays in its preparation resulted in its waiver. The completion
of the environmental studies was also delayed by over a year, again due to
political instability. The Industrial Restructuring and Development component
was delayed by several months, primarily because of the political instability and
the resulting deteriorating investment climate.
5.03      Despite Haiti's turbulent history, no one could have foreseen during
project preparation, the persistent political instability that was to follow the
fall of the Duvalierist dictatorship.   The military-civilian government that
assumed power following the departure of Jean-Claude Duvalier promised that it
would be a transition government. It appointed a technocratic cabinet with an
experienced World Bank senior economist as the Minister of Economy and Finance.
A constitution was drafted, that was overwhelmingly approved by 99Z of the vote
on March 29, 1987 and an electoral process was put in place to select the first
fully  democratically  elected  President  in  Haitian  history.    Under  the
circumstances, it should come as no surprise that political instability was not
even mentioned as a possible risk to the project.   Viewed in this light the
appraisal mission, through no fault of its own, grossly misjudged the project
risks.
5.04      The Government action that was taken that most facilitated project
implementation  and possibly pre-empted  additional project  delays,  was  the
appointment of a project manager who stayed with the project throughout its
implementation.  Initially IDA was not enthusiastic about the appointment of the
project manager because of her relative inexperience, having just obtained her
master's degree only months earlier.   However,  she quickly took charge and
performed so well that she eventually became the informal liaison between World
Bank missions and the Government. Furthermore, her detailed knowledge of Bank
procedures and requirements made her indispensable to subsequent Ministers of
Economy and Finance who came and went frequently.   Her role in the inter-
ministerial committee that oversaw the preparation of the Environmental Studies
was crucial.
6. Project Results
6.01      The main project objectives were fully met (except for the relatively
minor exceptions noted in para 6.2). The macroeconomic adviser was successful
in helping the successive Ministers of Finance, most of whom had only limited
training in economics, with macro economic management and developing a training
program for ministry staff. As a measure of his effectiveness, the Government
requested two extensions of his contract, one of which was granted by IDA; when



- 7 -
the second extension was refused, the Government decided to hire him out of the
Government's own resources.   All the studies were  successfully completed,
although nearly all of them experienced delays. The environmental studies were
successfully completed and served as a major input in the preparation of the
Forestry and Environmental Protection project which was approved by the Board in
September 1991.  (The development Credit Agreement for the project is so far
unsigned because of the suspension of IDA operations in Haiti, in effect since
November 19, 1991).   The Industrial Restructuring and Development component
served as the basis of the Industrial Development and Restructuring Project which
was approved by the Board in December 1989.  There were 63 enterprises which
participated in the diagnostic phase, of which 25 participated in the in-depth
studies phase. Some of the industrial enterprises were further assisted under
the Industrial Restructuring and Development project.
6.02      The project results were less than satisfactory in the following
areas:
(i)    Public Expenditure:   the senior visiting adviser under the public
expenditure component made only one of three trips and the hiring of
senior project economist was delayed, partly because of Government
insistence on a (seconded) World Bank staff member and partly because
of political instability, and the compromise candidate who was
subsequently hired, was fired in less than a year.
(ii)   Studies:  the studies undertaken under the Public Sector Management
component were undertaken under subsequent administrations that were
less committed to them and were less inclined to cooperate with the
consultants  or utilize their findings.   The study on the Trade
Drawback System was linked to an ongoing study to improve custom
administration, but like the other studies, no specific action was
taken on the study's findings and recommendations.
(iii)   Other Studies and Technical Assistance:  it took a considerable amount
of time for the elements of this component to be developed. However,
the Government and IDA decided to utilize the funds earmarked for this
component to finance a maintenance contract for the VAX cluster
network of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, financed earlier by
IDA and to finance the training of several Haitian engineers at
Digital Equipment Corporation's facilities to take over the
maintenance following the expiration of the contract.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01      Given that:  (i) the project has already provided the basis of two
IDA-supported projects in Haiti resulting in the transfer of a total of US$37.5
million equivalent in IDA resources to Haiti; and (ii) the project funds have
been utilized for maintenance of MEF's VAX cluster network as well as financing
the training for maintenance, it is reasonable to assume that a significant
portion of the project's net benefits is likely to be sustainable over the
medium- and long-term. The Industrial Restructuring and Development Component
assisted 25 firms through the undertaking of in-depth reviews of identified
problems and 63 firms participated in the diagnostic studies phase. Furthermore,



- 8 -
even the enterprises that did not follow through with a loan under the industrial
restructuring component were willing to adopt many of the recommendations of the
diagnostic studies.  The main factor that might adversely affect these favorable
outcomes of the project is political instability.   If the ongoing political
problems persist, demand for credit under the Industrial Restructuring and
Development project could be reduced and a large portion of the Credit canceled.
So far, the signing of the Forestry and Environmental Protection project has been
delayed because of the suspension of IDA disbursements in Haiti.
7.02      The sustainability of the project studies undertaken under the Public
Sector Management Component is doubtful.   Since the studies were supposed to
provide the basis for policy measures to address issues (which are still relevant
even today) identified during the preparation of IDA's Economic Recovery Credit,
considerable efforts were made by IDA to operationalize their findings.
Following a supervision mission in July 1990, the Government and IDA agreed on
the Terms of Reference for a consultant to undertake a review of all the project-
financed studies, to determine how their recommendations could be formulated into
action plans for specific policy measures or investment proposals. A consultant
was hired, but never undertook the review, mainly because of the ongoing
political instability.
8. IDA's Performance
8.01      Major Strengths and Weaknesses.  The project was prepared concurrently
with an Economic Recovery Program so that project objectives were clearly defined
at appraisal.   Following appraisal, there was continuity in task management.
Following project approval, several IDA missions visited Haiti to assist the
Government with project start-up. IDA staff contributed to the success of the
project through a supportive working relationship and professional advice. IDA
intervened to address problems that emerged between the Government and
consultants.
8.02      There are two weaknesses in IDA's performance:  first, the Industrial
Incentives Study was supposed to be followed by assistance to implement tariff
reform which was linked to the elimination of biases against export-oriented
activities.   This assistance was not provided because intermittent political
instability effectively pre-empted the work.   Secondly,  the Government had
obtained the support of industrialists to the trade liberalization measures by
promising timely financial assistance from the World Bank for those firms that
would be adversely affected by the trade reforms. However, the expected support
did not  come expeditiously.   The delay  (even though caused  by political
instability) undermined to an extent both the credibility of the Government and
IDA.
8.03      Lessons Learned.  To overcome weakness in project start-up, IDA hired
a consultant to assist the Government to coordinate the hiring of project
consultants. Also, a local accounting firm was hired that processed the payment
of consultants, handled travel and hotel arrangements.   Both actions greatly
facilitated project record keeping and the maintenance of project accounts. The
project was well designed and consultant resources were ample, enabling a smooth
project start-up.  IDA should have followed through with assistance on tariff
measures and the provision of the Credit for the follow-up of Industrial



- 9 -
Restructuring and Development project (IRDP). The failure to provide additional
assistance on the tariff measures and the delay in providing the Credit for the
Industrial  Restructuring  Development  Project  (both  caused  by  political
instability) possibly undermined the Government's and IDA's credibility. Perhaps
the most important lesson learned is to ensure that the preparation of all
project components are completed by the end of project appraisal.  The Other
Studies and Technical Assistance component were not fully defined at appraisal
and dragged on for a considerable period of time (12 months) before agreement was
reached on their content.
Fortunately, the component represented only a very small part (about 2%) of the
total project cost.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.01      Major Strengths and Weaknesses.  Frequent turnover of policy makers
at the Ministry of Economy and Finance slowed the preparation of project-financed
studies. Studies that were particularly affected were those on Public Service
Employment and Pay, State Land Rentals and the studies on the Environment.
However, despite the high turnover, project implementation went generally
smoothly because the project manager stayed at her post throughout the
implementation of the project and the membership in the inter-ministerial
committee  remained  stable  despite  the  Government  turnovers.    The  inter-
ministerial committee to oversee the preparation of the Environmental studies was
highly successful and should serve as a model of inter-agency cooperation in
Haiti. However, the Government was very slow to decide on the contents of the
"Other Studies and Technical Assistance" component.
9.02      Lessons Learned.  The most important lesson learned was the extent to
which Government commitment is necessary to ensuring the smooth implementation
of a "software" type project. The lack of commitment, which had the greatest
impact on the studies undertaken under the Public Sector Management component,
was a direct result of political instability and high staff turnover (except for
the project manager).   Following a change in the Government with which the
project was prepared, project studies experienced delays. In addition, stand-
alone Technical Assistance projects should have direct links to the Bank's other
financing activities to foster the inter-agency and inter-sectoral cooperation
that is necessary for their success.
10. Project Relationships
10.01     The fact that the Minister of Economy and Finance was a former World
Bank senior economist who had worked in the LAC Region, greatly facilitated the
preparation and start-up of the project, which was further helped by the fact
that the Minister hired young and highly motivated MA and Ph.D holders to manage
many project items. A major factor in the very good Bank-Borrower performance
was the fact that there was no change in neither the project manager nor the task
manager during the entire project implementation period.
11. Consulting Services
11.01     Consultants were used for nearly all aspects of the project and by-
and-large performed their services satisfactorily.   A few disagreements with



- 10 -
changes in contract terms arose and were satisfactorily resolved. The signing
of the maintenance contract was initially delayed because of failure by the
Government of Haiti to clear an outstanding arrear to Digital Equipment
Corporation.   The arrear problem was compounded by political instability and
frequent turnover of staff at the relevant decision making levels and the
reluctance on the part of Digital Equipment Corporation to enter into a contract
with an unstable Government.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01     The legal documents and the President's Report provided a useful
framework for the Borrower during project implementation. The Terms of Reference
for the various project studies clearly specified the objective, scope of work,
inputs, outputs and timing as well as the counterpart input.
12.02     The  data  relevant  to the preparation  of  this  PCR were  readily
available and the system of project documentation was adequate. However, because
of the political instability in Haiti, IDA could not mount a PCR mission. All
communications with the Government in connection with the preparation of this PCR
has been by mail or phone.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1786-HA)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
13.01     From  the  outset,  this  Technical  Assistance  Project  was  very
appropriately designed. Part A (Strengthening of the Public Sector) supported
the Government's Economic Recovery Program, cofinanced by the IMF, USAID and IDA
(Credit 1766-HA).  Equipment financed by IDA expanded MEF's computer facilities,
thereby allowing more extensive systematization of information required for
improved management of public expenditures.   The study on natural resource
management focused on the very acute problem of environmental deterioration in
Haiti. Part D (Restructuring and Developing of Private Industry) was designed
to assist industrial enterprises affected by changes in Haiti's trade regime to
take appropriate steps to raise their productivity, develop export-oriented
activities and become more competitive on international markets. Part C (Other
Studies and Technical Assistance) was not well formulated.
13.02     The project was relatively well organized, thanks to:
(i)  The consultant who assisted the project manager, from as early as the
preparation stage to recruit international consultants to conduct the
various studies proposed.
(ii) The consulting firm which advised on project management.
(iii)  The ad hoc Committee, chaired by the project manager, which oversaw
the study to assess the degradation of Haiti's natural environment.
This organization made it possible to keep project management very
flexible.
13.03     Equipment.  Project proceeds were used to finance one of the MEF mini-
computers, as well as training for relevant staff in the maintenance of computer
equipment when it became clear that DEC, the supplier, was not interested in
providing such services. DEC also failed to provide the best service as regards
general organization of the training program (organization of timetable, billing
of training costs).
13.04     Public Sector Management.  Although the macroeconomic adviser did not
act as an adviser to the Minister from the outset of the project, he took on this
role subsequently. He also provided excellent training for the staff of MEF's
Economic Studies Department. The consultant on public finances was able to make
only one of three expected visits, owing to lack of interest in the program on
the part of subsequent Administrations. Certain other specific problems apart,



- 12 -
the fact that the National Promotion and Public Service Commission (CPNAP) had
not been involved in the preparatory phases (such as drafting terms of reference
for and recruiting a suitable consultant) contributed to the setback with the
project economist. Conduct of the studies on how to increase rentals on State
lands, on the public enterprises and on customs matters would have been greatly
facilitated had the sectors concerned been more closely involved.
13.05     Management of Natural Resources (environmental studies).  The method
by which the study on natural resource management (i.e., to assess the
degradation of haiti's natural environment) was organized was an important factor
in the success of this project component. The fact that all sectors concerned
had technical input at almost all stages of the study was crucial to achievement
of the continuity that marked this effort, despite the prevailing political
instability.   Since the project manager had been assigned responsibility for
monitoring and coordinating the tasks of the Committee, resumption of those
tasks, as well as reestablishment of liaison between the consulting firm and the
authorities, were assured at each change in the political situation and at all
stages of the study. While the results of the study may not have been entirely
satisfactory in the eyes of the Committee, partly because of the prevailing
political instability, the consulting firm all the same produced a satisfactory
document which laid the foundations for a project financed by IDA.
13.06     Industrial Restructuring and Development.  Despite certain problems,
the activities making up this project component were able to go ahead.   An
Industrial Restructuring Development Project is being financed on the basis of
the studies carried out.
13.07     Other Studies and Technical Assistance.  Although this component was
not well formulated either by the time project documentation was finalized or
subsequently, the authorities were anyhow able to use part of project proceeds
for studies or assistance which doubtless enabled newly appointed officials to
continue with or rectify the Economic Recovery Program under way in light of
experience gained and new needs identified.
14.01     Results.  The financing allocated to the equipment component made it
possible to expand and supplement MEF computer capabilities and to train the
necessary  maintenance  technicians.    As  for  the  public  sector  management
component, which hindsight has shown to have been too ambitious, given the socio-
political context at the time, is less clear that the studies undertaken will be
utilized. They were not directly linked to any investment possibility, and this
may well have been a determining factor in a context in which there was no
guarantee of policy continuity.  The studies made of Haiti's industrial sector
have led to IDA's financing of an Industrial Reorganization and Development
Project. The Other Studies and Technical Assistance component was never properly
formulated by the Haitian authorities, probably as a consequence of the
instability which characterized the project implementation period.
15.01     Bank's Performance.  The Technical Assistance Project was designed to
support an Economic Recovery Program undertaken by the Government of Haiti in
1987.  One of its most positive aspects was the excellent collaboration between
IDA personnel and the Haitian authorities, which no doubt enabled it to go ahead



- 13 -
under the conditions of continuing instability which were a feature of the
implementation period.
15.02     The project officer retained his post throughout virtually the entire
execution period.   His professional advice and his liaison in the sometimes
difficult relationships between the Borrower and the international consultants
were considered most valuable.  He displayed a real interest in the problems
facing Haiti at a time when the instability that was the order of the day was
more likely to provoke discouragement by making even the simplest tasks very
difficult.
15.03     Attention may be called to two areas  of weakness  in the Bank's
performance during the course of the project. On the one hand, the assistance
the Borrower expected with introduction of the customs tariff never materialized.
On the other, the financial assistance promised for the Haitian private sector,
which had participated in the work of customs tariff reform, was not made
available on schedule; initially, this was a consequence of the Bank's own
reorganization, which led to considerable delays in sending out missions, and
subsequently of the complicated situation created by political instability in
Haiti.
16.01     Borrower's Performance.  The fact that there were no changes at the
project manager level contributed significantly to the successful completion of
this  whole  venture.      Creation  of  the  Interministerial  Committee,  its
uninterrupted existence and low membership turnover were some of the major
elements in the success of the study on the management of natural resources
(i.e., to assess the degradation of Haiti's natural environment).
16.02     Given the institutional weaknesses in Haiti's machinery of government,
a minimum of political stability would be crucial to the success of any project.
In the particular case under review here, closer involvement, right from the
project identification phase, of technical personnel working in those sectors
which were the focus of project studies would have been of great assistance (by
facilitating the handing over of pertinent information to the consultants in
charge of the studies, by allowing utilization of the services of technical
personnel interested in the topics of study and therefore more inclined to be
persistent with the decision-making level of government as political changes
succeeded one another, and by helping to limit high staff turnover and loss of
motivation with respect to the project studies.
16.03     It is also worth drawing attention to certain matters of detail:  The
standard models of contract should be improved and adapted better to the specific
requirements of undertaking studies. Studies should be issued in a number of
copies, since this would place the authorities in possession of documentation
which, even if not acted upon immediately, could be utilized in the preparation
of subsequent studies.






- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1786-HA)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED IDA CREDITS
Credit                               Year of
Title        Purpose                 Approval    Status        Comments
Economic     The principal objec-   03/24/87    Completed   Originally $40
Recovery     tive was to support                  9/30/88      m i 1 1 i o n    w a s
Program      Haiti's fiscal and                                provided to be
1766-HA      trade reforms                                     disbursed in two
initiated after a                                tranches of
change in the political                          $20 million each.
regime in February 1986                          The second tranche
was  canceled  on
September 30, 1988
because  of  non-
compliance due to
civil unrest.
Industrial   The objective was to   12/05/89    Ongoing        Currently all
Restructur-  provide financial and                             operations in
ing and      technical assistance                              Haiti are suspend-
Development  to small and medium                               ed as of 11/19/91.
Project      enterprises undergoing
Credit       restructuring as well as
2071-HA      to other enterprises
needing assistance and
assistance for institu-
tional development.
Forestry     The objective of the   09/24191    (not yet    Currently all
and          project is to slow the                signed)    operations in
Environ-     pace of degradation of                            Haiti are suspend-
mental       Haiti's natural                                   ed as of 11/19/91.
Protection   resources.
Project
(not yet
signed)
Comment:     The above projects are closely linked to the Technical Assistance
Project. The Technical Assistance Project was prepared in tandem
with, and supported measures financed under the Economic Recovery
Credit. Major project studies for the Industrial Restructuring and
Development Project and the Forestry and Environmental Protection
Project were undertaken under the Technical Assistance Project.



- 16 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date               Date               Date
Item                     Planned            Revised             Actual
Identification                                                  July 1986
Appraisal                                                       Sept./October 1986
Credit Negotiations                                             March 1987
Board Approval                                                  April 16, 1987
Credit Signature                                                May 20, 1987
Credit Effectiveness    May 1987                                July 7, 1987
Project Completion       December 1987                          December 1991
Credit Closing           March 1987         March 1989          February 1991
December 1989
February 1991
Note:   Time Line is not needed since many of the planned dates are not
available.
Comments on the Timetable
The Technical Assistance Project was originally conceived in January 1985
as a free standing project to provide assistance to the Ministries of Finance,
Planning and Agriculture, to prepare a comprehensive program to strengthen key
institutions responsible for economic management of the country and to prepare
adjustment programs for the agriculture and industrial sectors. This proposal
was based on a mission which visited Haiti in September 1984.



- 17 -
Table 3 : CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IDA FY                  1987     1988      1989      1990      1991       1992
Appraisal Estimates   1.2         2.7       3.0
Actual                  0.0       2.076    2.735    2.905    2.909
Actual as % of
Estimates               0.0     76.88    91.16    96.83    96.96
Date of Final Disbursement: November 21, 1992
Time Line of Planned. Revised and Actual Disbursements
Technical Assistance Project
Time Line
Disbursements
3
2.5 -
2-
1.5 
1
0.5                                           Z
1987      1988       1989      1990       1991
Year
PLANNED      3ACTUAL



- 18 -
Table 4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
Planned            Actual             Months
Project Components             Completion         Completion          of Delay
A. Public Sector Management
Macroeconomic Advice         June 1988          December 1988       Extended
Project Economist            June 1988          April 1988          N.A.*
Public Service Employment
and Pay                    December 1987      August 1988        8 months
Financial Monitoring of
Public Enterprises         August 1987        November 1987       2 months
Ciment d'Haiti               July 1987          N.A.                Abandoned
Trade Drawback System        December 1987      June 1988           6 months
State Land Rentals           March 1988         July 1988           4 months
Alternatives for Sugar in
the Plaine du Nord         December 1987      July 1988          8 months
Project Administration                          July 1987
B.  Environmental Studies      June 1989          October 1990        16 months
C. Industrial Restructuring
and Development
Industrial Incentives
Study                     Completed before project
Diagnosis                   February 1987      July 1987          5 months
Indepth Studies             June 1988          May 1989           11 months
D. Other Studies and
Technical Assistance       June 1989          N.A.               Restructured
*  The Project Economist was separated from his employment in April 1992.



- 19 -
Table 5A: ALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS
Original             Actual
Category                              Allocation         Disbursements
in SDRs
Goods                                   76,000               171,925.54
Consultant Services
For Public Sector Strengthening    356,000                 425,389.42
For Environmental Studies            143,000               129,130.84
For Other Studies and TA              65,000                     0.00
Con. for In-depth Industrial Restr.  430,000                 357,115.09
Con. Services Ind. Restr. (DIAG)       297,000               378,011.90
Operating Cost FDI                      63,000                58,331.34
Refunding PPF Advance                  970,000               698,020.91
Initial Deposits                       (18,011.22)           (18,011.22-)
TOTAL                             2,400,000.00         2,236.894.44



- 20 -
Table 5B: PROJECT FINANCING
(in $)
Source of Funds      Planned Credit    Agreement       Actual      Project Costs
Total          Total I        Total          Total 2
IDA                    3,000,000           87         2,908,079.77          87
Government & FDI         315,000            9           300,835.83           9
Private Industry         135,000            4           133,704.81           4
3,450,000          100        3,342.620.41          100



- 21 -
Table 6A: PROJECT RESULTS
A. Public Sector Management
Planned                Actual
Start    Man
Up     Months   Cost        IMP. Period  Cost(S
Macroeconomic Advisor      3/87    16 mos   186,000    5/87-12/88   163,039
Public Expenditures        2/87    19 mos   554,000    11/87-4/88    62,774
Public Sector Employment
and Pay                  6/87    12 mos    88,000    10/87-8/88    73,170
Financial Monitoring of
Public Enterprises       6/87    3 mos      30,000    08/87-11/87   51,246
Ciment d'Haiti              NS     2 mos      20,000    Canceled        n.a.
Trade Drawback System       NS     4 mos      78,000    9/87-6/88      12,002
State Land Rentals          NS     9 mos    100,000    5/88-6/88       71,292
Alternatives to Sugar
In the North              NS     6 mos      58,000    11/87-7/88    58,586
Start-up and Management    NS      3 mos      56,000    4/87-7/87       7,648
B. Industrial Restructuring and Development
Man
Months    Cost       IMP. Period
Industrial Incentives
Study                            26 mos   413,000        n.a.
FDI Operating Costs                24 mos   732,000    7/87-12/90
Diagnosis and In-Depth
Analysis Study                   57 mos   832.000    7/87-5/89*
Sub-total                      1,977,000
* Diagnostic phase completed in June 1987, firms to be restructured identified
as of May 1989.



- 22 -
C. Industrial Sectors
No. of                                     No. of
Firms                                      Firms
Diagnostic Studies
Agro-industry            18                Chemicals                 13
Metal                    13                Textile                    8
Building/Construction    7                 Other                      4
Total             38                    Total                25
GRAND TOTAL 63
Indepth Studies
Agro-industries           7                Chemicals                  7
Textiles                  3                Build/Construction         3
Metals                    4                Other                      1
Total            14                     Total               11
GRAND TOTAL 25
Actual
Start              Estimated   IMP.
Up      Planned      Cost    Period         Cost
D. Environmental
Studies Component         Jan 88   9 mos    206,000       16 mos       $168,000
E.  Other Studies and
Technical Assistance      Sept 87             97,000       Revised       N.A.
Table 6B & 6C Note Applicable



Table 6D: STUDIES
Studies               Purposes as Defined    |            Status                       Impact
.________________ I         at  Appraisal       I                            I
1.  Public Service Pay      To provide a basis for                Completed                       NA
and Employment              policy decisions
concerning the
reorganization of the
Civil Service and its
method of functioning in
order to rectify known
deficiencies
2.  Trade Drawback          To put exports in free                Completed                       NA
System                      trade status by
permitting automatic and
speedy access to duty-
free imports
3.  Increasing Rental on   To prepare a two-phased                Completed                       NA
State Lands                 program (i) to enable
implementation of
appropriate increases in
rents and (ii) to
prepare a framework for
a rational program of
administration of state
lands
4.  Sugar Cane and          To analyze opportunities              Completed                       NA
Alternative Crop             for and constraints to
Development in the          agricultural development
Plaine du Nord              in the Plaine du Nord.
To rationalize
centrifugal sugar
production in the area
and to review
technically feasible and
economical alternatives
to sugar cane production
I and processing



Studies              Purposes as Defined                Status                      Impact
at Appraisal
5.  Environmental           (i) To evaluate the                 Completed           Provided the Basis for
extent of the land                                      the Forestry and
degradation problem in                                  Environmental Protection
Haiti; (ii) to determine                                Project
the net economic effect
of land degradation in
Haiti; and (iii) to
prepare a comprehensive
strategy to arrest land
degradation and promote
erosion control
6.  Diagnostic and In-     Diagnostic Phase:  To                Completed           65 Enterprises
Depth Studies of Haitian   assess an enterprise's                                   benefitted from the
Industrial Enterprises      strengths and weaknesses                                diagnosis studies and 25
and to indicate                                         enterprises underwent
functional areas where                                  the in-depth studies
an in-depth study is                                                              l 
warranted.  On the basis                                                          l 
of the diagnosis,
undertaking an in-depth
analysis of identified
problems and developing
a restructuring plan for
the enterprise



- 25 -
Table 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Compliance         Status of
Section   Covenant                      Deadline           Compliance
3.01(b)   Appoint a project manager   By effectiveness  In full compliance but
with Terms of Reference,                         borrower proposed not
qualification and                               to make this a full-
experience satisfactory                         time position.
to IDA.
3.03(a)   Enter into agreement with   By disbursement   In full compliance
Central Bank for:
(i) Industrial
Restructuring;
(ii) transfer of credit
proceeds; and (iii) meeting
auditing, reporting,
procurement and other
obligations.
3.03(b)   Appointment of agent to       By disbursement   In full compliance
handle contracting of
consultants for the Public
Sector Management and Other
Studies and Technical
Assistance components.
3.04      Carry out studies in          No date            In full compliance
accordance with              specified
satisfactory Terms of
Reference.
3.05(a)   Establish, maintain and       By disbursement   In full compliance
operate Technical
Assistance Account under
satisfactory terms.
3.05(b)   Enter into Technical          By disbursement   In full compliance
Assistance Contract before
commencing analysis and
restructuring plans with
any private enterprise.
4.01(a)   Maintain separate records   No date              In full compliance
and accounts for all         specified
project components.



- 26 -
4.01(b)   Audit project accounts         No specific date       The 1991 audit is
and submit audit report        specified but         still pending
no later than 4 months         audits were due       because of the
after end of fiscal year.    by March 1, each        political
year.                 situation
4.01(c)   Maintain separate accounts   No specific date         In full compliance
for SOEs, and audits to        specified
contain separate opinion
on the SOEs.



- 27 -
Table 8A: USE OF IDA RESOURCES
Staff Inputs
Staff Weeks
State of
Project Cycle                   Planned          Revised          Final
Prep. to appraisal
Departure                                                        3.7
Appraisal through
Board approval                                                  23.2
Negotiations through
Board Approval                                                   7.6
Supervision                                                       38.7
PCR                               6
Comments: Planned and revised staff weeks are not available.



- 28 -
Table 8B: MISSIONS
Stage of         Month/  No. of   Days in  Specialization *
Project Cycle     Year   Persons   Field       Represented
Identification              -
Preparation                 2                   EC EC
Appraisal         10/86     3                   EC EC OA
Post Appraisal              -                                 Performance  Type of
Status b/  Problem
Supervision 1    05/87      4        5          EC FA EC CE  F M I S
Supervision II   09/87      2        5          EC EC         not rated
Supervision III  03/88      2       10          FA OA         1 1 2 1       delays    in
implementi
component
Supervision IV   06/89      2       10          FA CEN        not rated
Supervision V    06/90      1        5          Cm            1 2 1 1       delays    in
finaliz ing
maintenance
contract adt
PCR               05/92     1                   FA
35
Kev                                             KeV b I
Key '/                                               - b
EC  =  Economist                                F  -  Finance
FA  =  Financial Analyst                        M  -  Monitoring & Evaluation
CE =  Consultant - Economist                    I  -  Institutional
C=  Consultant - Environmentalist               S  -  Studies
OA  =  Operations Assistants



- 29 -
Annex I
Linkage Between the Government Reform Program.
the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
and the Technical Assistance Project
Broad Policy Area
Supported by ERC                                  Related Project Action
Macroeconomic Stabilization                       Financed Macroeconomic Adviser
a) Overall Performance
b) Fiscal Policy
c) Monetary Policy
Tax Reform
Public Expenditure
-  Recurrent                                      TAP-financed Advisers and RbIic
service Employment Pay                            Study
- Public Investment
- Sector Policy Area
Public Enterprises
Agro-Industrial and Industrial Enterprises         TAP Study of Alternatives to
sugar in the North
Financial Monitoring                              Financial Monitoring of Public
Enterprises
Completion and Industrial Incentives
Trade Regime                                      Technical    Assistance    for
Industrial Restructuring
Fiscal Incentives                                 Trade Drawback scheme
Agriculture
a)  Pricing                                       Environmental Studies
b)  Policy-induced rents                          Study to increase State land
rentals
c) Credit



- 30 -
Annex II
Changes in Government* During Proiect Cycle
February 7, 1986               Departure of Jean-Claude Duvalier.
Installation of government of General Namphy.
January 17, 1988               General Namphy steps down.
Leslie Manigat becomes President.
June 19, 1988                  General Namphy deposes Manigat.
Second Namphy Administration.
September 18, 1988             General Namphy ousted.
Lt. General Prosper Avril takes power.
March 10, 1990                 General Avril resigns.
Ertha Pascal Trouillot is installed as President.
February 7, 1991               Father Jean-Bertrand Aristide  is sworn in as
first democratically-elected Government.
September 30, 1991             Father Aristide ousted.
Joseph Nerette installed as President.
June 19, 1992                  Joseph Nerette resigns.
Marc Bazin sworn in as Prime Minister.
Office of President left vacant.
* Does not include cabinet changes



