Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
P  / /a-6  -Ao
Report No. P-4433-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 2.4 MILLION (USt 3.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 7, 1987
This document has a resuricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Gourde (G)
G 1.00 - US$0.20
US$1.00 - G 5.00
The Courde has been pegged to the U.S. Dollar since 1919 at this rate.
WEIGETS AND NEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
This report uses FY for fiscal year. Thus FY87 refers to the period from
October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
AdBBEVIATIONS
BC&      Bureau de Credit Agricole (Agricultural ^redit Bureau)
BND&I    Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole et Industriel (National
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank)
CUG      Conseil National de Gouvernement (National Government Council)
CPN&P    Commissariat a la Promotion Nationale et a l'Administration
Publique (planning agency)
ENAOL    Enterprise Nationale des Oleagineux (vegetable oil factory)
FDI      Fonds de Developpement Industriel (Industrial Development Fund)
IDB      trnter-American Development Bank
fIF      International Monetary Fund
MCI      Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MR1      Ministry of Economy and Finance
SOe      Statement of Expenditure
TAF      Technical Assistance Fund
UNDP     United Nacions Development Programme
USN      Usine Sucriere du Nord (sugar mill)
USND     Usine Sucriere Nationale de Darbonne (sugar mill)



Foi omcUiL USE oNLY
DAITI
TECUNICAL ASSISTANCE PROTECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SMAY ..........................................   i
I. Tbe Economy                                                  I 1
A. Main Features............................. ..             I
B. Developments, FY3O-85...6...........                      3
II. The Goveroment' S Economic Recovery Program, Y86-88 ...  4
A. Political Background .e...e..................m ......  4
B. Overall Strategy ......................                   5
C. Macroeconomic Stabilization ..... *oee.............s     6
D. Tax 8..................... ..SCe ......  8
E. Public Expenditure..........         .................    9
F. Public Enterprises............................me 13
G. Competition and Industrial Incentives............... 16
H. Agriculture       ........       .....e.........*. 19
I. Economic, Environmental and Social Impact ........... 21
III. The Proposed Project ......        ............................ 25
A.Hsoy............................. 25
B. Objectives ......................... .........           25
C.                                                         ecito ......** 26
D. Implementation and Administration............e...... 29
E. Cost and Financing        .............m....e.. 29
F. Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing.... 30
G. Benefits and Risks.............................. in... 31
IV. Bank Group Operations and Strategy .................... 32
V. Relations with the DW and with Other Donors .....e.... 34
VI. Reco=endation ..........              .......   34
Thi document has a  tricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the pefomance
of theiroffFicildutic s1 contents maynototherwiwbe dbwlau  withut World Bank autxiborinw



Table of Contents (continued)
Page   .
TEXT TABLES
Table     1:  Treasury Budgets, FY86 and FY81................... 11
Table     2:  Public Investment Program, FY86 and FY87........... 12
Table     3:  Summary Economic Projections With and Without
Recovery Progra     .                 .............. 22
AUSIES
Annex     I:  Economic Indicators and ProjectionsJ............o s.  35
Annex    II:  The Status of Bank Group Operations in Haiti....... 38
Annex   III:  Supplementary Project Data Sheet................... 40
Annex    IV:  Government's Letter of Recovery Policy.,*..,*,.... 42
Annex     V:  The Government's Program, the Economic Recovery
Credit and the Proposed Project.................... 49
Annex    VI:  Public Investment Program, FY87.Y..................  54
Annex   VII:  Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan.......... 61
Annex  VIII:  Draft Terms of Reference:  Public Sector Management 64
Annex    IX:  Draft Terms of Reference:  Environmental Studies... 82
Annex     X:  Draft Terms of Reference:  Industrial Restructuring
and Deve       lopment.......... me......eme.eosm......e. 87
UP
Haiti (IBRD Map 17094R)



HAM
TECHEIEAl ASSISTACR PROJECT
Credlt and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Haiti.
hecuri
AR4-enes`       Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEY) and Industrial
Development Fund (PDI).
Amount:         IDA credit of SDR 2.4 million (US$3.0 million equivalent).
Terms:          Standard IDA.
Description:    The main objectives of the proposed project are to
strengthen the Government's capacity to liplement its
Economic Recovery Program, develop a strategy to deal with
Haiti's deteriorating environment and to assist
manufacturing enterprises affected by the ongoing trade
reforms. Its principal components would be: (i) public
sector management support including assistance in the
progrsmming, control and monitoring of public expenditure;
(ii) studies to assess the degradation of Haitils natural
environment; (iii) assessment and support of the
restructuring and development needs of private industry to
facilitate adaptation to recent trade reforms; and (iv)
other related studies and technical assistance.
Benefits:       The project would strengthen the capability of the
Government to impleaent the Economic Recovery Program and
thus foster the restructuring of the Haitian economy toward
the production of exports.
Risks:          Project implementation would be adversely affected by delays
in appointment of consultants. However this would be
mitigated by intensive IDA supervision and the appointment
of a Ministry of Economy and Finance (HEF) Project Manager
and a firm to handle administration for the Public Sector
Management and Environmental Studies components, as well as
by the hiring of an international consultant to assist with
the startup and management of the Public Sector Management
component. Agreement was also reached during negotiations
to hire, by October 31, 1987, the consulting firm to
undertake the in-depth studies for the Industrial
Restructuring and Development component. Another project
risk pertains to possible overestimation of the Initial



- iI -
demand for technical assistance for restructuring and
development by private industry, especially lf the Increased
levels of contraband trade noticeable since September 1986
persist. Finally, there is a riak that the Government that
will take office in February 1988 could fall to Implement
the recommendations of studies financed under this project.
However, the availability of well-prepared studies, useful
for decision making, should help the new Government in
developing its policies and would contribute to continuity
of approach.
Estimated Cost:
Foreign     Local    Total
------(US$  000)-
Public Sector Management                     930       240        1,170
Environmental Studies                        180        26          206
Industrial Restructuring and Dbv.          1,211       766        1,977
Other Studies and Te hnical Assistance        82         15          97
Total                                      2,403     1,047        3,450
Financing Plan:
IDA                                        2,403       597        3,000
Government and FDI                             -       315          315
Private industry                               -       135          135
Total                                      2,403     1,047        3,450
Estimated Disbursements: (US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                               FY87      FY88         FY89
Annual                                         1.2        1.5         0.3
Cumulative                                     1.2        2.7         3.0
Appraisal eport:  None.
IBRD 17094R



INTNlUATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPOLT AN1 RECIhEhIMTIOn OF TEE PRESIDENT
TO THE KIECUTIVE DIRECTODRS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE RNPULIC OF HAITI
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recomnendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Haiti for SDR 2.4 million (US$3.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Technical
Assistance Project.
PART I - TE ECONOMY
2.       The assessment of the Haitian economy in this report is based
largely on three documents already distributed to the Executive Directors
and on the work of the appraisal mission (September/October 1986) for the
proposed credit. Haiti: Policy Proposals for Growth (5601-HA) ias
distributed on June 18, 1985 and Haiti: Public Expenditure Review (611341A)
on October 5, 1986. The joint Covernment/IDA/IHF Policy Framework Paper for
an IMF Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement was discussed by the
Committee of the Whole on November 18, 1986. All three were also made
available to the members of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development, whose Haiti Subgroup met in November 1986. Annex I presents
economic data.
A. Maiu Features
3.       Haiti is a small, densely populated, predominantly rural, and open
economy. Its 5.4 million people occupy 28,000 square kilometers, the
western end of the island of Hispaniola, and are among the poorest in the
world. Absolute poverty in Haiti is unmatched in the Western Hemisphere.
Life expectancy at birth is only 53 years, the infant mortality rate is
about 120 per 1,000 live births, over 25 percent of children suffer from
second or third degree malnutrition and 27 percent die before the age of
five; about 65 percent of adult Haitians are illiterate. Economic and
social conditions improved in the 1970s, but the economy stagnated during
the 1980s, unemployment increased, and real per capita income fell; in 1985,
it averaged US$350 (Atlas basis), and half the laber force is unemployed or
underemployed.
4.       Three quarters of the population live in the rural areas, and
ultimately depend on agriculture, historically the principal productive
sector. Since the early 1970s, however, the volume and value of
agricultural output, including exports, have increased little. Physical
production per capita has fallen steadily as relentless population pressure



-2-
has forced peasants to cultivate ever more margina; hillside land.
Strernlous family planning efforts, largely by non-governmental
organizations, have yet to show results. Only about 20 percent of the
rugged, mountainous terrain is considered cultivable; nonetheless, aDOUt 30
percent is actually cultivated. The average farm size is below 1.1
hectdres. This shortage of land, coupled with insecurity of tenure and the
demand for wood and charcoal for energy, has generated a vicious circle of
deforesetation and soil erosion that hae further intensified the shortage.
Declining rural Incomes have led to substantial rural-urban and
international migration. The total population is growing at 1.8 percent per
annum, net of emigration of 0.5 percent, while the urban population is
expanding by four percent.
5.       Past public policies in agriculture exacerbated the scarcity of
land and the pressure of population. A million people on the hillsides
depend on coffee, the major cash crop, expansion of which has been
discouraged by an export tax. Reduced from 26 percent in the early 1980s,
this tax was still about 22 percent in FY86, representing half the price
received by the producers. Producer prices for foodgrains were increased to
well above world prices by import restrictions. This fostered the
cultivation of maize on the hillsides instead of coffee and worsened soil
erosion. Cotton production was also discouraged by a producer price below
the import parity price. Public agricultural investment and credit programs
were occasionally targeted more to social relief than to stimulating either
growth in productivity, output and employmcnt or effective soil
conservation. On the plains, where agricultural potential is much greater
than on the hillsides, irrigation systems lack operating and maintenance
finance, and are silting up from the erosion on the hills; much State and
private land is unexploited; and peasants practice highly risk-averse
production patterns.
6.       These agricultural problems have resulted in Haiti's increasing
dependence on imported staples to satisfy basic food requirements. In FY85,
food imports accounted for about 24 percent of all official merchandise
imports, compared to 20 percent ten years earlier. Substantial and
increasing quantities of contraband food, particularly rice, maize and
sugar, are also entering the country.
7.       In recent decades, output and employment have shifted toward urban
activity, largely as a result of a scarcity of cultivable land and the
establishment in the 1970s of a labor-intensive, export assembly industry.
Agriculture now accounts for only one third of GDP compared with one half in
the early 1950s. Gross national savings are very low, averaging only about
five percent of GDP since FY80. This deficiency of savings, which is
particularly marked in agriculture, leaves the economy reliant on external
savings in the form of concessional aid to attain levels of investment
consistent with sustained growth. The economy has become much more open; by
1980, the total value of exports and imports of goods and services had risen
to about 50 percent of GDP.



- 3 -
8.       Despite the expansion of manufacturing for export, the external
payments position is weak; the export base remains narrow, leaving Haiti
vulnerable to exogenous shocks. The aesembly Industry produces a very
limited range of products--electronics, clothing, and sporting goods-yet
accounts for over 50 percent of all exports; external factors, such as the
1980-83 world recession and the shakeout in the North American computer
industry have contributed to the recent slowdown in this subsector. Coffee,
which accounts for about 25 percent of exports, is particularly vulnerable
to world price fluctuatlons and to hurricanes. Tourism has virtually ceased
as a result of publicity concerning AIDS and the only bauxite mine closed in
1982, when deposlts were exhausted.
9.       In the second half of the 1970s, economic growth, averaging 4.5
percent per annum, allowed for some Improvement in real per capita income.
A basic physical infrastructure was established and education and health
received attention, virtually for the first time since the 1930s. Prudent
financial policies were pursued and foreign development assistance was
substantial. The economy was virtually on a dollar standard, with the
Gourde remaining at a fixed parity of five to the U.S. dollar, and prices
were relatively stable.  These conditions helped engender private sector
confidence and promoted the continued rapid expansion of the export asseubly
induitry, largely based on Haitian entrepreneurial talent. Although it has
enjoyed tax holidays and other investment incentives, this subsector's
primary advantage has been the freely determined structure of wages in
Haiti. Until recently it was the fastest growing assembly industry In the
Caribbean Basin; over 50,000 jobs were crested by 1980. In contrast, the
private industrial subsector producing for the domestic market, which grew
quickly in the early 1970s behind high walls of protection, quickly
saturated this market and has stagnated for almost 10 years. There is
little scope for this domestic subsector to expand into export markets
without major restructuring.
D. Developments, 7Y0" 5
10.      From FY80-85 the public sector expanded its influence in the
economy through higher rates of taxation, even higher levels of public
expenditure--the control and allocation of which was seriously
deficient--and an increase in the number of public enterprises. Waste and
inefficiency became endemic. Extrabudgetary expenditures rose disturbingly,
as did the level of corruption. New and inefficient public industrial
enterprises were formed, resulting in real resource losses equivalent to
almost four percent of GDP each year. Too much spending went to salaries
and non-development purposes, not enough to non-salary operating costs; too
little went for development, and the returns on public investment were very
low or even negative. Transfers from the Treasury to the investment budget
were partly diverted to meet salary payments in ministries without
development functions, reducing the availability of counterpart funds for
aid-financed projects. Per capita public spending on health declined by 45



- 4 -
percent from FY80-86. The overall public sector deficit before grant.
averaged over 10 percent a year (6.5 percent after grants). Public savings
dropped to lees than one percent of GDP on average and recourse to
nonconcessional financing, mostly Central Bank credit, increased to more
than three percent of GDP on average. Thio in turn exerted heavy pressure
on the balance of payments; official net reserves declined at an annual rate
of US$22 million and had fallen to minus US$93 million by the end of FY85.
Cross reserves had declined to less than three weeks' Import coverage.
Payments arrears accumulated and a parallol foreign exchange market
developed, with the Gourde selling at a discount which at times exceeded 20
percent.
11.      The confidence of the Haitian people, the prtvate sector and the
international aid donor community was eroded and the economy declined by an
average of 0.6 percent per yrar from FY81-86, compared to the growth of the
late 1970s. Per capita incomes In FY86 were 15 percent below those in
FY80. There was increasing immiseratlon in the rural areas and
emigration--the "boat people-increased. Starting In April 1984, there was
intermittent civil unrest. The assembly industry stagnated since 1983.
Employment in this subsector peaked at about 60,000 jobs but is estimated to
have declined by around 10 percent since, mainly in response to political
uncertainty and civil unrest. Donors expressed concern over inappropriate
public investments, the lack of overall public investment priorities, and
poor policies in agriculture and Industry. In the absence of a major
overhaul of public investment, foreign aid declined from seven to five
percent of GDP from FY83-85 and several donors allocated their aid away fror
the public sector toward non-governmental organizations.
12.      The Government's increased revenue demands on the domestic economy
in the 1980s were met through rent-seeking pricing policies by public
industrial enterprises that enjoyed trade monopolies. Together with the
Intensification of import restrictions and of private production and
importing monopolies, this inflated prices for basic consumer goods to well
above world levels.   The annual increase in constiner prices averaged eight
percent in FY80-86, double that of Haiti's main trading partners. An
outright ban on the importation of specific consumptlon Items was first
introduced in 1981 and then replaced by an administered system of import
licensing after 1982. Both trade restrictions and pricing policies created
price distortions with neighboring countries, and encouraged contraband in
imported consumption goods.
PART II - THE            'S ECODNONC RECOVERY PROGARM, 7786-88
A. Political Background
13.      Coming to power in 1957, President Francois Duvalier closed the
economy, conducted an effective reign of terror, and ended all hope of
progress until his death in 1971. His son and successor, Jean-Claude, began
a limited modernization process. The economy became more open, foreign aid



- 5 -
began co flow, and emigrants returned from the diaspora. The initial
response of the economy was positive; by the late 1970s, as noted, it was
growing at about 4.5 percent per annum.
14.      The economic stagnation of the early 1980s, however, led to
increasing political discontent. By late 1985, civil unrest was widespread
and the economy was deteriorating rapidly; by early 1986, the situation was
unsustainahle. The political system changed dramatically on February 7 with
the sudden departure from Haiti of President Duvalier. A provisional
National Covernment Council (CNG) came to power, pledged to hold elections
and promote economic recovery. Civil calm was largely restored within a few
months, although occasional disturbances continue. An electoral calendar
has been established and so far followed; presidential elections are
scheduled for November 1987, wlth a new Government taking office on February
7, 1988.
B. Overall Strategy
15.      The Government's intentions for the Haitian economy are set out In
its Letter of Recovery Policy (Annex IV): to reform public finances and
economic policies in order to hand over a viable, growing economy to its
elected successor and to establish conditions from which retrogression to
the inappropriate pnlicies of the past would be difficult. The essence of
the program is to reduce the exploitation of the average Haitian, long
impoverished by high consumer prices set to expropriate economic rents to
beneflt former regimes. An attempt is thus being made to end the past
system of privilege and monopoly. These actions are also intended to lead
to more sustained economic expansion; the overall target of the Economic
Recovery Program is GDP growth of at least 4.5 percent a year through
improved exports and agricultural performance. This target is to be
promoted both directly by the removal of impediments to efficient resource
allocation, and indirectly by the impetus to higher capital inflows that
these policies should generate. Central to this strategy is the need to
rebuild the confidence of Haitian workers, farmers and investors, on the one
hand, and foreign investors and aid donors, on the other.
16.      The policy measures to achieve the Government's objectives are,
first, macroeconomic stabilization and, second, the improvement of resource
allocation through reform of taxes, public expenditure, public enterprises,
competition and industrial incentives, and agricultural pricing and credit.
These are discussed in subsequent sections of Part II; reform of the trade
regime is a principal vehicle for many of them. The public sector's scope
is to be reduced, and it is to be made more efficient. In addition, the
Government is working to reduce external obstacles to Haitian exports. In
September 1986 it successfully negotiated a major increase in the United
States' import quota for Haitian textiles. If the new U.S. import ceilings
are achieved, Haiti's export assembly industry could expand its output by
some 45 percent and create 10-12,000 new jobs.



- 6 -
17.      The present Government's Economic Recovery Program will not, of
course, resolve lInitt's many severe development problems.  Thin will take
much more time than the short life of thrn Government, an it wall
recognIzes. ThusNi ts program ln demlgne'd to pave the way for futtire
development.
18.      A longer term development striAtegy will hdve to be based on taiti's
people; the couintry han ft'w nattiral reNourcets.  laitie's comparative
aidvantage lies In the development of urban industrial, export-oriented
produetion; Its internatltonally competitive wage structure has already led
to the establishment of the expor, assembly subsector, the most dynamic
element of the economy.  A development strategy based on human resources
implies major investments in human capital, through Improved education and
healthl. It also implies raising agricultural productlvity, productlon and
employment, as the bulk of the lHaitian people will continue to depend on
agriculture for nt least another generation. This in turn will necessitate
alleviating the pressure of population on the land through the introduction
of effective family planning and through migration from the hillsides to the
plains and cities. The development of urban industry and of agriculture on
the plains will require major improvements in Haiti's physical
infrastructure--espectally its urban capital stock, its export facilities
and services, and its irrigation systems--and in its deteriorating natural
environment.
C. Macroeconomic Stabilization
19.      Performance in FY86. The public sector's financial position
improved significantly in FY86. The year began in October 1985 with
approval of a budget that called for a reduction in the overall public
sector deficit (after grants) from 4.0 percent of GDP in FY85 to 1.7
percent; Central Bank financing was to be limited to 0.4 percent of GDP,
compared with 2.2 percent in FY85 and 3.5 percent in FY84. When the present
Government came to power in February 1986, the deficit and financing plan
were broadly on track. The composltion of expenditure, however, was
noticeably different from that budgeted as sound budgetary procedures were
being ignored.
20.      The Government took drastic steps to redress the budgetary
situation. From February on, both expenditures and taxes were cut and a
balanced budget was maintained, except for concessional financing. Many
wasteful current expenditures and unjustified "development" projects,
equivalent to some three percent of GDP on an annual basis, were
eliminated. About half of the savings were reallocated to priority sectors
(health, education, agriculture and internal security). The rest enabled
excise taxes to be reduced on basic consumption items such as flour, sugar,
vegetable oil, and petroleum products, and certain taxes, previously
earmarked for special projects of the previous regime, to be eliminated. In
total, current and development expenditure came to only 17 percent of GDP
compared to the 23 percent foreseen in the previous Government's budget.
21.      As a result, Haiti's financial situation improved substantially.
In FY86 the public sector was able to make net repayments on its external
commercial debt and to reduce the stock of debt to the domestic banking



- 7 -
system. The overall public sector deficit before grants was 5.2 percent of
GDP, compared to 7.5 percent in FY85; the deficit after grants was 1.0
percent of GDP. The reduction of the public sector deficit was accompanied
by a marked improvement In the balance of payments. The current account
deficit narrowed by two percent of GDP to 4.8 percent in FY86 and, after
six years of deficits, the overall balance of payments registered a surplus
of over US$20 million. The discount on the Gourde on the parallel foreign
exchange market fell back sharply after July 1986 to about 5-7 percent.
Inflationary pressures have also ended; the consumer price index fell by
four percent from February to September 1986.
22.      Objectives.  The Government recognizes that without continued
stabilization, the other elements of the recovery program will be
ineffectual. It aims to reduce further its outstanding stock of
nonconcessional debt, both external and to the domestic banking system; to
generate overall balance of payments surpluses equivalent to almost 1.5
percent of GDP in FY87 and close to one percent in each of the following two
years; and to keep inflation below about four percent, as in Haiti's main
trading partners. The centerpiece of this effort is fiscal policy. The
overall deficit (after grants) is expected to increase in FY87 to 1.8
percent of GDP from the low of 1.0 percent in FY86 and to remain close to
this level in the following two years as higher levels of concessional
financing are sustained. Assuming a favorable response of donors to its
Economic Recovery Program, the Government will limit the overall public
sector deficit, before grants, to about seven percent of GDP. The
anticipated level of grants and concessional aid will more than finance this
deficit, permitting the reduction of nonconcessional debt. Haiti's
nonconcessional debt and liabilities to the IMF should decline sharply,
falling by US$27 -llion or 16 percent in FY87 and by similar percentages in
the following two years. The Government and the monetary authorities do not
intend to contract or guarantee any nonconcessional external credit within
the 1-12 year maturity range, other than the refinancing of arrears.
23.      This fiscal stance will set a sound basis for monetary and credit
policy by facilitating a reduction in the stock of Central Bank credit to
the public sector. This in turn should allow an expansion in credit to the
private sector without either jeopardizing the inflation objective or
placing pressure on the balance of payments.
24.      Program for FY87.  In line with these broad objectives, the
Government has established a continued stabilization program for FY87,
supported by an IMF Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement which
includes quarterly benchmarks for Treasury receipts and outlays, net
financing of the public sector, and credit.
25.      This program projects Treasury revenue at 10.2 percent of GDP,
compared with actual collections of 11.5 percent in FY86. A similarly
cautious approach has been followed in making budgetary provision for
outlays financed with external cash grants. Although expectations are that
these may be as high as G 180 million, for programming purposes grant
disbursements have been set at G 140 million. The budget places a limit on
Treasury expenditures of 11 percent of GDP, permitting it to run a surplus
of G 40 million, which will be used to reduce Government debt to the Central
Bank. The public enterprises are expected to make net repayments to the
domestic banking system and reduce somewhat their indebtedness to external



commercial creditors. The overall public sector surplus (after grants) is
to rise to G 60 million, from C 48 million in FY86. Including public
Investment, overall public expenditure should recover to about 20 percent of
GDP.
26.      The Central Bank and the state-owned National Credit Bank will
be subject to ceilings on their net domestic assets and on credit extended
to the private sector. As a result, the Central Bank's net credit to the
public sector will be reduced by two percent, while commercial bank credit
to the private sector is projected to increase by 14 percent. The program
also calls for an overall balance of payments surplus of US$32 million which
will allow some reconstitution of net international reserves. External
arrears, which stood at US$14 million at the beginning of the fiscal year,
will be rescheduled or settled with cash payments by its end. By December
31, 1986, all first quarter benchmarks had been achieved.
D. Tax Reform
27.      Despite measures to overcome their sluggishness, including a value
added tax introduced in FY83, tax revenues remained low, at around
10 percent of GDP, through FY85. Besides Haiti's poverty, several factors
accounted for this. First, exemptions increased as part of industrial
investment and export promotion. This increased the difficulty of assessing
and collecting income taxes and customs duties. Second, the structure of
these taxes was too complex with unrealistically high marginal rates.
Third, taxes on agricultural exports, notably coffee, reduced farmers'
incentives to expand output. Fourth, too much reliance was placed on a vast
array of excises, fees and charges which depressed the buoyancy of the
system. Fifth, and above all, evasion and fraud were increasingly
widespread, largely reflecting the common perception that taxes were used to
finance inappropriate public expenditures.
28.      Starting in February 1986, the new Government embarked on a program
of far-reaching reforms aimed at improving the equity of the tax system and
increasing its respuasiveness to economic growth. The Government believes
that evasion can be reduced by broadening the tax base, lowering rates and
managing public finances in a transparent manner. The FY86 reform measures
were relatively modest while more important ones were being prepared. As
noted, excise taxes an consumption goods were reduced and certain taxes,
mainly ancillary taxes on wages, previously earmarked for special projects
of the previous regime, were eliminated. The revenue loss from these latter
sources, estimated tentatively at G 70 million, represented a benefit for
wage earners in Port-au-Prince and the other main towns. In addition, a
variable excise tax was imposed on petroleum products to capture the
difference between import costs and the domestic fixed prices. Finally, as
discussed in Part I1.G, quotas on 76 imported goods were replaced with ad
valorem tariffs.
29.      More fundamental measures were adopted in early FY87.  The export
tax on coffee was reduced from 22 to 10 percent and other export taxes on
cocoa and sisal were eliminated. The Government intends to eliminate the
coffee export tax when overall revenue and expenditure performance has
improved sufficiently. Also effective in early FY87, the income tax system



- 9 -
was simplified, with fewer tax brackets, fewer exemptions, lower marginal
rates, a greater degree of consistency between the treatment of individuals
and corporations, and improved collection procedures, the latter including
the dismissal of non-performing staff from the internal revenue service.
Administrative procedures are also being improved, in particular by
systematic cross-checks between income, value-added and trade taxes. In the
longer run, the Government intends to replace most excise taxes by the value
added tax. Finally, the Government implemented in early FY87 a further
round of import quota and tariff changes, replacing quotas and specific
tariffs with ad valorem tariffs, and intends to improve customs valuation
and enforcement procedures.
E. Public Expenditure
30.      From a development perspective, there were two major resource
allocation and expenditure control problems of the central Government before
FY86. First, the four development-oriented ministries--agriculture, public
works, education and health-suffered from inadequate non-salary operating
funds. Agricultural extension workers could not get to the fields,
irrigation systems were not properly maintained, schools were without
furniture and books, and public health clinics without drugs. Since the
internal efficiency of these ministries was low, the returns to existing
private and public investments in their areas of responsibility were much
lower than expected. The four ministries at the same time spent too much on
salaries. They had recruited too many unskilled employees, largely for
social or political reasons, and found it difficult to attract the skilled
staff they needed because of relatively low salary scales compared to other
parts of the Government. Fraudulent wage payments were also a serious
problem, especially in education and health.
31.      Second, the size and composition of the public investment program
has been determined more by the availability of externally packaged and
aided projects than by careful consideration by the Government of national
priorities and domestic resources likely to be available as counterpart
funds for these projects. The availability of foreign funds was
consistently overestimated. In addition, local resonrces earmarked for
investment included too many socially-oriented projects with low economic
returns in terms of their contribution to output and exports; many
represented disguised salary support. Shortages of local counterpart funds
were therefore common during project implementation. Overall implementation
of past programs never exceeded 70 percent of that forecast. During the
first half of the 1980s, the public investment program also included
inappropriate, resource-los'ng public industrial enterprises, as discussed
in the next section. Among justified projects, too may suffered from
insufficient technical design and poor implementation. In agriculture,
public investments were not accompanied by necessary pricing and structural
changes.
32.      Reflecting these two problems was a complex system of planning,
budgeting, monitoring and disbursing public investment, which provided
numerous opportunities to divert funds. The situation regarding current
expenditure was little better.



- 10 -
33.      The present Government has embarked on a widespread program of
reforms designed to begin to tackle these problems. Its aim is to manage
public finances transparently, to reallocate current expenditure toward
development-oriented ministries and the non-wage needs of development
projects, while concentrating public investment on the consolidation and
rehabilitation of existing and ongoing investments. These objectives are
modest but well chosen, given the limited life of this Government. By
February 1988, it should have achieved substantial results by comparison
with the past, but much will remain to be done, especially in the complex
and difficult areas of rationalizing public employment and establishing
efficient procedures for planning, budgeting, disbursing and monitoring
public expenditure.
34.      FY86 Reform. After February 1986, Treasury expenditure, which is
mostly current, was cut from an average monthly level of G 111 million to
C 84 million. Expenditure for the political support of the former regime
was eliminated; audits of several ministries and agencies identified
wasteful expenditures. The public investment program was severely pruned;
preliminary estimates indicate that only about 60 percent of the G 1,113
million forecast in October 1985 was actually implemented. In August 1986,
the former Ministry of Planning was replaced with a more streamlined
National Promotion and Public Service Commission (CPNAP), charged with
improving the public investment program and, together with the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, with examining development projects' recurrent
financial needs. Finally, toward the end of the fiscal year, the salary
question was addressed. First, wage payments were controlled in the
education sector to eliminate fraud; the Government intends to extend this
review to health and other sectors once the necessary staff and procedures
can be put in place. Second, untaxed fringe benefits were eliminated.
35.      During the last four months of FY86, the Government allowed
Treasury expenditure to rise again to an average monthly rate of about G 100
million. The G 16 million increase on the average of the previous four
months was intended to be used both for sorely needed salary increases and
for operating supplies in the education and health sectors. This intention
was, however, defeated. After teachers' and health workers' salaries were
raised, Government employees elsewhere went on strike for commensurate
increases. The end result was that the G 16 million was almost fully
allocated to raising salaries, not only in education and health, where the
functional need was greatest, but also in the armed forces and the
departments of customs, internal revenue, agriculture, interior and
justice. Very little was left for the purchase of operating supplies in
education and health. The effect on the Government's wage bill was
permanent. Resolving this problem is not feasible in the short term,
however. The Government is considering establishing a mechanism at the
highest political level to develop a policy to rationalize the public wage
bill and public employment.
36.      FY87 Treasury Budget. The Treasury budget for FY87 includes a
cemplete allocation of expenditures, abandoning the practice of reserving
large sums for unspecified programs; unallocated expenditures comprised
almost one fifth of the FY86 budget. There will be no extrabudgetary
Treasury spending and no transfers to public enterprises. The auditing
program is continuing, including audits of both the Ministry of the Economy
and Finance and of the Central Bank. Public sector accounting will be



- II -
improved by monthly reconciliations of the accounts of the Ministry of
Finance and the Central Bank. The current Treasury budget (i.e. excluding
debt service and transfers to Investment) more adequately reflects the
non-wage recurrent needs of development projects, particularly in education
and health. These two sectors' share of total current expenditure has
increased from 19 percent in FY86 to 32 percent. A lesser increase is
provided for agriculture because of administrative constraints. Table 1
compares the FY86 and FY87 current budgets.
Table 1: TREASURY BUDGETS, FY86 AND FY87
(C million at current prices)
Ministry or Agency        FY86 Budget       FY87 Budget      Percentage Change
Education                    98.3             161.6                   64
Health                       89.5             144.4                   61
Agriculture                  37.5              42.2                   13
Public Works                 77.3              78.0                    1
Armed Forces                 96.3             142.0                   48
Other                       589.6             385.1                  -35
Current expenditure         988.5             953.3                   -4
Debt service                324.4             236.7                  -27
Transfer to investment      136.0             100.0                  -27
Treasury expenditure      1,448.9           1,290.0                  -11
Source: Ministry of the Economy and Finance.
37.      The FY87 budget establishes a limit of C 676 million on wage
payments to civil servants, compared to last year's G 561 million. This
Increase not only reflects salary increases but also the reclassification of
remuneration previously included in other budget categories or paid outside
budgetary channels. The official figure for central Government employment
in early FY86 was 32,400; the actual figure may well have been over 50,000,
however. The Government intends to revies rhe staffing levels of all
ministries and agencies; streamlining has already occurred at the Ministry
of Economy and Finance, the internal revenue service and at CPNAP.
38.      FY87 Public Investment Progra   The size and composition of the
FY87 public investment program were determined by the needs to meet the
local counterpart requirements of projects and to consolidate and
rehabilitate existing and ongoing investments. Unfortunately, the process
began late and was rather disorderly. The attempt to do better than in the
past was, however, genuine and by and large effective. The overall public
investment program is estimated at G 1,140 million, to be financed by public
savings (G 280 million) and concessional external aid (G 860 million).
Likely disbursement; of project aid are still overestimated. However,
considering both the increased level of overall public savings because of
untied aid for budgetary support and improvements in project preparation and
administration, actual disbursements may well result in an overall
implementation rate of about 80 percent, or between G 900-950 million,
consistent with the Government's macroeconomic stabilization target of a



- 12 -
public sector deficit before grants of about seven percent. Table 2
summarizeb the sectoral composition and financing of the program and
compares it with that for FY86.
Table 2: PUBLIC INVESTRENT PROGRhN, FY86 AND FY87
(percentage shares)
FY86 Program        FY87 Program
Total Program Cost (G million)                   1,113               1,140
Financing
Public savings                                    25.5                24.5
Concessional external aid                         74.5                75.5
Sectoral Composition
Agriculture                                       18.5                21.2
Industry, including mining                        11.9                 4.8
Electric power                                    15.0                12.7
Transportation a/                                 10.5                12.2
Telecommunications                                 5.6                11.2
Urban development                                  5.4                 6.5
Water supply                                       6.0                 4.8
Education                                          5.8                 7.1
Health                                            10.5                 9.6
Other sectors                                     10-8                 9.9
Implementation Rate (percent)                     60.3                 80.0
(est.)               (proj.)
Sources: CPNAP; Annex VI.
a! Excludes proposed Cap Haitien airport project (para. 39)
39.      Details on the sectoral composition of the program and the largest
projects are given in Annex VI. In brief, agricultural projects concentrate
on irrigation rehabilitation (including where necessary protection of
associated watersheds), feeder roads and input delivery. Soil conservation
and reforestation are maintained at financially sustainable levels and
increasingl- linked to treecrop rehabilitation or expansion. There are no
new irrigaAion projects in the program. Similarly, there are no investments
to expand the capacity of public industrial enterprises, although there are
some productivity enhancing investments at the public flour mill and cement
factory. Projects to benefit industry are those which improve the physical
infrastructure and public utilities serving the private sector. The
transport data exclude a proposal to construct an international airport at
Cap Haitien. This would represent at most two percent of public investment
in FY87. No cost estimation or feasibility analysis has been carried out
for this project, which has not yet started. The Government does not,
however, intend to use any funds for this project other than those available
to the National Airport Authority from one third of a G 75 user charge
levied on air passengers, about G 5 million per year; no external
concessional or commercial financing will be used. Development expenditure



- 13 -
in the social sectors is concentrated heavily on the completion of ongoing
projects in education, training and health, and on urban development and
water supply.
40.      On the financing side, Treasury development expenditures are almost
exclusively devoted to meeting the counterpart fund requirements of foreign
aided projects. All projects are financed exclusively with concessional
external aid. The program is by and large appropriate for Haiti's
development needs. In addition to this program, the Government has
presented to external donors a list of 26 new projects proposed for external
financing of G 217 million (US$43 million). These modest projects are
within Haiti's absorptive capacity and will be added to the program as
financing is secured.
41.      The Government intends also to continue to strengthen the planning,
budgeting and disbursing of public expenditure through improved procedures,
These will include the elimination of fraudulent wage payments at the
Ministry of Public Health and Population, the improvement of recurrent
budgeting at the Ministry of National Education, and the preparation of the
public investment program for FY88. This last will be based on a joint
review with IDA staff of actual progress made in the first nine months of
FY87 and of preliminary proposals for FY88, and will start much earlier than
has previously been the custom.
F. Public Enterprises
42.      Policy toward public enterprises has undergone a radical change.
There were in early 1986 five major public industrial enterprises:
Entreprise Nationale des Oleagineux (ENAOL), a vegetable oil mill; two sugar
mills, Usine Sucriere Nationale de Darbonne (USND) and Usine Sucriere du
Nord (USN); Ciment d'Haiti, a cement plant; and La Minoterie, a flour mill.
All five used to enjoy trade privileges which, in each case, protected
grossly inefficient operations and enabled financial procedures inconsistent
with sound business practices. Annual real resource losses were equivalent
to almost four percent of GDP during FY82-85, a period in which the Haitian
economy never grew by more than one per cent per year. In addition, the two
sugar mills and the vegetable oil mill incurred heavy financial losses. To
stem and eventually reverse this economic and financial waste, the
Government has combined the closure and restructuring of enterprises with
market liberalization and the introduction of financial monitoring.
43.      ENADL. This enterprise, which produced semi-refined vegetable oil
from oilseeds by crushing and solvent extraction, was never economic. Since
beginning operations in 1981, it had a negative balance of payments impact
of about US$16 million each year. The scale of the crushing and solvent
extraction was too small to be economic; the plant also carried out second
stage refining to fully refined oil, a process already amply catered for in
Haiti through the existence of six other private refiners.
44.      The mill was accordingly closed on July 31, 1986.  The
approximately 300 employees were offered either generous severance pay or
the option to form a private cooperative to run the factory; about 60



- 14 -
percent opted for the former, each receiving about nine months' salary. The
remainder, Including most of ENAOL's previous managers, will lease the plant
from the Government for 25 years at a nominal rent. If the cooperative is
to survive, it will have to adapt to a highly competitive market
environment: the Government has pledged not to grant It any subsidies,
privileges or loan guarantees. Moreover, the market for vegetable oils has
been liberalized: ENAOL's import monopoly was dissolved with the company
itself; licencing requirements for importation have been eliminated, and a
tariff of 20 percent has been imposed on vegetable oil Imports.
45.      USND and USE. Until mid-1986. Haiti had four operating sugar mills,
two private and two public. The two latter, USND and USN, operated at a
loss despite the high price of US$0.24 per lb paid for raw sugar at the
factory gate and the low price of US$13 per ton paid for cane. If prices
and costs are adjusted to reflect long term international values, then
neither mill is economically viable even under highly favorable assumptions
concerning raw material supply and efficiency. USND was built directly by
the state in 1982; the equipment was supplied on a turnkey basis at prices
well above those prevailing on world markets. Capacity utilization has been
low because of insufficient cane supply, while operating costs were inflated
by a labor force of about 700, some four times as many as required to run
the plant.
46.      The USED mill was therefore closed in July 1986.  The 700 factory
employees were, Like those at ENAOL, offered the choice between
indemnization and the formation of a cooperative to run the mill; all opted
for the former, again receiving about nine months' salary. The plant would
in any case have required between G 10-20 million of expenditure on
rehabilitation and maintenance to reopen and could not have been operated
for the FY87 harvest. Farmers in the surrounding Leogane plain, who
,reviously supplied the mill, can either sell their cane to the small
nkrtisanal -guildives-, which use it to manufacture cane spirit, or to one of
the private mills which used to purchase cane from the area before USND's
establishment. This mill has both the necessary capacity and logistic
support to absorb the Leogane crop. The Government is actively encouraging
the planting of alternative crops, principally rice and vegetables, in the
Leogane plain to supply the nearby Port-au-Prince market.
47.      The case of USN is sore complex, since the plant is located in the
north of the country, far from the main market and where technically and
economically viable alternatives to cane are difficult to identify. Several
thousand families depend for their livelihood on supplying or working for
the sill. The Government will undertake a study of alternatives to cane,
including improvements in watershed and erosion control which they might
imply. In the meantime, to identify ways in which mill operating expenses
might be reduced, the Government has ordered an independent audit of the
company.
48.      Cieant d'Eaiti. This company, 90 percent Government-owned, supplies
most of Haiti's current consumption of cement, about 250,000 metric tons per
year. Until recently, a licence was required to import cement and a



- 15 -
speciflc tariff of G 300 per metric ton was levied, equivalent to over 100
percent ad valorem at current CIF prices. This gave the company a de facto
monopoly on the production and legal importation of clinker, cement and
by-products. The company was exceedingly inefficient: annual operating
expenditures, net of taxes, were about US$83 per metric ton, some 66 percent
higher than the estimated landed cost of Imported bagged cement. There were
two main reasons for these high costs. First, personnel costs, at some
US$17 per metric ton, were over twice industry standards. This was due both
to excessive employment and high wages and salaries. The plant employed In
September 1986 about 380 persons on a regular basis, plus a similar number
of "temporary" workers, as against efficient industry standards of about
200. It paid unskilled workers more than twice what they would have earned
in the private sector, while some managerial staff earned extremely high
salaries. Second, energy consumption was high due mainly to the plant's
antiquated power generating equipment. New equipment, which may take up to
a year to order and install, will still only reduce costs by about US$8 per
metric ton.
49.      Options under consideration for Ciment d'Haiti include partial
divestiture, and switching from the local production of clinker to its
importation. The Government has approached IFC about the former. The
latter would imply additional investments in storage and handling
facilities, and perhaps also in port works, which would have to be subjected
to detailed engineering studies. For any option for the plant's continued
existence to be economic, it is essential to reduce personnel and
administration costs, which amount to about 25 percent of total operating
expenditures, and to subject the factory to competition from imports. As a
first step, personnel were reduced by 12C by the end of January 1987, and a
detailed plan to reduce the company': u;dge bill has been prepared in
connection with an independent financial and management audit. Second, the
cement market has been liberalized. Import licencing requirements have been
lifted and a tariff of 33 percent placed on imports of bagged and bulk
cement.
50.      La Hinoterie, the Government-owned flour mill, has a monopoly over
both the importation of wheat and the legal sale of wheat flour, except for
specialized products directly imported by bakeries. Wheat cannot be grown
in Haiti's climate. The mill has an effective capacity of about 2.8 million
100-lb bags of flour a year. Production has remained near this figure in
recent years. La Minoterie has been financially profitable, but only
because of a controlled price for wheat flour more than twice border
parity.  La Minoterie's declared operating costs appear to be about 52
percent above the border price for imported flour. However, while there are
undoubtedly major operating inefficiencies and considerable
overstaffing employment of some 1,200 in September 1986 was over ten times
industry standards--the cost data on which this analysis was based is
unreliable. A recent audit was unable to verify the company's financial
statements, partly due to the non-observance of standard accounting
practices, but mainly due to significant abuses. Large sums, in some cases
totalling several million U.S. dollars, had been siphoned off from the
company; moreover, cash management and purchasing and sales procedures were
maintained in a deliberately disorganized fashion to facilitate the
misappropriation of funds. Despite this, there is no doubt the mill could
be run more efficiently aud economically in either the public or the private
sector.



- 16 -
51.      Privatization is under consideration, among other options.  The
Government changed the management team in October 1986 and separated the
Board and the management. The new team, pledged to restructure the company,
has engaged consultants to implement the key recommendations of the audit,
including the preparation of a plan for wage bill reduction, the
consolidation and reorganization of cash and bank accounts, the
establishment of a cost accounting system, and the reform of purchase,
production and sales procedures. By the end of January 1987, the wage bill
at the mill had been reduced by some seven percent.
52.      In addition the Government has liberalized the wheat flour market
by revoking La Minoterie's monopoly on wheat imports. Import competition
will encourage efficiency and facilitate continued supply of the market when
demand increases above La Minoterie's current capacity.
53.      Financial Monitoring. To improve its financial monitoring of all
public enterprises, the Government has established a unit in the Ministry of
Economy and Finance to review the enterprises' budgets, financial results
and the execution of their programmed investments. All public enterprises
will also be subject to regular, independent, external auditing. The
objective of this more systematic financial monitoring is not to increase
state interference in the day-to-day management of the enterprises, but
rather to enable the state, as the shareholder, to ensure that the
enterprises' operations are consistent with the wider aims of economic
policy.
C. Competition and Industrial Incentives
54.      The dynamic export assembly subsector grew up without protection,
though with tax holidays and other incentives. There has, however, been
little linkage between it and the rest of the ecoromy, except through wages,
partly because Haitian local industry has been so inefficient that its
products are not competitive as intermediate inputs to the assembly
subsector.
55.      Starting more than 15 years ago, however, import-substitution
policies followed by balance of payments constraints led to progressively
higher tariffs and barriers to trade as well as to discretionary fiscal
incentives for investment. The resulting trade regime created an incentive
structure for industry producing for the local market that deterred
competition, efficient production and exports. It also led to high domestic
prices for many basic consumption items. There were export taxes on
agricultural products, import quotas and licenses, high import tariffs, an
overly complex and inefficient Customs system and staff, and a complicated
adminkistrative structure facing any investor, exporter or provider of
services to exporters. The arbitrary operation of the system provided
further major disincentives to the establishment of efficient exporting
industries. Industrial firms tended to rely on rents from the narrow,
protected domestic market rather than investing to correct inefficiencies
a



- 17 -
and compete in the international marketplace. As a result, local industrial
production is stagnant with excess capacity, obsolete equipment and low
quality products sold at high prices. Tariffs as high as 180 percent
combined with quantitative restrictions on imports resulted in effective
protection levels averaging about 100 percent, with more than 10 percent of
industTial production enjoying effective protection of over 300 percent.
56.      Until mid-1986, more than 100 goods, most produced locally, were
subject to import quotas and licencing.  In addition, 25 were subject to
price controls fixed by the Ministry of Commerce, mostly for monopolistic
markets such as milk, soap, matches and fish. Import prohibitions affected
several products, such as tomato paste, used cars and used newspapers. De
facto import monopolies were enjoyed by the public industrial enterprises
for vegetable oil, cement, sugar and flour. More than a dozen petty taxes
were also levied on imports by the Customs service, each yielding less than
G 500,000 per annum.
57.      The Investment Code, revised and simplified in 1985, guarantees
various domestic tax holidays and tariff exemptions on imported inputs or
equipment to encourage new investments. As with the trade regime, these
incentives did not stimulate the development of efficient industries but
rather increased the protection of existing firms at the expense of fiscal
revenues, consumer prices and the unemployed. While the assembly industry
created over 40,000 jobs since 1975, local industrial employment stagnated
at around 25,000.
58.      The wide range of customs regimes could not be controlled by a weak
Customs administration, already burdened with complex import documentation
and procedures and afflicted by widespread corruption. Actual collected
import duties bore only a coincidental resemblance to official rates. Total
collections in FY86 corresponded to 12.5 percent of dutiable imports. As
tariff rates rose, contraband increased; it is now virtually endemic.
59.      To lower prices, reverse past distortions and stimulate the
economy, the Government embarked in July 1986 on a thorough program to
liberalize trade, stimulate competition and revise the incentive structure.
Its objective is a stable, neutral incentive system to channel resources
toward competitive rather than rent-seeking activities. The narrow domestic
market means that industrial expansion has to be driven by exports. The
Government is thus progressively reducing the average level of effective
protection and harmonizing its distribution across sectors through various
reforms. Lower tariffs will also be easier to collect than the previous
complex system.
60.      Quantitative Restrictions. In July 1986, the Government reduced the
number of products subject to licensing, quotas or prohibitions from lll to
35. In December 1986, it abrogated the import licensing and quota law. No
import monopoly remains in effect. Two products are restricted for sanitary
reasons: used newspapers and used clothes. A new import licensing law,
without formal ceilings, was introduced for seven agricultural products:
rice, maize, millet, beans, sugar, chicken parts and porkmeat parts.



- 18 -
61.      Tariffs.  The quantitative restrictions removed in July 1986 were
replaced by ad valorem tariffs averaging about 20 percent with a maximum of
40 percent. At the same time, specific tariffs were replaced with ad
valorem ones or ad valorem tariffs were lowered for approximately 300 of the
2,000 tariff positions. In February 1987, following the abrogation of the
remaining quantltative restrictions, the Government implemented a complete
revision of the entire tarlff structure. All specific tariffs were replaced
with ad valorem ones. With five exceptions (rice, maize, millet, flour and
petroleum), rates range between 0 and 40 percent. Their application takes
Into account the ending of quantitative restrictions. Exemptions allowed by
the Investment Code will be ended by December 1987. Medical supplies and
agricultural imports are exempted.
62.      The cascading of the rates followed a physical input/output rule
rather than the necessities of the existing industrial base to avoid as far
as possible ex ante negative protection or sectoral biases. CDosumer and
final goods are subject to a maximum rate of 30 percent whereas equipment,
raw materials and some inputs are subject to 10 percent. A 5 percent rate
was used to provide a little protection to locally produced essential
intermediate goods (such as packaging, cans, and metal working) without
overburdening downstream industries. The targeted average tariff rate is 20
percent.
63.      The level of effective protection for existing firms has been
drastically reduced by these measures from an average of over 100 percent to
below 40 percent; 95 percent of industrial firms now have less than 60
percent effective protection. The state of Haitian trade statistics and
customs data and the prevalence of contraband make it impossible t) predict
accurately the likely impact of the trade regime changes on either the
balance of payments or fiscal revenues. Insofar as lower protection should
discourage contraband, however, both recorded imports and fiscal revenues
may well increase.
64.      In addition to these major changes, the Government is streamlining
the various Customs procedures and rationalizing petty taxes on trade.
Import notifications are now processed quickly and automatically at the
Ministry of Couerce and Industry.  Customs clearance procedures are being
simplified. Further institutional strengthening of the Customs will,
however, be necessary. An administrative charge of one percent of CIF value
has been extended to all imports except pharmaceuticals and petroleum to
cover the costs of an independent, foreign firm that Is responsible for
import verification. Petty taxes on imports and exports will be eliminated
by the end of FY87. The maximum tariff for imports from non-GATT countries
is being reviewed.
65.      Investment Code. The Government intends to revise the Investment
Code to harmonize with the above measures. In particular, general
exemptions of import duties will no longer be available and existing ones
will be progressively eliminated. Eligibility criteria will be neutral in
terms of sector, years in business, value added content and market shexe.



- 19 -
66.      Price Controls.  The Ministry of Commerce aind Industry has
elimlnated its price control office. Price controls remain in effect for
very few products, notably sugarcane. sugar and petrolcum products.
67.      Export Promotion.  The Government Is also reducing the bias against
exports. Taxes on agricultural exports are being progressively reduced
(Pert I1.H). In addition to the revised Investment Code, the Government
intends to implement an endorsable drawback system by the end of 1987 to
reduce anti-export bias. Export promotion is being Btepped Lip and, as
noted, a new textile agreement has been reached with the United States.
68.      Restructuring Asslstance.  The Government is making available both
technical and financial assistance to industrial firms that wish to
restructure to operate in the new incentive envi:onment. The Industrial
Development Fund (FDI) has been charged with this responsibility; a program
of technical assistance has already begun, offering diagnostic surveys to
enterprises to advise on priority areas for restructuring and following this
up with detailed consulting services and credit to finance new investments.
B. AFiculture
69.      The stagnation of agriculture, its declining ability to satisfy
minimum nutrition requirements, and the loss of non-renewable natural
resources (Part I), are major preoccupations of the Government. Half the
mountain land, which accounts for 60 percent of Haiti's total area, has a
slope greater than 400 and is suitable ecologically only for forest
cover. Nevertheless, much of the forest has been removed for energy and to
permit cultivation. Farm technologies are rudimentary. The topography,
small size and scattered location of most farm plots offer little scope for
mechanization. Investments such as reforestation and terracing are
logistically difficult, because of the priority given by farmers to food
crops, the insecurity of tenure in many places, and the sheer inmensity of
the erosion problem. The lowland plains represent about 15 percent of the
total land area; 90,000 ha are irrlgated. Most systems are in disrepair,
however, as a result of inadequate operation and maintenance. Watershed
protection is virtually nonexistent, leading to the siltation of irrigation
channels after heavy rains.
70.      Overcoming Haiti's agricultural crisis will take much time and
investment. Referas should aim at increasing productivity, production and
exports; improving nutrition; preserving non-renewable resources; increasing
fiscal revenues; and lEproving equity. The present Government has made a
determined start In addressing problems of pricing, policy-induced rents and
deficient public services to agriculture. Much remains to be done, however,
for many years to come.
71.      Pricing.  Prices have been affected by four major Government
interventions: (a) prices and tax levels established at food processing
plants for wheat, sugar aud vegetable oils (Part II.F); (b) export taxes;
(c) quantitative import restrictions and tariffs; and (d) administered



- 20 -
farmgate prices for sugarcane and cotton. Their combined effects have been
to tax agrlcultural producers--mostly in coffee, sugarcnne and cotton--and
consumers--mostly in sugar, wheat flour, rice and vegetable oils.
72.      Despite coffee's comparative advantage over maize and sorghum, it
has been subject to an export tax of around 25 percent of FOB prices.
lPrices of maize, sorghum, rice  nnd wheat flour have hovered in receont years
At some 20-30 percent above Import prices btcause controls resulted In
negligible imports of the first three while La Minoterie required high flour
prices for financinl viability and the extraction of rents. By August 1986,
farsgnte prices for maize were around 100 percent higher than CIF Import
prices, 30 percent for rice and 40 percent for wheat flour. Those
policies--of supporting" grain and flour prices above world levels and
suppressing coffee prices below world levels--have had negative results. In
the competition for scarce hillside land, many farmers have replaced their
coffee trees with maize and sorghum, exacerbating soil erosion.
73.      The previous Government made a hesitant effort to deal with the
coffee export tax, reducing it to about 22 percent by 1985. It also
eliminated the 5 percent export tax on essential oils in 1985. The present
Government has moved more forcefully, reducing the coffee export tax to 10
percent, and eliminating the export taxes on cocoa (6%) and sisal fibre
(G 1.25 per 100 kg). Provided overall revenue and expenditure performance
remain satisfactory, the Government intends to eliminate entirely the coffee
export tax by the end of FY87.
74.      The Government reduced the excise tax on wheat flour in February
1986, has permitted wheat flour imports, and has replaced import quotas with
import licensing restricted to seven products: rice, maize, millet, beans,
sugar, chicken parts and porkmeat parts. Even before this, domestic grain
prices fell substantially in the second half of 1986, following the
unprecedented decline in international prices (and pervasive contraband) and
possibly the strengthening of the Gourde on the parallel foreign exchange
market. The Government also intends to free the producer price of cotton.
75.      Policy-induced rents.  Past Government policies for State lands
created rents for a privileged few, rather than capturing them for the
fisc. Substantial areas of public lands were leased at nominal rates to
influential individuals, who in turn subleased them to small farmers or sold
the leaue rights, both at market rates. The law provides that annual rents
on State lands are to be assessed at six percent of the fair market land
value. Yet most primary leases have been assessed at G 15-60 per ha,
compared to fair market rental assessments of G 250-2,000. The Government
is thus foregoing some G 100-200 million per annum in revenues. The
Government intends during FY87 introduce a scheme to raise rents on all new
and renewed leases according to the fair market value of the land.
76.      Credit.  Only 10-15 percent of the rural populatipn has access to
institutional credit. Past primary sources have beea the Agricultural
Credit Bureau (BCA), which lends mainly to smallholders, and the National
Bank for Agricultural and Industrial Development (BNDAI), which has been



- 21 -
geared to medium and large farmers engaged in capital-intensive production,
notably of irrigated rice.
77.      The loan portfolios of both credit agencies have deteriorated.
According to a recent audit, BCA had 6,470 borrowers in August 1986, many
associations each averaging 10 farmers, and a portfolio of G 52 million, 50
percent in arrears. An audit of BNDAI is also underway; arrears on its
portfolio rose from around 45 percent in mid-1985 to 70 percent a year
later. Most of BCA's and BNDAI's arrears are considered uncollectable.
During FY87, the Goveinment intends to close BNDAI and will, with assistance
from the Inter-American Development Bank, establish a new agricultural
credit bank, to Jlclude BNDAI's performing agricultural portfolio.
I. Economdc, Environmental and Social Impact
78.      Economic Impact. The Government's Economic Recovery Program,
especially the elimination of financial imbalances and price distortions, is
having its intended effects. As discussed above, the public sector's
affairs are new more transparently managed, it has reduced its stock of
nonconcessioral debt, the balance of payments is running an overall surplus,
the discount on the Courde on the parallel foreign exchange market has
declined significantly, and consumer prices have dropped. Assembly industry
exports, which fell in the second quarter of FY86, have picked up again.
Confidence is returning and should continue to increase, so long as there is
reasonable political stability. The endorsement of the program by external
donors and the IMF has also provided a powerful boost to confidence,
stimulating private investment and aid flows.
79.      Resources have been freed by the reduced burden of public
enterprises and the more effective management of a leaner public sector. In
the medium term, the public investment program should yield higher returns,
though time and major reforms are still needed. The elimination of the
coffee and other export taxes, the raising of rentals on State lands, and
the reorganization of credit should help to sustain agricultural growth.
Furthermore, as commerce becomes less attractive relative to production--as
trade liberalization reduces opportunities for rent-seeking
activities--Haitian industrial entrepreneurs car be expected to produce more
efficiently for export or to supply the export assembly industries. Above
all, the consumer will benefit from the reduction of economic rents and the
fall in prices of basic consumption goods.
80.      Haiti's economic prospects, like those of most small countries,
also depend heavily on ti.a external factors: market access and international
prices for its exports, and the flow of concessional aid.   While the first
is largely beyond the Government's control, the second is directly linked to
the policies it pursues, as the experience of the early 1980s demonstrated.
Table 3 summar4zes projections of economic indicators through FY90 for two
cases, with and without the Economic Recovery Program; uncertainty about
political developments after February 1988 necessarily makes them very
tentative after FY88.



Table 3; ECONOMIC PROJECTIONS WITH AND WIThOUT RECOVERY PROGRAM
(percent)
Average Annual Growth Rate                            Share of GDP at Market Prices
(Z at constant price.)                                   CZ at current prices)
FY76-51   FY81-86  FYS5-90  FY55-90                  FY76      FYSI      nYSB   7Y90      FY9
WLth    Without                                   (eSt.)  With    Without
Progran  Program                                           Program  Program
Gross Domestic Produict                       3.4       -0.6       4.6     -0.8               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                                 0.8       -16      5.5      -0.7                38.4      33.8      32.1     33.2      32.2
Indtstry                                   6.2        0.2       5.1      -1.0                19.4     22.2      23-0      23.4      22:S
Other                                       4.3       -0.2      3.7      -0.8                42.2      44.0      44.9     43.4      45.0
Consumption                                   3.9       -1.2       4.4      0.6                93.1      98-3      93.9      93.7    100.1
Cross Domestic Inveatment                     6.3       -3.7      13.9      -3.1               15.8      16.9      12.1      17.0      11.0
PLibI Lc                                    9.7      -9.8      15.4      -1.'                 9.5      11.9       6.2      9.1       6.0
Privae                                      0.1       -4.6     12.4      -5.0                 6.3       5.0       5.9       7.9      5.0
Exports of CNFS                               3.2        0.1       4.4      0.9                16.8      16.8      13.8      13.7      14.6
Coffee                                      4.9      -0.3       7.1       4.7                 5.0       2.2       2.6      2.1       2.3
Other Agricultural Coods                     ,.         ..      2.7       0.5                 2.5       2.0       1.5       1.4      1.6
Assembly Industry                                               6.2        -                  2.8       5.4       5.       5.6       5.3
Imports of CNFS                               6.8       -4.4      9.5       5.3               -25.7    -32.0    -20.3    -24.4    -25.7                     I
Gross National Savings                      -32.2       -7.8      14.5    -69.2                 6.1       0.7       4.9       7.2      4.6
Balance of Payments
Current Account                                                                              -6.5    -11.3       -4.8     -5.8      -6.6
Public Sector Deficit a/                                                                       -7.6    -12.9       -5.2      -6.0    -10.0
Debt ServiceIODP
Including IMF                                                                                 1.2       1.7       3.4       1.3       1.6
Excluding IMF                                                                                 1.2       1.4       2.3       1.0       1.2
Debt BervicelEaports of Goods I NFS
Including IMF                                                                                 6 9      9.9      24.4      11.0      12.5
ExcludLng IMF                                                                                 6.9      8.4      16.4        8.2       9.3
aI Sefore grants.
12-Dec-86



- 23 -
81.      The With Progra, case assumes improved allocative efficiency and
the restoration of confidence among both the private sector and Haiti's
external aid donors; details of the projection are included in Annex I.
Macroeconomic stabilization would remain effective and GDP could grow at an
average annual rate of 4.6 percent in FY86-90. Lower input and consumer
prices resulting from the reform of the trade regime would stimulate the
economy while domestic industry would restructure in line with the new
Incentives and would, by the end of the period, start to increase its
exports. Subsequent growth would be fueled by new investment, restoring
investment's share of GDP to the level of the early 1980s but with a much
greater proportion coming from the private sector. Public investment could
rise from about six to about nine percent of GDP, financed by increased aid
flows, and would become more efficient, being focused on the rehabilitation
and expansion of the existing capital stock; the neglect of maintenance
would slowly be overcome with the provision of more adequate recurrent
funding. By FY90, the public sector deficit before aid could be about six
percent of CDP, financed entirely with concessional aid.
82.      Export growth and foreign aid would finance the increased imports
resulting from increased investment and trade liberalization. The current
account deficit would widen slightly from the artificially low FY86 level
but could be easily financed by foreign aid.  Reserves would begin to
increase and should turn positive during FY87 for the first time since
FY80.  Assembly industry exports could expand by over six percent per annum
in FY86-90 due to restored confidence and the new textile agreement with the
United States. Coffee production would ride the peak of its agronomic cycle
in FY87 and FY88, benefiting also from relatively high world prices, and the
reduction and elimination of the coffee export tax would promote replanting
and sustained export growth averaging seven percent per annum.
83.      The Witbout Program case, by contrast, would be characterized after
FY87 by a return to the ineffective policies and zero growth of the early
1980s. This is not likely in FY87 because of the anticipated coffee crop
and the relatively high levels of aid promised at a November 1986 meeting of
the Haiti Subgroup of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development. Despite good coffee yields and prices in FY87, agricultural
production would weil fall because price disincentives would remain and
rehabilitation of neglected irrigation systems would not occur. Local
industry would continue to stagnate in the small protected domestic market,
and assembly industry confidence would likely flag. Public investment and
non-wage recurrent spending could very well be crowded out by popular
pressure for public sector wage and employment increases. Increased public
sector employment would become an obstacle to more effective public
administration and would offset restructuring efforts at public enterprises,
which would again become a major drain on the economy.   The public sector
deficit would widen, perhaps to 10 percent of CDP, and external concessional
aid would be inadequate to finance it because policy-based external aid,
which accounts for some 30 percent of projected aid inflows in the With
Program case, would be lost and project aid disbursements would lag. The
deficit would be financed by Central Bank credit which would lead anew to
financial disequilibrium, inflation and a loss of confidence. Private
investment could drop back to the very low level of FY81. While exports
would stagnate, imports would continue to increase, likely provoking



- 24 -
a balance of payments crisis and the continued loss of reserves. Such a
collapse of the Economic Recovery Program would not only leave the economy
in recession, it would undermine the basis for future growth.
84.      Neither case considers the exchange rate.  The Government considers
it of paramount importance to maintain the fixed parity of five Gourdes to
the U.S. dollar. In the transition to new democratic institutions the
Government judges that the preservation of this rate provides a firm anchor
for fiscal and monetary policy in the imediate future. Moreover, in the
late 1970s this fixed exchange rate regime, together with the pursuit of
prudent fiscal and credit policies, created a climate of confidence which
led to the establishment of the assembly industry. For several years
beginning in 1979, the link with U.S. dollar led the Gourde to appreciate in
real effective terms against the currencies of Haiti's main trading
partners. This had little effect on Haiti's export performance because the
domestic wage structure remained largely market-determined and highly
competitive. Recently, as noted, real wages have increased as prices have
fallen, without affecting Haiti's international competitiveness. Indeed,
aside from protection, the principal obstacle to expanded exports has been
market access, a situation now improved with the new U.S. textile
agreement. Horeover, the recent depreciation of the dollar against other
major currencies has brought about a decline in the real effective value of
the Gourde of over 10 percent during the last 12 months, offsetting to an
important extent the earlier rise. However, the Government recognizes that
its commitment to trade liberalization while maintaining a stable exchange
rate implies the maintenance of demand management policies to avoid
excessive growth in imports.
85.      Envilronmentnl Impact.  The reduction and ultimate elimination of
the coffee export tax should increase the incentives for hill farmers to
maintain and replant soil-binding coffee trees and decrease those to grow
crops like maize that contribute to erosion. This shift in relative prices
will be complemented with several programs, financed with external aid, to
improve coffee yields and promote reforestation.
86.      Social Tupact.  The immediate adverse social consequences from the
program affect the employees of public enterprises that are shut or
restructured, and for some employees of private industrial firms that may
not prove viable once protection is reduced. These direct consequences will
be more than offset by resulting benefits to Haitians as a whole, especially
the very poorest members of the society.
87.      Severance pay of about nine months salary has been provided to
employees of the ENAOL and USND factories. According to a recent study,
less than a dozen of the approximately 200 industrial firms producing for
the local market (averaging 90 employees each) may find it difficult to
survive the reforms of the trade regime. These are largely firms whose
products are not economic in the Haitian context, such as milk processing,
metal working and packaging. Technical and financial assistance would be
available to facilitate the restructuring of the vast majority of firms that
are not at present competitive internationally but have the potential to be
so.



- 25 -
88.      Against these negative social consequences, there are five major
social benefits from the Economic Recovery Program. First, real resources
equivalent to some two percent of GDP are being released by the reform of
public enterprises for investment in productive activities and the creation
of productive employment. Second, the reform of these enterprises, the
reduction of excise taxes, and the reform of the trade regime have already
lowered the cost of living for the Haitian consumer, particularly the
poorest, without hurting farmers, especially as prices of basic consumption
goods fell; the retail price of vegetable oil has dropped by 40 percent
since February 1986 and that of flour by 11 percent. Decreases may also be
anticipated in the price of cement and hence in the cost of construction.
Lower consumer prices not only improve welfare, especially of the very
poorest, they raise real wages and so reduce the pressure to increase wages
and help maintain Haiti's international competitiveness. Third, small scale
industrial enterprises now stand to benefit from the advantages, such as low
tariffs on inputs, that larger firms have enjoyed in the past; the trade
reform thus eliminates many monopolies and barriers to entry. Fourth, the
program should increase the income of over a million people who depend on
coffee as their principal cash crop and should result in the encouragement
of new directions for farmers locked into the vicious poverty circle of
sugarcane production. Fifth, equity will be improved by the reform of the
income tax, especially by stepped-up collection efforts and by the capturing
of former private rents through the trade regime reforms and the raising of
State land rents toward market levels.
PART III - THE PROPOSED PROM=C
A. History
89.      The proposed project would support the Government's Economic
Recovery Program and complement IDA's Economic Recovery Credit (Report No.
P-4411-HA), approved by the Executive Directors on March 24, 1987. It was
prepared during an intensive dialogue with the Government since May 1986,
based on IDA's economic, public expenditure and agricultural reports.
Appraisal was completed in October 1986 and negotiations were held in
Washington, D. C. between March 23-27, 1987. The Haitian delegation was led
by Mr. Leslie Delatour, Minister of Economy and Finance. Annex III is a
supplementary project data sheet.
B. Objectives
90.      The proposed project has three objectives.  First, it aims to
strengthen the Government's capacity to carry out its Economic Recovery
Program, including several of the actions agreed as conditions of release of
the second tranche of the IDA Economic Recovery Credit. Annex V shows the
relationship among the Government's Program, the IDA Economic Recovery
Credit and the proposed project. Second, it would develop information about
and help develop a strategy to deal with Haiti's deteriorating natural
environment. Third, it would assist on a priority



- 26 -
basis those private manufacturing enterprises affected by the reform of the
trade regime to take appropriate measures to raise their productivity and be
able to produce at internationally competitive prices; it would also assist
private firms willing to develop export activities and otherwise interested
in improving performance.
C. Descriptlon
91.      Three principal components would correspond to the objectives
above. A Public Sector Management component would strengthen the
Government's implementation of its Economic Recovery Program and the
progrmming, control and monitoring of public expenditure. An Environmental
Studies component would assess the degradation of Haiti's natural
environment and propose policies and investments to improve It. An
Industrial Restructuring and Development component would help manufacturing
industry adapt to the new set of incentives that are now in place following
the trade regime reform. In addition, a very small fourth component would
finance studies and technical assistance still to be determined.
92.      Public Sector Management (US$1,170,000)..  The project would finance
technical assistance in several areas of the Government's Economic Recovery
Program. A full-time macroeconomic adviser would assist the Minister of
Economy and Finance with macroeconomic management and in developing a
training program for relevant staff; draft terms of reference are in Annex
VIII.A. Under the guidance of a visiting senior adviser, a program of
assistance, training and purchase of computer equipment would be implemented
in the Ministry of Economy and Finance (NEF) and the National Promotion and
Public Service Commission (CPNAP) to improve the programming, monitoring and
control of public expenditure. The senior adviser would provide assistance
with development expenditure budgeting, current Treasury expenditure
budgeting, end the public sector wage bill. A full-time senior project
economic adviser would help improve development project selectlon and
monitoring. Draft terms of reference for these public expenditure
consultants are in Annex VIII.B. In addition the project would finance the
expansion of MEF's mini-computer capacity and also microcomputer hardware
and software for CPNAP. An advance from the IDA Project Preparation
Facility has been extended to the Government to permit the purchase of a new
mini-computer and the early installation of the macroeconomic adviser and
the senior project economic adviser.
93.      Closely linked to the public expenditure subcomponent would be a
study of public service employment and pay designed to assist the Government
reorganize and make more effective the civil service; draft terms of
reference are in Annex VIII.C. Assistance would also be provided to the new
MEF unit charged with the financial monitoring of public enterprises; Annex
VIII.D contains draft terms of reference. A limited amount of consulting
services would aid the Government decision-making on the electric power
plant and on other aspects of the restructuring of Cinent d'Haiti; terms of
reference would be agreed with IDA. Consultants would advise on the
introduction of a trade drawback scheme to complement the refonm of the
trade regime; draft terms of reference are in Annex VIII.E. In agriculture,
consultants would advise and



- 27 -
assist with the introduction of a scheme to raise rentals on State land. and
would study'alternatives to sugarcane production in the Flamne du Nord, the
area around the uneconomic USN sugar mill (Annex VIII-F and G). The entire
Public Sector Management component would be managed by MEF, working closely
with CPNAP and, where applicable, the Ministries of Commerce and Industry
and of Agriculture and Rural Development. To assist initial implementation
and subsequent operation of this component, the Government will hire an
international consultant to aid MEF In project startup and management and in
the selection of consultants. The hiring of the international consultant is
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit. Approximately 74
staffmonths of consultant services would be required, with all work to start
as soon as possible and be completed by June 1988.
94.     EHvironmental Studies (US$206,000). The project would finance a
study designed to assess the extent of land degradation in Haiti and
recommend lnterventions to arrest and reverse it, using an approach which
integrates environmental and natural resource management directly Into
economic and social policy. The results should provide pollcy options and
specific investment proposals to the Government, the latter of potential
interest also to external aid donors. This study would be managed by NEF
with extensive collaboration from other relevant ministries, particularly
the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Approximately 18 staff-
months of consultant services would be required; the study should take 6-9
months to complete. Annex IX contains draft terms of reference.
95*      Industrial Restructuring ad DeRelopment (US$1,977,000).  This
project component would finance: (a) additional operating costs of the
Industrial Development Fund (FDI) to provide technical assistance to
identify restructuring and development needs of private industrial
enterprises-this will include hiring additional contract staff (market
specialist and a production engineer), increased administrative expenses and
a two-year extension of the existing contract of a consultant to the FDI
management; and (b) outside consultants who, with FDI coordination and
support, would diagnose and prepare restructuring and development plans for
the enterprises that wish to obtain such assistance. Following the
Government's reform of the trade regime, FDI has initiated a media campaign
to inform Industrial enterprises of the services it can provide. In
addition, it has contacted selected enterprises most likely to be affected
by the trade reforms to obtain direct knowledge of the problems they face
and ascertain if they would be interested in technical assistance.
96.      The first phase of such assistance would consist of a diagnosis,
provided free of charge, designed to assess an enterprise's strengths and
weaknesses and to indicate functional areas where an in-depth study is
warranted. This phase would be conducted by FDI staff and outside
consultants and last a total of up to four months. About 80 of the 200
enterprises manufacturing for the domestic market have requested a
diagnosis. This diagnostic phase has already started, with financing from
the IDA Project Preparation Facility. On the basis of the diagnosis,
consultants would proceed for each firm that so wishes with an in-depth
analysis of identified problems and develop a restructuring plan for the
enterprise's consideration. Such a plan might include financial
restructuring and divestiture; changes in products and/or activities;
changes in the scale of production; product quality improvement; technical
rehabilitation or upgrading; reorganization of the production process;



- 28 -
changes in management structure; formulation of new marketing strategies;
and employee training. FDI would manage this component which would require
approximately 45 staffmonths of consultant services and last 12-15 months
through 1988. Annex X contains draft terms of reference for these two
phases.
97.      In order to help enterprises finance the in-depth studies, a
Technical Assistance Fund (TAF) would be established within FDI. The TAF
would be simply a separate account of FDI used to finance up to 80 percent
of the costs of individual in-depth studies contracted to outside
consultants, the enterprises providing the balance of the financing to FDI.
FDI would select the consulting firm that would carry out the In-depth
studies and would sign with them, before October 31, 1987, a contract
Indicating the type of assistance to be provided to the firms. In addition,
FDI has agreed that it would sign, with each individual enterprise, a
contract which will specify, among other requirements, that the firm will
pay 20% of the study cost to FDI before such study is started. The 80% part
of the cost of the study advanced by the TAF would be refinanced from future
FDI subloans for investment projects in the event the restructuring or
development plans result in investment loans. These requirements will be
specified in the agreements to be signed between FDI and the enterprises.
The TAF would be established as a revolving account for a duration of five
years. If there were no subloan, the cost of an individual in-depth study
would be absorbed by the TAF and by the enterprise. Agreement has been
reached that, as a condition of disbursement for the In-depth Study
subcomponent of the Industrial Restructuring and Development component, the
standard contract to be signed with each enterprise would have been approved
by the Association. In addition, FDI has agreed that it will not authorize
in-depth studies in any enterprise unless the respective contract (providing
for the 20Z advance payment and the eventual replenishment of the TAF) has
been signed.
98.      In addition to these elements, this component of the proposed
project would also refinance advances under the Project Preparation Facility
for its preparation and initiation and for a study of industrial
incentives. The incentive study, now completed, was an input to the
Government's reform of the trade regime.
99.      Other Studies and Tecbnical Assistance (US$97,000).  During
preparation of this project, the Government expressed interest in receiving
assistance in other related areas of economic managemeat, including special
studies of the financial sector, the scope for cotton and textile
development and the improvement of economic and social statistics and the
national accounts. Broad outlines of these other studies and their
relationship with the proposed project were discussed during negotiations.
The Government has indicated that it will send specific proposals to the
Association by July 1, 1987. Additional technical assistance to support the
other components of the project could also be undertaken. This would be
done upon mutual agreement between the Government and IDA on the priority of
the proposed technical assistance, its specific objectives, the scope of
work involved and the expected output.



- 29 -
D. Implewntation and hduinistratlon
100.     HEF would be responsible for administering the Public Sector
Management, Environmental Studies and Other Studies and Technical Assistance
components. It would coordinate as appropriate with other involved
ministries, notably those of Commerce and Industry, Agriculture and Rural
Development, and with CPNAP. In view of the complexity of these three
components of the proposed project and the large number of consulting
contracts they would generate, the Government has agreed, as conditions of
effectiveness, to appoint a NEF Project Manager with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA and to hire an international consultant to
assslt HEF in project startup and management and in the selection of
consultants. The Government has also agreed that as a condition of
disbursement for these components, it will hire a firm acceptable to IDA to
act as agent for the ministry in the hiring of consultants and the servicing
of their contracts.
101.     The Central Bank_/ acting through FDI would be responsible for
providing and administering the technical assistance for Industrial
Restructuring and Development. The Government would transfer the Industrial
Restructuring and Development component of the proposed Credit to the
Central Bank for FDI use as a grant and assume its repayment to IDA. It has
been agreed that the contract providing for such transfer would be signed as
a condition of disbursement of this component. FDI was established in 1981
as a special fund in the Central Bank, to provide medium and long-term
financing for private industrial enterprises. IDA extended to Haiti for the
benefit of FDI a first Industrial Credit and FDI has proved competent and
dynamic. Consultants contracted by FDI would assist it in carrying out the
diagnostic phase and would undertake the in-depth studies and prepare
project proposals for enterprise restructuring and development.
102.     The Public Sector Management and Environmental Studies components
are expected to be completed by mid-1988; the Industrial Restructuring
and Development component by end-1988. The Project Manager and the
Director-General of FDI would send to IDA quarterly progress reports. In
addition, progress would be monitored by IDA through regular supervision
missions. These would be relatively intense initially to ensure that the
project gets off to an effective quick start and, in particular, that the
Public Sector Management sub-components are underway which are essential for
successful implementation of the second tranche release conditions of the
Economic Recovery Credit. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1988.
E. Cost and Fin^aning
103.     The total project cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at
about US$3.5 million with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$2.4
million (Annex VII). The proposed credit of US$3.0 million would finance
all of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project and 57 percent of
local costs. It would include the refinancing of two advances from the
1/ Banque de la Republique d'Haiti.



- 30 -
Project Preparation Facility of US$0.5 and US$0.7 million. Contributions
from the Government and FDI in the form of counterpart staff, offices and
logistical support (US$0.3 million) and from private industry (US$0.16
million) would finance the rest of the project. Nb price contingencies have
been included in view of the short expected life of the project. Other
contingencies could, If necessary, be met through reallocation from the
Other Studies and Technical Assistance component.
104.     The Government would be the Borrower of the proposed IDA Credit of
US$3.0 million. Of this, about US$1.0 million would finance the Public
Sector Management component; about US$0.2 million the Environmental Studies
component; and US$1.7 million would finance the Industrial Restructuring and
Development component. About US$0.1 million would remain available for
Other Studies and Technical Assistance to be agreed upon with the
Government. Of the US$3.0 million IDA Credit, US$1.2 million would be used
to refinance two advances from the Project Preparation Facility for (i)
preparation of reforms in public expenditure and public enterprises; (li)
technical assistance and diagnostic studies; and (iii) an Industrial
incentives study.
F. Procurement, Disbur seent, Accounts and Anditing
105.     Consultants would be recruited In accordance with IDA guidelines;
contracts and final terms of reference for each subcomponent of the project
would be approved by IDA prior to the appointment of consultants, Draft
terms of reference have been agreed between the Government and IDA (Annexes
VIII, IX and X). Consultants' contracts would include specific timetables
for the completion of different phases of their work. Procurement would be
by international shopping on the basis of quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers for microcomputers and associated hard and software.
All packages for computer equipment over US$50,000 would be subject to IDA's
prior review of procurement documentation. The balance of the contracts
would be subject to random post-review by IDA after contract award.
.
106.     Disbursements for the Public Sector MNanagement, Environmental
Studies and Other Studies and Technical Assistance components would be for
100% against expenditures on consulting services, both foreign and local,
and 100% against expenditures on computer equipment. Appointment of a
Servicing Agent would be a condition of disbursement for these components
(para. 100). In addition, the credit would refinance an advance from the
Project Preparation Facility for expenditures pertaining to computer
equipment and consultant services eligible for financing under the Credit.
Disbursements for the Industrial Restructuring and Development component
would cover: (i) 100I of the consulting contracts for a two-year period for
a management consultant to FDI's Director General, and for a marketing
specialist and production engineer for FDI; (ii) 80% of financing of
consulting contracts for the In-depth Study phase for prediagnosed
industrial firms; and (iii) 37% (not to exceed SDR. 63,000) of FDI's
operating budget for FY87 that has been reviewed and approved by IDA. The
signing of an agreement between the Republic of Haiti and the Central Bank,
specifying the terms for implementing and transferring the Credit proceeds
earmarked for the Industrial Restructuring and Development component, would
be a condition of disbursement of this component (para. 101). It was



- 31 -
agreed that the Association would approve the standard contract to be signed
with each enterprise for the in-depth studies as a condition of disbursement
of this component. Furthermore, the opening of the account for the
Technical Assistance Fund by the FDI would be also a condition of
disbursement of the Industrial Restructuring and Development component
(para. 97). In addition, this component of the Credit would refinance an
advance from the Project Preparation Facility covering expenditures
pertaining to the following items which are eligible for financing under
this Credit: (1) 100X of the consultants' contracts and administrative
expenditures related to the Industrial Incentives Study; (ii) 100% of the
FDI consultants' contracts for diagnostic studies of selected Individual
enterprises; and (iii) advances made to FDI for other eligible disbursement
items.
107.     In order to accelerate disbursements, a special account (revolving
fund) with an initial deposit of SDR 396,000 corresponding to the average
four month disbursement needs of the project would be established in a
private commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Two sub-accounts would be
established, for MEF and for FDI. Replenishments would be made either once
a month if expenditures exceed US$100,000, or once a third of the special
account is used, whichever is sooner. Disbursements against equipment
contracts valued up to US$50,000 equivalent, against FDI's 802 share of
consultant contracts for the in-depth studies and against FDI's operating
expenses would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditure; supporting
documentation would be retained by the executing agencies and made available
for review by IDA supervision missions and external auditors. Payments
against all other consultant contracts and against equipment contracts
amounting to US$50,000 equivalent and above would require full
documentation. The Closing Date is expected to be Marcb 31, 1989.
108.     MEF and FDI would maintain records of all transactions under the
credit in accordance with sound accounting practices. At the end of each
Haitian fiscal year, all accounts, including the special account, would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the Audit reports
would be submitted to IDA no later than four months after the end of the
fiscal year. Audit reports would include a separate opinion with regard to
the claims submitted to IDA on the basis of Statements of Expenditure and
state whether such claims have been effected in accordance with the IDA
Development Credit Agreement.
G. Benefits and Risks
109.     The proposed project would strengthen the Government's ability to
carry out its Economic Recovery Program and thus encourage the restructuring
of the Haitian economy toward the production of exports. It would therefore
complement the IDA Economic Recovery Credit. Several studies would assist
the Government and its successor in tackling the pressing problems of the
efficiency of the public service ano the deterioration of the natural
environment. Technical assistance to private industry should enable a
significant number of firms to adapt to the new incentive structure and
prevent them from closing, reducing the risk of unnecessary unemployment.
110.     There are three principal risks.  First, delays in appointment of
consultants could jeopardize timely implementation. For the Public Sector



- 32 -
Management component, this would be mitigated by the hiring of an
international consultant to assist MEF in project startup and management and
with the selection of consultants, the appointment of a full-time Project
Manager, the use of a private firm to handle the administration of
consultante' contracts, and by intensive IDA supervision, especially at
project startup. For the Industrial Restructuring and Development
component, FDI's experience in handling consultants and the diagnostic
studies already undertaken under the PPF would lessen this risk. In
addition agreement was reached during negotiations to hire by October 31,
1987 a consulting firm to undertake the in-depth studies. Second, there is
a risk that the initial demand for technical assistance under the Industrial
Restructuring and Development component might be overestimated especially if
the increased levels of contraband trade noticeable since September 1986
persist. The Government recognizes that the contraband trade is adversely
affecting the capacity utilization of domestic firms and could undermine the
recent trade reforms. Third, the Government that will take office in
February 1988 could reverse the economic policy reforms and thus reduce the
value of the complementary technical assistance, not implemeniting its
recommendations. However, the studies would be useful for decision making
and their existence may well help reduce this risk and ensure continuity in
economic policy. Besides, implementation of the studies would demonstrate
to the international community the new Government's commitment to economic
reform, which would be a factor in determining support forthcoming from the
donor community.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERAONS AND STRhXG
I11.     Operations.  Since beginning operations in Haiti in 1956, the Bank
Group has extended one loan and 24 credits totalling US$319.0 million
equivalent and IFC has made one investment (US$1.5 million). As of
September 30, 1986, the total of credits outstanding was US$271.4 million
equivalent, of which US$62.0 million equivalent was undisbursed. Annex II
summarizes Bank Group operations in Haiti as of September 30, 1986. Since
then, a US$20.0 million equivalent credit for a transport project and a
US$40.0 million equivalent Economic Recovery Credit have also been
extended. The Bank Group has financed projects in transport (7), power (4),
educativn (4), rural development (2), agricultural rehabilitation (1),
industrial credit (1), ports (1), water supply (1) urban development (1) and
economic recovery (1). A pilot project in forestry is also underway. Some
of these projects have enjoyed cofinancing or parallel financing from the
aid agencies of Canada, France, Germany, and Switzerland. IFC's investment
is for an integrated poultry project.
112.     Overall, project implementation and disbursement performance are
satisfactory. However, a lack of counterpart funds has in the past delayed
IDA disbursements. The establishment of revolving funds in recent projects
has improved this. IDA is in addition carefully monitoring Haiti's
absorptive capacity for external assistance, with particular attention to
projects' local cost counterpart financing requirements.
113.     The Bank also chairs the Caribbean C-roup for Cooperation in
Economic Development, whose Haiti Subgroup provides a framework for
cooperation among donors.



- 33 -
114.     Strategy.  Within the last two years, IDA has prepared an economic
memorandum, an agrlcultural sector study and a public expeaditure review.
These documents identify the major obstacles to economic recovery and the
specific actions needed to achieve and sustain financial stabilization,
reduce resource losses, increase agricultural and industrial production and
exports, save foreign exchange, meet the infrastructure and training needs
of agriculture and industry, increase the efficiency of public institutions
and, for the longer term, improve basic education. A population, health and
nutrition sector report is currently under preparation and Was discussed
with the Government in mid-March, 1987.
115.     The present Government's Economic Recovery Program, described in
Part II, follows closely the principal recommendations of the three recent
reports, all of which were submitted to the new authorities. Consequently,
IDA's program, in close collaboration with the IMF and with other donors
through the Caribbean Group for Cooparation In Economic Development, aims at
supporting the Government's Economic Recovery Program with both policy-based
operations and investment project credits.
116.     Indeed, since May 1986, IDA has been involved in an intensive
policy -!ialogue with the Haitian authorities which has led to four
operations now underway or proposed to provide specific support for the
Economic Recovery Program:
(i) The Government prepared jointly with IMF and IDA staff a Policy
Framework Paper to underpin an IMF Structural Adjustment
Facility Arrangement that was approved by the Executive Board
of the Fund ln December 1986. The paper was discussed by IDA's
Executive Directors meeting as the Comittee of the Whole on
November 18, 1986.
(ii) The Economic Recovery Credit, approved on March 24, 1987.
(iii) The proposed Technical Assistance Project.
(iv) A Industrial Restructuring and Development Project, scheduled
for Board presentation in IDA FY88, which would provide
financial and technical assistance to industrial firms which
need to restructure or invest to operate under the new set of
incentives that the reforms to the trade regime described in
Part IT will establish.
117.     IDA would maintain an active policy dialogue with the Government
through monitoring the Economic Recovery Project and supervising the
proposed Technical Assistance Project. Further policy-based operations are
envisaged as long as an appropriate policy framework remains in place.
Future investment credits now under preparation include electric power and
water supply projects.
118.     IDA's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and outstanding is
estimated at 38 percent as of September 30, 1986. This is high only because
grants constitute a very large share of the external assistance Haiti has
received. IDA's share of external public debt service was about five
percent in FY86.



- 34 -
PART V - 3EL1AfSU WI   TEE IMF AMD WITE DTXI  DO30G8
119.     [IF.  Haiti has been a member of the IMF mince September 1953 under
Article VT!? status. Its current quota I1 SDR 44.1 million. In December
1986 the Executive Board of the Fund approved a throe-year structural
adjustment arrangement, and the first annual arrangement theroundar, under
the Structural Adjustment Facility. The macroeconomic stabilization and
structural reform program that this supports was described in Part II; the
DMP will monitor particularly closely the implemntation of the stabiliza-
tion program. IDA and IMF staff will continue their close cooperation while
monitorlng the Government'a Economic Recovery Program. There are no ongolng
Stend-by arrangements; the last was approved in November 1982. Haiti made a
purchase under the Compensatory Financing Facility in 1981. As of December
31. 1986, total Fund credit outstanding was SDR 54.7 million, or 124 percent
of quota, and Trust Fund loan disbursements totalled SDR 18.6 million, of
which SDR 9.3 million is outstanding. A resident representative has been
stationed in Port-au-Prince oince 19?2. The last Article IV consultatlons
were held during September 1986 and were concluded ln December 1986. An IMF
expert on bank supervision and credit control is presently on assignment at
the Central Bank; a tax administration adviser has been assigned since early
1987 to assist the Government to Implement the lncome tax and customs tariff
reforms.
120.     Othbr Donors.  Many public and private aid agencies are active In
Haiti. With the proposed credit, IDA disbursements would amount to about 25
percent of total ald flows to Haiti in FY87. Among the most important
agencies are the Inter-American Development Bank, the United States (about
50 percent of disbursements), France, the Federal Republic of Germany,
Japan, Canada, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). All are
members of the Haiti donors Subgroup of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation
in Economic Development. At Its meeting in November 1986, donors announced
their support for the Government's Economic Recovery Program and also sub-
stantial increases in their intended levels of financial support for Haiti.
In addition, the Goverment presented a list of 26 projects proposed for
external financing, drawn up with the assistance of UNDP and IDA staff.
This list also formed the basis of the UN Secretary-General's appeal for
Haiti in October 1986. Direct donor assistance for the Government's
Economic Recovery Program includes the United States' Economic Support Fund
grants, which are policy-based operations supporting many of the same re-
forms as the DIF Structural Adjustment Facility Arrangement and the 'DA
Economic Recovery Operation. Other support is detailed in Annex V.
PART VI -              aCnUEDIION
121.     I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve It.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 7, 1987



- 35  -                                ANNEX  I
Page 1 of 3
UA7TIs ICONWEIC INDICATORS AND PROJECTIOhS
Aount             Averge Annual growth Rate                 Share of CDP at Market Prices
CUS$ milion)         (t a  constant prices)                        (Z at current prlae)
m8               Ff74-al  VY31-36  FYlu-90                J176      FY31     rY36     nY90
(eat.)                              (projected)                              (naot.   (proj.)
National Accounts
Cross Domtle Produat                   2147.0                 3.4      -0.6       4.6              100.0     99.7    100.0    100.0
IndLreet Taxes                         35.P                 6.0      -3.0      4.6                4.0       4.2      4.0       4.0
AarLculture                           689.2               100.3      -1.6      5.5               26.4      33.8      32.1     22.1
Industry                              493.8                 6.2       0.2      5.1               19.4      22.2     23.0      13.0
Other                                 578.1                 4.1       0.1      3.6               38.2      39.5     40.9      40.9
Cenoaiption                            2028O 7                3.9      -1.5      4.4               93.1      98.3      94.5     94.5
Cross Domestic Investmnt                259.7                 6.3      -3.7     13.9                15.3     16.9      12.1     12.1
Exports of CUPS                         294.0                 3.2      -0.1      4.3               16.3      16.3     13.7      13.7
lmports of CUPS                         435.4                 6.3      -5.4      9.5              -25.7    -32.0    -20.3    -20.3
Cross National SavLngs                  104.3               -32.2      -7.8     13.1                 6.1      0.7       4.9      7.1
External Trade
Merchandlse Exports                     209.2                                    3.9                12.7     10.7       9.7      3.9
Coffee                                 55.0                 4.9      -0.3      7.1                5.0       2.2      2.6       2.1
Other Agricultural Exports             33.2                                    2.7                2.5       2.0       1.5      1.4
Assmebly Industry                     121.0                                    6.2                2.3       5.4      5.6       5.5
Minerals                                 -                           -100       -                 2.4       1.1        -        -
MerchandLis  Imports                    245.1                                    9.5              -13.7    -21.4    -11.4    -12.9
Prices                                    FY31        FY52     FY83      FY84    FP85       FY86     FY87      PY88     FY89      FY90
(ot.)   ---------(projected)--------_
CDP Deflator (1916-100)                    67.0       69.7     75.9      34.3     8838    100.0    104.0    103.2    112.5    117.0
Consumer Price  udas                      146.1      158.1    171.4    135.1    201.0    21835
Export PricL  Index (1986-100)                4         821      87        91       93       100        99       99       10L      103
Import Price Indez (1986-100)                32         87       89        95       96       100        96       95       95        94
Teas of Trade IndX s (1946-100)             102         93       98        96       97       1oo       103      105       107      110
--------Public Sector-  ---                     -----CCntral Cmarnnent----
------As I of CDP -----                         ------As 1 of CDP-----
PubILc Finance                             F86        FY80     FY86      FY90               PUG      FY8O      Fr86     FY90
(est.)              (eat-)  (proj.)             (eat.)             (est.)  (proj.)
Curreat Receipts .1                      1989.1       14.9     18.5      14.9             1129.0      9.5      10.5     11.5
Current txpendLiure                      1385.0       14.7     17.6      11.7             1237.0     10.1      11.3      9.4
Current Surplus                           104.1        0.2      1.0       3.1             -103.0     -0.6      -1.0      2.1
Caplial Expenditure                       661.1        8.2      6.2       9.1              529.6      6.5       1.9      8.1
Foreiga Financing bl                      594.2        5.0      5.5       6.0              528.5      4.2       4.9      6.0
a/ Central Gan_rnmnt Current Recelpte lncludes transfers from public enterprlsea.
bi Includes forelgn grants.
29-Oct-36



HAITI: ECONCOMIC INDICATORS AND PRDJECIIONS
(percent)
Papulations 5.4 million (1986)
GNP per Capita: US$350 (1985, Atlas methodology)
FY80     FY81     FY82      FY83     nA        iFY85a    Y FY1    FY17    Frye       FY89     n90
test.)    --- (----projected)---
GDP Growth Rate                             7.6     -2.8      -3.4      0.8       0.3      1.1      -1.4      4.5       5.0      4.5       4.5
CDY Growth Rate                             7.9     -3.0      -5.4      2.0      -0.2      1.3      -0.7      4.9       5.3      4.8       4.9
CDY per capita Crawth Rate                  6.4     -4.4      -6.8      0.2      -1.9     -0.4      -2.5      3.0       3.4      2.9       3.0
Consumption par capita Grovth Rate         10.9     -1.9    -11.1       0.4      -3.9      1.3     -1.6       3.0       2.7      .1       2.7
Consuser Price Growth                      18.0      8.2       8.2      8.4       8.0      8.6       8.5      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.0
Debt (IncludLng W)
Debt ServLce (US$ million)               20.5     24.5      18.9     18.7     24.4      38.7     72.3      62.9     52.7    4*.3       39.9
Debt Servlcellsports of GiNPS             6.5      9.9       6.4      6.6       7.7     12.8     24.7      20.7     16.4      12.8      11.1
Debt Survice/GDP                          1.4      1.7       1.3      1.1       1.3      2.0       3.4      2.7       2.1      1.6       1.3
DODIGDP                                  18.2     27.1      31.3     32.3      31.9     31.5     29.4      29.2     281.      28.1     27.5
Debt (excluding WD)
Debt Servlce (US$ million)               20.5     20.8      15.0     14.1     17.6      20.2     48.7      35.0     29.2      28.8     20.0           1
Debt Service/Exports of GINFS             6.5      8.4       5.1      4.9       5.6      6.7     16.6      11.5       9.1      8.5       8.3         w
Debt Slrvice/CDP                          1.4      1.4       1.0      0.9       1.0      1.0      2.3       1.5       1.1      1.0       1.0
Croass Domestic Investmantl/DP             16.9     16.9      16.6     16.3      15.9     14.6      12.1     14.6      16.3     17.0      17.0
Gross DOmestic SavlrLgzgGDP                 8.1      1.7       6.1.     6.0       6.9      6.0       5.6      5.6       6.2      7.3       7.5
Groms National SavingaJODP                  7.0      0.7       5.0      4.5      S.       5.3       4.9      5.0       5.7      6.3       7.1
Public InvatmentioDp                        8.2     11.9       9.8     10.4      11.2      8.5       6.2      8.0       9.1      9.1       9.1
Public Savings/CDP                          0.2     -0.9       0.6      1.2       0.6      1.0       1.0      1.2       1.9      2.3       3.1
Private InvestinntIGDP                      8.8      5.0       6.8      5.9       4.7      6.1       5.9      6.6       7.2      7.9       7.9
Private Savingx/GDP                         6.1      1.7       4.4      3.4       5.2      4.2       4.0      3.8       3.8      4.5       4.0
Ratio of Public to Private Investment    0.93       2.39      1.45     1.76      2.38     1.39      1.04     1.21      1.26     1.15      1.15
Government Revenue/GDP                      9.5      8.9      10.1     10.4      10.1     11.6      10.5     10.2      10.9     11.5      11.5
Goverment ExpenditureloDP                  16.6     21.2      20.4     15.7      19.9     19.2      16.5     16.4      17.1     17.3      17.5
Publlc Sector Deficit/GDP at               -7.9    -12.9      -9.2     -9.2    -10.6      -7.5      -5.2     -61a    -7.2       -6.8      -6.0
Exports GC FS Grovth Rate bI               66.6    -42.1      22.7     -9.5       6.2     -6.5      -9.7      4.8       5.0      3.8       3.9
Exports of G&NFS/GDP                       21.6     16.8      19.7     17.5      17.5     15.6      13.7     13.7      13.7     13.6      13.5
Imports of GIMlS Grovth Rate b(            60.0    -24.0    -11.4       0.5      -0.9     -3.8    -10.9      19.3      11.0      3.1       4.5
Imports of G0N1S1GDP                       30.5     32.0      29.9     27.9      26.5     24.3      20.3     23.2      24.5     24.3      24.3           d
Current Aecount (US$ million)             -93.5   -174.7   -118.1   -151.6   -139.0   -133.7   -103.3   -154.3   -178.9   -177.1   -175.1               0    >
Current Account/CDP                        -6.4    -11.8      -8.0     -9.3      -7.7     -6.9      -4.9     -6.6      -7.0     -6.4      -5.9          ( 
Terms of Trade Index (19861OO)           105.3    102.2      92.7     97.9      96.0     96.6    100.0    102.8    104.-    106.8    109.6
*/  Before grants.
bi In volume terms.
29-Oct-86



HAITI;  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ mil ion at eurrent prices)
FYi0      FY81      FY82     nF 3      FY84     FY85      FY86     FY87      FY88      FY89     FY90
Cast.)    ----      (proje eted-----------
Current Account Balance                   -93.5    -174.7   -118.1   -151.6   -139.0   -133.7   -105.3         -154      -179      -177     -176
Exports of Goods,  FS                     316.1      248.6    293.0    285.5    317.3    302.4    294.0         303       320       340      360
of whitch  Coffee                        90.9       33.1     35.9      52.5     54.0      48.0     55.0        54        56       59        63
Assembly Industry              77.2      79.6      98.9    100.4    124.7    126.6    121.0         130      141       133      165
Imparts of goods, NTS                    -445.7    -473.4   -444.0   -453.1   -481.5   -469.6   -435.4         -498      -566     -567      -590
Factor Income                             -15.9      -14.7    -16.1    -24.5    -19.8    -14.6    -14.0          -14      -13       -13      -13
Met Private Transfers                      52.0       64.8      49.7     42.5      45.0     48.1      50.1       54        59        63       56
Capital Account Balance                    80.3      119.6    104.6    139.6    11866    119.5    128.4         276       258       254      247
Net Official  Transfers (Grants)           33.4       66.1      69.2     69.3      76.2     87.3    117.2       163      15        153      153
Official Capital HLT                        65.2     102.0      30.3     73.9      53.3     22.7      22.7       113      103       101       91
of which. AmortLiation                  -11.5      -10.7    -16.1    -13.6    -13.8       -5.7      -6.8       23        17        17       18           W
Other Offlcial Capital                       3.2       1.7        -        -       -8.1     13.6    -10.0         -        -         -        _
Private Capital & Errors & Omassions   -21.3         -50.2       5.1     -5.6      -6.8     -4.1      -1.5        -        -         -        -
Overall Balance                           -13.2      -55.1    -13.5    -12.0    -20.4    -14.2        23.1       122       79        77       71
Net IMF Purchases (decrease - -)                    17.5     12.1      22.3      21.8     -9.4    -18.8       -23       -20      -13        -9
Changes in Arrears (decrease - -)          -        20.5       0.4    -12.2      -6.3      9.6       3.0      -15        -         _        -
Other Reserve Changes (increase- -)    13.2         17.1       1.0      1.9       4.9     14.1      -9.3      -38       -23       -31      -27
OffLcial Reserve Level (nut)                32.5      -2.0    -20.8    -58.0    -74.0    -92.9    -75.9           60       83       115      142
Off. Res. as Months' Imports (gross)        -1.1      -0.5      -1.0     -0.7      -0.7     -0.5      -0.6       1.8      1.6       1.1      0.7
Exchang- Rate (sineS 1919)    Public External Debt (US m.)             Public Debt Service RatLo (C)    IDA LendLng, Sept. 30, 1986 (Us$ a.)
__________________________     -------------------------------           _______---_------ ---_--___--- _  ---______________________       ----------e 
US$ 1.00 - 0 5.00         9(30iI6i      631 (Including DMF)         FY66:     24.7 (Including DO)   Oustanding and Disbursed           209.3
0 1.00 -U173$ 0.20                      353 (Excluding 1H)                     16.6 (ExcludIng DOE)   Dudsbursed                        62.0  
Outstanding Lncl. Undis. bl   271.4
aI Including INF.
b/  Total does not equal sum because of SDR exchange rate change..
29-Oct-86



-38-                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
TEE STATUS OF UANK CR013 OPURATIES IN HAITI
A.   STAfN  OF  A   LoS AND iDA QUxITS a/
(as of September 30, 1986)
Amount in US$ million
(Less cancellation)
Credit Fiscal
Number  Year           Borrower         Purpose        Bank     IDA  Undimbursed
One loan and 12 credits have been fully disbursed   2.6        124.2
1131-HA  1981  Republic of Haiti  Industrial Credit              7.0       0.4
1220-HA  1982  Republic of Hait!  Highways VI                   14.0       3.3
1257-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Forestry                       4.0       2.5
1281-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Power III                     26.0       1.4
1305-HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Education III                  9.0       1.4
1338-HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Urban Development             21.Ob/   14.7
1410-HA  1984  Republic of Haiti  Rural
Development II           19.1       9.5
1527-HA  1985  Republic of Haiti  Fourth Power                  22.1      18.2
1592-HA  1985  Republic of Haiti  Fourth Education
and Training             10.0      10.6 /
TOTAL                                         2.6   256.4
of which has been repaid                    2.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                       271.4c1
Amount sold                      0.6
of which has been repaid      0.6
TOTAL undisbursed                                               62.0
a/ In addition, the Board approved a credit of US$20.0 million for a Seventh
Transport Project on February 3, 1987 and a credit of US$40.0 million to
support the Government's Economic Recovery Program on March 24, 1987.
b/ Includes US$13.0 million Special Fund.
c/ Difference due to SDR exchange rate.



ANNEX II
- 39 -                     Page 2 of 2
HAITI
Be  STATENRET OF IFC INYKSTS
(as of September 30, 1986)
Investment    Fiscal                         Type of
Number          Year        Obligor          Business    Loan   Equity   Total
--US$ Mllion-
620-HA         1982    Promoteurs et        Integrated   1.35    0.15       1.50
Investisseurs       Poultry
Associes, S. A.
Total Gross Commitments                                   1.35    0.15      1.50
Less cancellations, repayment, and aales                  0.06     -        0.06
Total commitments now held by IFC                         1.29    0.15      1.44
Total Undisbursed                                         0.75    0.04      0.79



- 40 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAM
TECNCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMrAR!r PROJECT DAMI SIEET
I. TISMTALE OF KEY RVENTS
(a) Preparation:
Project prepared by:              Government/IDA
Initial request for IDA Credit:  July 1986
Identification mission:           July 19B6
(b)  Appraisal mission:                   September/October 1986
(c)  Negotiations:                        March 1987
(d)  Planned effectiveness                May 1987
II.  SPECIAL IDA INFLl]EHCNAION ACK10
Intensive supervision, especially at initial stages (para. 102).
III.  SPECIAL CONDITIONS
(a) As special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
the Ministry of Economy and Finance is to (i) appoint the MEF
Project Manager; and (ii) hire the international consultant to
assist MEF in project startup and management and in the selection
of consultants (para. 100).
(b) As a condition of disbursement of the Public Sector Management and
Environmental Studies components, the Ministry of Economy and
Finance would appoint an accounting firm acceptable to IDA to act
as agent for the Ministry in the hiring of consultants and in the
serviciag of their contracts (para. 100).
(c) As a condition of disbursement of the Industrial Restructuring and
Development component, the Borrower would enter into an agreement
with the Central Bank specifying the Central Bank's obligation to
carry out the component through FDI and the Borrower's obligation
to transfer the proceeds of this component to FDI (para. 101).
(d) As a condition of disbursement of the In-depth Studies
subcomponent of the Industrial Restructuring and Development
component, the Association would approve the standard contract to
be signed by FDI with each enterprise (para. 97).



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) FDI to hire by October 31, 1987 the consulting firm to undertake
the In-depth Studies (para. 97).



-42-                         ANNE IV
Page 1 of 7
REPUBUQUE DIArrl      GOVERNMEN'S LETTER OF RECOVERY POLICY
MINISTERE
DE LECONOMIE ET DES FINANCES
No.SEC 141                                               POKRT-AU-RECLE. LE .A. J@nwA. nt..?
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
International Development Association
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Conable:
The Government of Haiti requests an Economic Recovery Credit from the
International Development Association to support its program of
development policy reforms detailed in this letter.
The provisional Government which came to power in February 1986 bas
scheduled elections for November 1987, with the then 'lected Government
taking office in February 1988. The present Government is reforming
public finances and development policies to stimulate economic
recovery, to hand over a viable, growing economy to its successor. It
intends therefore to maintain in force all actions so far taken and to
be taken.
The Government's program seeks to promote economic expansion through
export-led growth and improved agricultural performance. These
objectives are being fostered both directly by the removal of
impediments to efficient resource allocation and indirectly by the
impetus to higher capital inflows that such policies should generate.
Central to our strategy is the need to rebuild the confidence of
Haitian workers, farmers and investors as well as the external aid
donors.
Macro-economic management and stabllization
Our medium-term macro-economic objectives are (a) to generate a real
GDP growth rate of at least 4.5% per year; (b) to reduce inflation to
the level of our main trading partners, currently estimated at some 4Z
per year: and (c) to achieve an overall balance of payments surplus
equivalent to almost 1.5Z of GDP in FY87 and close to 1% in each of
FY88 and FY89, so as to permit the strengthening of official net
international reserves and some replenishment of the Central Bank's
gross foreign assets.



- 43 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 7
After February 1986, the Government took drastic steps during the rest
of FY86 to redress the budgetary position. Wasteful current
expenditures and unjustified development projects, including special
projects of the former regime, were eliminated, and resources were
reallocated to agriculture, education, health and the armed forces.
The cut In current expenditure amounted to more than 3% of GDP on an
annual basis, of which about half wes reallocated to priority sectors
in the form of wage increases and sorely needed non-wage expenditure.
The other half was used to reduce excise taxes on basic consumption
Items such as petroleum products, sugar and flour. Severe pruning of
the FY86 development program resulted in a 60% implementation rate
compared to original expenditure forecasts. In total, current and
development expenditure came to only 17% of GDP compared to the 23%
foreseen in the previous Government's budget estimates.
As a result, Haiti's financial position improved substantially. In
FY86, the public sector made net repayments to the domestic banking
system and reduced its foreign commercial debt. The balance of
payments recorded a substantial overall surplus of US$23 million
compared to a US$14 million deficit the previous year. Prices dropped
by 4% from February to September 1986, the end of the fiscal year. The
discount on the Gourde on the parallel market for foreign exchange
declined from over 20Z to 5-7%. However, the economy remained in
recession.
The Government continues to exerc'se fiscal restraint in FY87. As in
FY86, its main objective is no Central Bank financing of the public
sector. In the FY87 budget, Treasury receipts and expenditures are
both set at G1290 million and the public investment program xs'ounts to
G1140 million. Assuming an 80% implementation rate of this program,
which would be a significant improvement on the past, overall public
expenditure should recover to about 20% of GDP with corresponding
foreign exchange requirements covered by external aid. Estimated
Treasury receipts of G1290 million include agreed upon disbursements
from the IMF's Structural AMjustmett Facility and USAID's Economic
Support Fund. Treasury Gourde expenditures include a G100 million
transfer to the public investment program, which is financed in its
entirety by this transfer, the internal cash generation of public
enterprises and disbursements of concessional external aid. The
overall public sector deficit (before aid) will be held to about 7% of
GDP in FY87 and beyond, well below the average level of recent years.
This deficit will be more than offset by external aid, enabling the
non-financial public sector as a whole to reduce its indebtedness to
the domestic banking system and foreign commercial creditors. This in
turn will permit an expansion in credit to the private sector without
risking either our inflation or balance of payments objectives. Any
Increase in expenditure above these levels will be met by a
corresponding and equal increase in public receipts from nonbank
sources; similarly, any shortfall in receipts will be offset by an
equal decrease in expenditure so that the level of nonconcessional debt
can still be reduced.



ANNEX IV
- 44 -                           Page 3 of 7
Tax Reform
The Government is continuing in FY87 to implement the program of tax
reform begun in FY86, which aims at irreversibly Improving the equity
of the tax system as well as at increasing its elasticity and
buoyancy. The Government believes that by broadening the tax base and
lowering rates the current high levels of evasion can be reduced. In
FY86 ancillary taxes on wages were eliminated and a variable excise tax
was imposed on petroleum imports. Effective in early FY87, the export
tax on coffee was reduced to 10 and other export taxes were
eliminated, a new corporate and personal income tax decree was enacted
simplifying the rate structure, clarifying the tax base and
strengthening collection procedures. Administrative procedures will be
improved in particular by facilitating cross-checks between income,
value added and trade ta--q.  Starting in FY87, the value added tax
will be more stringently entorced in order to reverse the recent
slowdown in collection. In the long run, this tax should replace most
excise taxes, already a number of excise taxes have been eliminated or
reduced. Steps are also being taken to improve both tax and customs
revenue collection.
Public Expenditure
The budgeting and control of current Treasury expenditure are being
reinforced progressively, as competent staff can be assigned to these
tasks. Significant diversions of public funds to fraudulent or
wasteful uses have been stopped, the effort in this direction will be
firmly maintained. At the same time the systematic reallocation of
resources to priority areas is being pursued. The recurrent needs of
past development projects are being more adequately met than in the
past. A start has been made to reduce the excessive share of wages in
current expenditure. Fraud in wage payments is being reduced with
significant savings for the Treasury. The Government will in FY87
limit staff levels and wage increases in ministries and other public
bodies. In addition, the Government is carrying out an extensive
series of audits of ministries, public agencies and public enterprises,
including of the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank.
Following the establishment of the Commissariat a la Promotion
Nationale et a l'Administration Publique in August 1986, public
investment is being both improved and expanded. Our objective is to
ensure that priority ongoing projects are completed, that counterpart
fund requirements and the recurrent needs of development projects are
adequately provided for, and, more generally, to improve the quality of
public investments. Allocations to agricultural development projects
favor irrigation rehabilitation (including where necessary protection
of associated watersheds), feeder roads and input delivery. Soil
conservation and reforestation are maintained at financially
sustainable levels and increasingly linked to treecrop rehabilitation
or expansion. For industry, public investments are concentrated on
restructuring the public industrial enterprises which renain and,



- 45 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 7
especially, on Improving the physical infrastructure and publlc
utilities serving private industries. Development expenditure ln
social sectors is concentrated heavily on education, training, health
and urban development. Less useful social projects have been curtailed
drastically. On the financing side, Treasury transfers are almost
exclusively devoted to meeting the counterpart fund requirements of
foreign aided projects. Should the proposed Cap Haltien airport
project go ahead, we will finance it only out of the proceeds of
one-third of the passenger departure tax that accrues to the Nitional
Airport Authoritv and will not apply any foreign grants or incur any
external indebtedness to its construction. All other new projects are
being financed exclusively with concessional external aid. We intend
to maintain this pattern of public investment expenditure in the
future, in close consultation with IDA and the members of the Caribbean
Group for Cooperatlon in Economic Development.
The Government, with assistance from UND? and IDA, prepared a list of
26 small new projects, the total cost estimated at US$43 million.
These projecte, which concentrate on productive employment generation
in the short term, were submitted to aid donors at the November 1986
meeting of the Haiti Subgroup of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
Economic Development. They will be included in the public development
program as and when they receive firm financing commitments from
donors.
Public Enterprises
The Government is fully cognizant of the need to reverse previous
policies toward public enterprises which led to substantial losses, not
only in terms of fiscal revenue but also of real economic resources,
amounting to almost 4 percent of GDP each year from FY8O-85. Yet the
economy declined over this period. No new public industrial
enterprises will be established and investments at existing ones will
be confined to those necessary for restructuring. The Government will
continue its policy of not subsidizing public enterprises.
To stem losses, the Government has adopted a policy of market
liberalization, closures and restructuring of the public industrial
enterprises and is taking measures to improve financial monitoring and
performance evaluation of all public enterprises. In accordance with
this new policy, all import monopolies and licensing requirements
affecting all products except sugar imported or manufactured by public
enterprises have been removed and import tariffs placed on the products
concerned. Most public enterprises are also being externally audited.
The vegetable oil mill, ENAOL, and one of the two publicly owned sugar
mills, USND, ceased operating in July 1986; neither will be operated as
a public enterprise. In both cases, the employees were given the
option of forming a private cooperative to operate the plants or to
accept an indemnity. At USND, all workers opted for an indeanity.
This plant will therefore be offered for sale or lease to the private
sector; it will not operate during Y87. Alternative arrangements have



- 46 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 7
been made for cane growers to supply one of the two private sector
mills. At the same time, alternatives to cane production in the
Leogane plain are being developed and encouraged. ENAOL has beean
dissolved and * cooperative formed by about 30 percent of the prevlous
eoployees to run the plant. No subsidies, public credit, loans, loan
guarantees, protection or market privileges of any kind will be
extended to any cooperative or private enterprise which may run either
the former ENAOL or USND plants.
At Ciment d'Haiti, a cement factory, and La Minoterie, a flour mill,
major restructuring measures will be undertaken, in addition to the
market reforuw, in order to make these two eaterprises more efficient
and competitive. During FY87, these will include substantial
reductions in excess staff and wages, especially in the upper echelons,
regular external auditing and, In the case of La ?inoterie,
improvements in accounting and management procedures following the key
recomendations of a recent external audit.
During FY87, the Government will in addition conduct external audits of
TELECO, the telecomuunications company, and of USN, the second public
sugar mill. Alternatives to sugar cane productlon in the area
surrounding the latter will also be examined.
Trade RegulSe
Starting more than fifteen years ago, import substitution policies,
balance of payments constraints and fiscal revenue requirements
progressively led to high taxes and barriers to trade and to
discretionary fiscal inceatives for investment. Protection for local
producers made exporting relatively less attractive; measures included
high import tariffs, quantitative restrictions on imports, import
licensing, import monopolies and prohibitions and price controls. As
discussed below, taxes on agricultural exports further deterred
exporting. In addition to these consequences for production, domestic
prices were kept high, placing a heavy burden on the Haitian consuner.
The Government is reversing these trends. The narrowness of the local
market means that industrial expansion can only occur through exporting
and through increased demand as a result of lower domestic prices.
Both imply increased efficiency and competition. The Government has
therefore adopted a major program to reform the trade regime and
stimulate efficiency through a revised incentive structure. The
objective is to reduce the average level of effective protection below
40%, harmonize its distribution across sectors, and lead to a more
stable and neutral environment which will stimulate investment in
efficient production rather than rent-seeking activities. The local
cost of goods wlll be reduced in the process, as It will through a
thorough revision of tariffs on products not produced in Haiti.



- 47 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 7
To reach tbse objectives the Government is progressively elmainatLDg
all export taxsa, has ended all but one import monopoly (sugar), has
abrogated completely the law imposlng import quotas and licensing
requirements for industrial products, has limited import prohlbitions
to only two product. for sanitary reasons, has eliminated quotas for
alL products but retalned import licensing for seven agricultural
products, and has started to implement a major tariff reform to replace
all specific tariffs with ad valorem ones and to reduce the levels of
nominal tarlffs. Tariffs range between 0 and 40%, the majority between
10 and 302. MedLcal supplies and agricultural Liports are exempt. The
average level of effective protection has been drastically reduced from
over 100 to about 40Z. The new tariff will be fully in effect by
December 1987.
In addition to these measures, the Government ls reviewing the tariff
structure for imports from non-GATT countries and has extended the 12
minimum administrative charge to all imports except pharmaceuticals and
petroleum. During FY87, we shall also eliminate petty taxes on both
imports and exports and revise the Investment Code to harmonlze it with
the above measures. We intend to introduce an endorsable drawback
system to place production for both the local and export markets on the
same footing. We further intend to Lmprove the operatlon of the
Customs.
The Government intends to provide financial and technlcal asslstance to
Industrial enterprises restructuring in viable way, to operate in the
new buslaess environment. Finally export promotLon measures are being
stepped up. We have also recently negotiated a significant expansion
in Haiti's quotas for imports of textiles into the United States which
should greatly benefit our textile industry.
Agriculture
The agricultural sector, which contains the vast majority of our
people, is in a state of crisis. The volume of agricultural production
has increased little, if at all, ln recent years, while the real value
of agricultural exports has declined sharply. Production per capita
has also fallen and the Government Is increasingly concerned about
deteriorating levels of nutrition for some segments of the population.
At the same time, increasing population pressure on the land, insecure
land tenure and felling of forests for fuel and constructLon, have
resulted in soil erosion and environmental degradation of catastrophic
proportions.
The causes of these discouraging phenomena are rooted in history and
are soclo-economically complex. They point to basic structural
distortions and to an absence of proper technLcal support. The
Government plans to refocus production toward those products and
technologies for which Haiti has a comparative advantage, thereby
increasiag productivity, production and exports. Our strategy for this
is one of improved production incentives, investment programs and



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 7
technical support. The Government intends also to maintaLn efforts to
address the pervasive problems of deteriorating non-renewable resources
and nutrition levels.
Trade in agricultural products is being liberalized. First, we have
reduced the export tax on coffee to 0l and intend to eliminate it once
overall revenue or expenditure performance permits; all other export
taxes on agricultural products-on cocoa, essential oils and
sisal-have been abolished. Second, all imports of agricultural inputs
are to be admitted free of restrictions and duties. Third, it is also
our intention to free the producer price of cotton in order to revive
cotton production.
The Government intends as soon as possible to establish a new
agricultural development bank to replace BNDAI and BCA, the two
existing credit institutions. Following a recently completed audit,
BNDAI will be dissolved before the end of FY87. By that date, we will
also establish a system setting rents on State lands related to market
value.
Sincerely,
Leslie Delatour
M4inister of the Economy and Finance



AX V
Page 1 of 5
THE GOVEJuOcI * s PROGRAH, THE EWOS(IC RIECOVERY CRDIT AD TE PROMPSED PROJECT
Sector and Policy Area             Issues and Objective                     Measures Taken                       Future ActIlonS            Related Project, IDA, IDF end
C' - Supported by ths rfeemle Recovery Creditj                       Donor Syport
MACROECONWIC STABILIZATION
a. Overall performance          Need to mLantLin satisfactory        FY88 resulted in reduced              *Continued satisfactory              Project to provide macro
macro framevork in whiLeh to         LnfLateio  end ovexall balance       performance                           cofsultiMg sarvicas
impl-mint policy reforms.            of payments surplus
past policies led to  coneaic                                                                                   D   Structural Adjusatot
stagnatlon, inflation and            *AMreement vwih DF sand IDA on                                             Facility *pgroed Dee 85
balance of payments problems         poliey framework for DO
Structural Adjustmnt Facility                                             Propoed 0.S. lmbL Sc pnr
has targets of 4.52 reel                                                  fund grant for FY87 to be
growth. Infla,ion at level of                                             contLngent on appropriate
tradLng partners, end overall                                             meero frawork as Agreed
balance of payments surplus of                                            with DOr and IDA
abaut 22 of CDP Ln FYS7
b. Fiscal policy                Insdequately centrolled and          PubiLc sector deficit                 Overall public sector deficit
extra-budgetary spending             reduced in FY36                       before grants to te bald to
led to fiscal deficits                                                     about 71 of GDP In n7s7-sP
c. Monetary policy              Past flscal defici: fin  nced        PubiLe sector's steak of              Further reductLoan Lo public          IHr  A banking Adviser At
laraeLi with Central Bank            nonancesaLonal debt reduced           sector's stock of non-               Ccetral lank
credits excess liquidity             in FYn6                               conceselonal debt in FT78
spLiled over Lnto balance
of payments
TAX REUOOIM                     System lacked buoyancy and           Reduction of excLse tames            lIpoved collection and                 DV TA tax eInlistration
equity wich hlgh excieL  taxes                                             systleat   cress-checking            adviser at MLiLstry of riance
on baic consumption Items  nd       Varlible excise tax placed             mns    incc and* value added
xtenasive incem  tgx evs Lon.        an petrolma products                 taxes
Objective Is to Lmprove
collections, buoyancy and            ElLmLnatlon of taxes ear-
equity                               mrked for special projects
Reform of Lncae tax



AKN= V
Page 2 of 5
TS  00YnNOT'S PrOGRM, TIM SCOPCC RECOVUY moll AND iS P=KPOI  PROJET
Sector and Polley Aiee             Issues and Objectives                    Measures Taken                       Future Actions            Related Project, IDA, M  end
S' - lupported by the Ecoic tecoaery Credit                         Donor 5sport
PUBLIC EGCUDIVZ
a. Recurrent                    Past spendiLg dominated by           *Zhllaetioan of wasteful              Iwrovinete to vage payment           Project to f-e progrsing
vages, poorly controlled, and        special political projects           control in health enA to              eontrol ad inatorXln   of
Act oriented enough to                                                     encurrnt budgeting in                public expenditxre. lncluding
deeloapnt end non-wage               'Znding of reigned budetary          educatAIon                           wage bill
needs. Mhb past  xpeanditure         sue for unidentified purposes
wasteful, Lneffitelnt *nd for                                             Cowp1ctlon of furtber ei.Lts          IDA E4ucation IV projeet
special political purposes.          Reduction of fraudulent vwago         ineluding of the Minaistry of        includes TA to improve
Objective is to control              paymnts, especially  n               Finance ad of the Central             education budgeting end
spendLng end reorient it to          education                            Benk                                  control
priority purposes
*Increased recurrent spending                                             USAID financed audits of
on agriculture, educLton and                                              seavral *minstries end
health                                                                    gegocLas
b. PubiLc Investmnt             Pest program included                *nil6 progrs  isqproved, with         *Preparation of a satisfactory       Preject to finance progri.lng
inappropriate and unmeconie          elimination of uproducatve           progrm for fu                        coantrol and mnnftoring of
enterprises  and li fused oter       projects uLth little or no                                                 progrem  and for project
too many unmompleced and             Lnvestm_nt content                                                         selectIon
unproductive projects; project                                                                                                                     0
selection poor and returns           CPY87 proSram Is relLtLvely                                               UND? assLsted preparation of
low. Quality of program              sound  IncludLng List of 26                                                list of 26 projects
Is to be improved by                 small new  projects for donor
limitinag nuer of projects           fiWnanng and agreant not                                                  World Bank cbaired  a  i16
and coLetinS  priority               to use resources other than                                                Caribbean Group for
onsoinz ones                         from airport ta  for Cap                                                   Cooperation in  cenomie
Eaitien airport                                                           Delopent meting of Haiti
Subgroup



ARM V
Page 3 of 5
TN! WOYnEOCT'S PFlhAM, TEN ICOMC RECOVERY CREDIT AND TEE PROOSZD PROC
Seotor and PolLcy Area             Issues uan  Objecttves                  Measures Taken                       Future Actious            Related Project, IDA, D    nd
I' - Supported by the Iconale Recovery CredLt]                      Donor Support
fLIC NrrERPRTSf   S
a. Agro-Lndustrial and          Inappropriate, inefficient           *Ending of subsidies to              Audits of several public             PSAID financing several of the
industrial enterprises          end imeoonnia enterprises            public anterprises                  entarprises                          audits
operatLng with prlvlleged end
onopoly status led to real          *Closure and diLsolution of
resource losses, fiscal losses         AOL vegetable  Ll pleat aMd
end blah  consJUr prices for         replacement of Lt Lport  -- - -
basio its ..  Object ve is to        monopoly end quota on Lports
Sem tbhes  losses ed loe r          witL 201 tariff
prieas
*Closure of USED Jsuar mill                                              Preject to finance atudy of
alternatives to sugarene
*Decision not to extend any                                               ln area surroudln   the second
subsidies, puiwLLeses or loan                                            public sugar mill, USN
guarantees to ay private
eCaaies or cooperatives
that may rum the forcc INAOL
and USgD plaets
*Audits, management COasess         *lIplementation of auditors'         Project to finance C^-t
and coesncmnt of progress            recodA-tion.  and further           d'ait po1wetr and other 
to lrprce  cost                     iLproveants in cost                   adviLe
ea _  itiveaess at La                competitiveness at La
MLnoterle and CLment d'Ialtt          Lnoerle end Cimnet dElaiti          CCCI cansidering financing
saw power genarator for
*Replacement of La HLnoterie's                                            Cimnt d'EaitL
monopoly an flour LRports
with tariff.
*Removal of CLnnt d'atetULe
i4port monopolies and of
quote snd liece* requirements
to L port cement an their
repl acamt witn 101 teriff
b. Linsaial monitorLng          Inadequate past emnitoring of       *3ew organic 1ew of the                                                    Projec to assist MLinstry of
public enterprises                   Ministry of Fineane includes                                              Pinaceo monLtoring
financial monLtorLng of public
enterptlses



ANN   V
Page 0of 5
TEE GOVE3JtHMET'S PRJGRAM, TEH ECOECOIC RECOVERY CREDIT AND THE PFRPOSED PROJECT
S etor sad Policy Area             Issues end Objectives                   Measures Taken                       Future Actions            Related Project,  DA, DY and
Su - 6ppored by the Economic Recovery Credit]                       Donor Support
COQPETITION AID INDUSTRIAL
INCESTIVES
S. Trade regLme                 Sigh protection of daomstic         'Elimination of all Lmport                                                Project to suiqport technical
market led to teoM4pnrive           monopoly righta,                                                          assLstanc  fear firms
local production, high               all import quotas,                                                        restrActuring
consumer prices  And anti-           and most import Licenses end
export bias.  Objective is to        regulatlins (oxcept for                                                   Proposed IDA Industrial
reduce nominal end effective         saltar' reasons on uted                                                  Rastructurian credit to
protection on local merket to        clothas and navapapers *a                                                 finance firms restructuring
reduce consumr prices end            llcnsing of rice, sorghum,
inerease relatLve                    maLie, beamn, chicken parts
profitability of exports             and pork mat parts)
*New tariff strucurse, ending
aIL speLfiLe tariffs, and
introduing a. etructure with
an avetage tariff of sbout 202                                                                               .
and a -axima of 402 with a
fev exc eptions, and LacludLng       Introduce drawback system
transitlonsl measures for
products made in Raiti through
December 197
'Extension of II                    'ELmiation of petty taxes cn
admLnlstrative charge to all          xports and imports
Lports except phasraceuticals
and pteroloue products
b. Fiscal incentives           Past system of discretionary                                               Revisions to the Inv stment          Project to assist Introduction
tax exemptions led to                                                     Code and Lts uiiforn                 of drawback schme
privileged status for soc                                                 applieatien
firms. Objective is to
harmonize teatmeat across
sectors end firms



AIEfl V
Page 5 of 5
TM GrOVEfbNT)I' S FRl-RAM. THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY CRDIT AFD TEE FROPOSED fonECd
Sector end Policy Area             Issues and Objectives                    Measures Taken                       Future Actions             RAlated Project, IDA. IW  and
S' - Supported by the Economic Recovery Credit]                      Donor Support
AGRICULTURE
a. Pricing                      Prices end taxes at food             *Export tex on coffee                 *ElimLnatLon of coffee export         USAID end French aid support
processing plants, export            reduced from 22 to 101               tea If overall revenue end            coffee developaet projects
taxes, imort quotas and                                                    expenditure performance permit
tariffs, and adminietered            *EILmLnatlon of export taxes
prices have met Lncentives           sisal  nd cocoa
which diverge from comparative
advsantge, deterrLng output          *Replaoeaent of Lmort monopoly
and export expansion. end            on flour with tariffs                                                      Project to review enviranoear-
Lnduelng saLl *raiLon.                                                                                          degradation and develop policy
Objective is to reverse this                                                                                    and investm_nt proposals
by shifting relative producer
prices
b. Policy-induced rents         Production discouraged by low                                              'Preparation and iLplientatloan    Project to assLst design and
rents on State lands,                                                      of program to raise rants on         icprleantatioo of systsi to
permitting intermediaries to                                               State land                           raise rents
extract hLgh economic rente
from subtenants. Objective is                                                                                                                     LA
to raise rants to market
levels
c. Credit                       Access to credit has been             *Audit DNDAI                         tDissolution of EflAI and legaL    tDB considrAin  supporting
very limLted and credit                                                    establishment of a nev                oav credit bak
agencies portfolios are                                                    agricultural credit bank
heavily in arrears, largely
uncolLeo:eble loans.
Objective is to Lmprove
access to and effileincy of
credit system



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
Page I of 7
PUBLIC IWKSTNE rfWAM., 7767
1.        The overall program is estimated by the Government at C 1,140
milllon. Historically, however, implementation haa averaged about 7" percent;
in FY86 It was only 60 percent. For FY87, a rate of about 80 percent, or
G 900-950 million, would seem feasible, consLdering the increased
availability of untied aid to the current budget and improvements in program
preparation. This total excludes a list of 26 new projects, requiring
commitments of G 217 million (US$43 million) that was presented to external
donors for possible financing in late 1986. It also excludes the proposed
Cap Haitien international airport.
2.        The four tables in this annex present the program by sector and
source of financing; by sector and type of investment; by executing agency
and source of financing; and also the 34 largest projects which account for
71 percent of the total program In financial terms. Sectoral highlights are
presented below.
3.         Agriculture.  Expenditure reforms cannot produce results in
agriculture if they are not accompanied by pricing and structural changes.
Especially important are an increase in non-salary operating funds, now
partially built into the FY87 current Treasury Budget, and major improvements
in the management of staff resources at the Ministry of Agriculture as well
as in project preparation, selection and implementation. These measures,
while fully agreed by the Government, will take time to implement.
4.        The share of agriculture in the total public investment program is
thus increased moderately compared to FY86 because of management and other
constraints. The program, which amounts to G 241.9 million, focuses on
irrigation system rehabilitation, rainfed agriculture development, feeder
roads (which also appear under transportation) and Input delivery to
farmers. There are no new irrigation projects. Soil conservation and
reforestation are kept at financially sustaiaable levels and increasingly
linked to treecrop rehabilitation and watershed protection. Pre-investment
studies amount to G 18.1 million and support activities (mostly salaries) are
kept at G 5.7 million.
5.        The FY87 agricultural program is satisfactory as a transitional,
consolidation effort out of past errors in agriculture. It cannot, however,
be considered satisfactory when viewed against the considerable potential for
growth and export of agriculture in Haiti, especlally under irrigation. As
the Government's reforms of agricultural pricing, credit and management are
carried out, the sector should be able to absorb substantially higher levels
of public investment.
6.         IndTtry.  Ihe FY87 industrial program is sharply reduced both in
absolute and relative terms compared to FY86. The Government has disengaged
itself from ill-advised public industrial enterprises. The FY87 program



- 55 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 7
covers modernization and rebalancing investments at La Ninoterie and Ciment
d'Halti (G 7.5 and G 15.0 million, respectively), as well as the construction
of an industrial park aided by IDB (G 25 million).
7.         Eectric Powear.  With G 20 million for pre-iuvestment studies and
C 6.0 million for managerial strengthening, the G 145.2 million electric
power program in FY87 is reasonable and well balanced. Electricite d'Haiti
(EdH), while competently run, needs to reduce the number of employees per
customer but achieving this agreed objective is slowed by social sensitivity
in a country where unemployment and underemployment are extremely acute
problems.
8.         Transportation.  The road transport program (G 91.0 million) is
mainly devoted to feeder road construction and to main road rehabilitation.
Improvements at the Port-au-Prince airport (G 28.0 million) are justified.
The National Port Authorlty (G 16.0 million) will improve security at the
Port-au-Prince harbor, complete minor works at Cap Haltien and construct two
cabotage ports. The total transportation program thus amounts to G 139.4
million and contains only well justified projects. The road to Jeremie is
still at the technical design stage.
9.         Telecoaicatioma.  The bulk of the telecommunications program
(G 127.3 million) is to introduce digital exchanges to the Port-au-Prince
telephone network and improve the telex service. The cost of this equipment
is high by international standards because it is procured under tied aid.
TELECO, the public company, needs to improve the number of employees per
exchange line, like Edl.
10.        Urban Dvemloment and housing.  Port-au-Prince urgently needs an
urban development plan. Its absence greatly duplicates the major urban
investment, a drainage-program (G 29.5 million in FY87), as well as the
planning of water supply investmen;s. More attention should also be paid to
urban transport, minor works and traffic management to relieve congestion
that impedes workers' access to industrial assembly plants and through
traffic to the southeastern part of the country. Sites and services projects
are also lncluded in the program, some in Port-au-Prince and others in
provincial towns. The total program amounts to G 79.6 million.
11.        Water Supply. The sector has three public executing agencies
(CAMEP, SNEP and POCHEP). Their FY87 programs (G 49.8 million in total) are
regionally balanced as between the capital, provincial towns and villages.
They are well justified but CAMEP, the Port-au-Prince utility, needs to
reduce excess staff and to accelerate its metering program so as to be able
to collect charges on actual rather than estimated water consumption.
12         Educatio-. With the large increase of its current budget in FY87,
the Ministry of National Education could now begin to tackle the problems of
low teachers' salaries and Insufficient school supplies which caused



- 56 -
ANNEX VX
Page 3 of 7
inefficiency in basic public education and public training; due to past
negligence and irresponsibility, success will not come easily. However, the
bulk of primary educat:ton is in the private sector and this will remain so.
The FY87 investment program adds up to G 81.1 million compared to C 65.0
million in FY86. This program is on the whole well related to urgent needs
and not too costly.
13.        Health.  The health sector has also benefited in FY87 from a very
large increase in its current budget so that it should now be able to deliver
medical supplies and services more adequately than in the past and make more
effective use of its staff and physical facilities. The FY87 health
investment program is slightly smaller, as it should be, than the FY86
program which included expensive special projects of the past regime; it
amounts to G 110.0 million (G [16.5 million in FY86) with three large ongoing
projects to extend rural health services, control malaria and provide
maternal and child care. The investment program includes, as one would
expect, a large share (84 percent) of support activities, representing wages
and medical supplies financed by foreign donors. Sizeable fraud in wage
payments will have to be eliminated from the ministry and its agencies since
it can only demoralize those willing to work for the pay they receive and
discourage continued external donor support.



Table 1:  FYB7 PUBLIC INWISTME  PRhCPAM SY SRCTS AND BY SOt3ZC  OF  IAMACIMOr
(C mUttone)
---DostLe Flnanctnl ---          -      - anael 7Lnaaa -           -     OwveralL  Ohs  of
Sector                                        No. of   Trcasury  PubLiL    Total           FL-4AU    Other   Projeet  total        Total   Fr er
Projects              Ents.                         Food 14    Aid                           Caet (1)
01. Agriculturce                                 40       16.9       0.0      14.9          31.3      A.3    153.5   115.1         261.9       21.2
02. MLning                                        A        1.5       0.0       1.5           0.0      0.0       6.6      6.6         5.1        0.7
03. Industry                                      5        0.0      21.7      21.7           0.0       0.0     25.2    25.2         46.9        1.1
04. Inergy                                        7        0.0      65.6    6.6             0.0      0.5      75.2    75.6        145.2       121.
05. WMtur Supply                                 10        6.4       0.0       6.4           0.8      0.0      47.9    41.7         55.1 .5                 I
07. Transportatlon                               20       14.9      12.0      264.          22.5      30.0     60.1   112.6        129.5       12.2
as. Commucatlons                                  7         1.1     77.2      79.3           0.0       0.0     *9.0    A9.0        127.2       11.2
09. Urban Development                            13       19.2       0.0      19.2           0.0       0.0     35.5    55.5         74.6        6.5
10. Education                                    21        7.7       0.0       7.7           1.6      0.9      70.5    73.4         81.1        7.1
11. Population, Health and Mutritutton           14        2.3       0.0       2.3          26.0      0.0      51.7   107.7        110.0        9.6
12. SociaL Affair.                                3        0.8       0.0       0.6           0.0       0.5      1.5      2.0         2-8        9.2
13. Coeinjtty DeveLopment                        1S        1.9       0.0       1.9          14.5       1.8     31.3    47.9         59.6        4.4
14. Youth and Sporcts                             I         1.0      0.0       1.0           0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0         1.0        0.1
15. StattLlCe aod Inforaction                     3         1.6      0.0       1.5           1.6       0.0      0.7      2.3         3.9        0.3
14. Other MAlntstratLoan                        17         5.2       0.0       5.2           2.0      0.0      17.8    19.5        2U.0         2.5
11. Coerce                                        2        0.0       0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0      0.2      0.2         0.2        0.0
18. Regional Development                          4       16.6       0.0      16.6           0.0       3.1       4.9     8.0        24.6        2.2
TOTAL                                           186      100.0    179.5    279.5           106.5      10.9    113.2   160.6       1140.1      100.0
Share of Total Proagr   Cost (23                           o.a      15.7      24.5           9.3       3.6     62.6    75.3        100.0
0
Ph
-4



Table 2: FY87 PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM BY SECTOR AND TYPE OF INVESThENT
(G million)
Sector                                   Pre-Investment    --Investment--    ---Support---                 Total
Number Amount    Number  Amount    Number Amount           Number   Amount
01. Agriculture                              12  18.1          26    218.2          2   5.7               40    241.9
02. Hining                                     3   3.6          0       0.0         1   4.5                4      8.1
03. Industry                                  0   0.0           3      46.7         2   0.2                5     46.9
04. Energy                                    2  20.9           4    118.3          1   6.0                7 , 145.2
05. Water Supply                              0   0.0          10      55.1        0   0.0                10     55.1
07. Transportation                            4   2.2          16    137.2          0   0.0               20    139.4   c
08. Communications                            0   0.0           7    127.3          0   0.0                7    127.3    1
09. Urban Development                          1   1.0         12      73.6        0   0.0                13      74.6
10. Education                                 0   0.0           7      57.4       14  23.7                21     81.1
11. Population, Health and Nutricution        2   1.9           5      15.6        7  92.4                14    110.0
12. Social Affairs                            0   0.0           3       2.8        0   0.0                 3      2.8
13. Community Development                     0   0.0          12      13.9        3  35.9                15     49.8
14. Youth and Sports                          0   0.0           1       1.0        0   0.0                 1       .0
15. Statistics and Information                3   3.9           0       0.0        0   0.0                 3       3.9
16. Other Administrations                     9   8.2           2       7.3        6  12.5                17     28.0
17. Commerce                                  0   0.0           0       0.0        2   0.2                 2      0.2
18. Regional Development                      1   0.6           3      24.0        0   0.0                 4     24.6
TOTAL                                        37  60.5         111    898.5         38 181.1              186   1140.1
Share of Total Program Cost (1)            19.9   5.3        59.7      78.8     20.4  15.9             100.0    100.0
Id
o J



Table 3I  FY37 PUILIC IKVSTIUT PROGRAM  SY CZECUTIU  AG MCY AYD SOURCI CO 711AS101
(C illiLon)
---Doestlc FinancLng---         -------External Finanin         -     erag11
Project        Project                                  Agency   No. of  treasury  PubLiLc  Total          PL-4A0   Othe    Project   Vital      total
Code           Title                                   Acronym Projects              tats.                        Food ALd   k14
&tLwonal Alrport Authority                                A1N        2        0.0      3.1      3.1          0.0      a.a      13.7     19.7       27.3
National Port Authority                                   APH        5       0.0       3.7      3.7          0.0      0.0     10.      10.       14.0
Port-au-Prince Metropolitan Mater Authority              CADSP       1       3.5       0.0      3.5          0.0      0.0      21.4     27.4       50.9
Planning Cinlasarlat                                     CPU"      1i       12.1       0.0     12.1          3.0      0.6      I3.6     22.2       34.1
Center For Planning Tochnlque And 4Apiiud Econolca    CTPEA          1       2.2       0.0      2.2          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        2.2
Haiti Kiectricity                                         EdB        6       0.0      61.6    6J.1           0.0       0.0     75.3     75.3      143.3
Public Rousing Enterprise                                KPLS        7       4.6       0.0      4.6          0.0      0.0      28.6     28.6       35.2
Agronomy And Veterinary Faculty                           FAHV       1       1.3       0.0      1.3          0.0       0.2      3.9      4.1        5.4      14
Haitlan Statistical Institute                             loss       5        1.6      0.0      1.6          1.6       O0.      0.7      2.3        3.9
Instltute For Preservation Of the National Heritaga    15PAN         2       1.6      0.0       1.6          0.5      0.1       3.0      3.6        5.1
MiaLstry of Agriculture                                  KARNDR     46       16.3      0.0     16.3         45.2       5.5    210.4    261.1      277.4
Ministry of Social Affairs                                HAS        3       0.8       0.0      0.8          0.0       0.3      1.3      2.0        2.3
Mlnlstry of Commeres And Industry                         MCI        a        0.5    21.7      22.2          0.0       0.0     25.4     25.4       47.6
Ministry of National Education                            MEN       20        7.2      0.0      7.2           1.1      0.9     67 1       90.9     77.0
Nlnistry of Economy And FLnance                           MEr        2        0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0       0.0      1.5       1.5       1.S
Ministry of The Interior And Natlonal Defense             HIW0       I        7.5      0.0      7.5          0.0       2.5      0.0       2.5      10.0
ministry of Justice                                        KJ        L        3.0      0.0      3.0          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       3.0
Ministry of Health and Populatlon                         MSPP      17        1.9      0.0      1.9         26.0       0.0     92.3    111.3      120.7
go Executing Agency                                       NONt       6        0.0      0.0      0.0          5.2       0.5      0.3      6.4        6.4
National Civil Aviation Office                           OFIAC       1        0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0       0.0      1.6       1.3 O.O
Popular Education Office                                  OPP       1        1.2      0.0      1.2          0.0      0C0       0.5       0.1       1.7
NatLonal Mater Service                                    SUEP       7        1.3      0.0      1.3           0.3      0.0     11.3      12.0      15.3
SaltL Telecinmieatlons Compsny                           TELECOl     5        0.0     77.2     77.2           0.0      0.0     49.0      49.0     126.2
National Telovislon Of H&lti                              ?NH        1        0.7      0.0      0.7           0.0      0-0      0.0       0.0       0.7
MLnLstry of Public Wotks, Transport and Comaonications  TPTC        24       23.9      0.2     29.1          23.2     30.5     6216    116.2      15.3
State University of Haitl                                 UEU        1        1.5      0.0      1.5          0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        1.5
ToAL                                                              l6       100.0    179.5    279.5        106.5      40.9    713.2    360.6    1140.1
o   '-
-J



Table 4: FY87 PUBLIC INESThET PROGRAM  Y SIZ5  OF PROJEC  AND SOURCE OP FINACINO
(0 mIllion)
--DomestL FlnaaLnc---              - External  inacn -----    Overall
Project        Project                                  EuC.   Decor   Truaauy PubLic  Total             FL-AU8    Other    Direct  Domor    ToS 
Coe            Title                                 Maccr */                      Lac.                         Food Aid    ABA      Aid
08 V 06  OIDERf. i INSTALL. CENTRAUX TELEPHnozquES     TELEOO   CCCE        0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0     49.0    41.3        19.0
01 V 07 AMENACEINT RASSINS VERSANTS                      MA     US.WP       0.0      0.0      0.0           3.0      0.0     45.0      46.0      o.0
04 V 03 PROCoMU  DE DISTRIBUTION (P-AU-P/PROVINCES)    End       ccce       a.o     13.4      13.4          0.0      0.0     27.0     27.0       40.4
01 V 09 ORANISATION DE lCELOPPEMENT DU NORD              MA   IDA,OU.CFR    2.0      0.0       2.0          0.0      0.0     16.2    34.2        38.2
11 A 10 EXT.PROO.PWOT.NATERN.INFANT.-PLAM.FJAIL.         SPF?  US.We.,UM    0.0      0.0      0.0           5.0      0.0     32.5      37.5      37.5
07 V 73 PROGRAMSE TRANSPORT VII                         TPtC     IDA        4.0      0.2       4.2          0.0     30.0      0.0      W0.0      34.2
13 A 09 0ES1IOM AIDE ALIHENTAIRE PAM                     MA     YFP,US      0.7      0.0      0.7           3.3      0.0     30.0      33.3      34.0
04 V 05 INYESTISSEE NT DE ROUTINE                       g4        -         0.0     33.1      33.1          0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      33.1
04 V 01 PROGRAME DE PRODUCTION             IId                   IDA        0.0      4.3       4.5          0.0      0.0     25.5    2S.5        13.0
05 V 18 1ESSERTS EAU POTABLE ZONE IETRDPOLITAIHE       CAIW      CCCE       3.5      0.0       3.5          0.0      0.0     21.4      27.4      30.9
07 V 21 DEVELOPPDENNT ROUTES SECOIDAIRES                TfTC      us        0.0      O.C      0.0          20.3      0.0      4.6      27.3      27.3
10 V 10 EXPANSIOI SYSSE ECOLES PRDMAIRES L MOIMALES   HE         IDB        3.5      0.0       3.5          0.0      0.0     23.2      23.2      26.7
08 V U  COITATIO  ES TRANSHISSION                      tLEco     -         0.0     26.6    26.6            0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      21.6
03 V 35 EITENSION DU PARC INDUSTRIEL                    MCI      IDB        0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0     25.0      25.0      23.0
10 V 40 KICATIOU I IV ST FIN E0UC. III                   IE      IDA        1.4      0.0       1.I          0.0      0.0     23.0      23.0      14.4
07 V 62 ASLIORATIOM NAVIGATION AIaiE                    AF ra               0.0      4.3       4.3          0.0      0.0     19.7      lT.t      24.0
11 A 08 ONTROLS DE LA MALARIA                           NSPS   US,JAP       0.0      0.0      0.0           3.0      0.0     16.2    23.2        2.5.2
oa 169 3TISITS DE LA TELECO                            TELECO     -         0.0     22.7    22.7            0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      21.7           0
06 V 57 RISEAUX  XtERIEUS                              TELECO     -         0.0     21.7     21.7           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      21.7
04 P 04 PROGRAMS DETUDES                                cm1                 0.0      5.2       5.2          0.0      0.0     14.4      14.4      19.6
11 A 02 EXTENSIOI SEIIVICES SANTE RURALE                HSPF      us        0.0      0.0      0.0          10.0      0.0      9.2      19.1      15.2
09 V 28 DRAINE DE POlT-AU-PIINCE II                     TPTC    1D         3.5      0.0       3.5          0.0      0.0     14.1      14.6      13.1
03 V 32 IMSTISSEKIT CIECT D'AITI                        MCI       -         0.0     14.7    14.7            0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      14.7
01 V 00 ROUFRCE T DII  CREDIT RURAL                      MA     US.GER      0.0      0.0      0.0           7.5      0.0       7.0     14.5      14.5
10 A 51 FOIlTION A L'INACHEI                             HE      CAN        0.0      0.0      0.0           0.0      0.0      14.0     14.0      14.0
01 V 32 O.D. VALLUE DE L'ARTIDOITE (RICE)                MA  IDI,TaLwan    1.5       0.0       1.5          0.0      0.0      11.5     11.6      13.3
07 V 37 RUILITATION ROUTE IAT. I                        TPTC     IDA        4.0      0.0       4.0          0.0      0.0       9.0      9.0      13.0
01 V 33 O.D. PIAINE DES GONAIVES                         MA    CER,WFP      1.5       0.0      1.5          0.0      0.0      11.2     11.2      12.7
01 V  3 GSIIUTNATION PRODUCTION ACRICOLE                 MA      JAU        0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0      12.5     12.5      12.5
04 V 02 FCTS SPECIVIQUFS PAPJPROVINCES                  EdE                 0.0    11.2       11.2          0.0      0.0       0.7      0.7      11.3
01 V 12 DI-RIVIER  BLANICE CCUL 01 SAC)                  MA      IDB        1.0       0.0      1.0          0.0      0.0      10.0     10.0      11.0
09 V 16 LIUT1AD I PHASE II                            ESILS   GER(UfI)      1.0      0.0       1.0          0.0      0.0       9.1      9.1      10.1
01 r 05 ADS-I SUPPORT AU DEV.AGRICOLE                   MA       US        0.0       0.0      0.0          3.5      0.0       e.5     10.0       10.0
1S 1 03 EQUIPFEDUT DES Cames                            MIDI    Taivan      1.5      0.0       7.5          0.0      2.5       0.0      2.5      10.0
TOTAL OW LAME PROJECTS                                     34              35.1    157.6   192.7           57.8     32.5    521.7    612.0    804.6
TOTAL 0O  ALL PROJECTS                                    186             100.0   179.5    Z79.5          106.5     40.9    713.2   860.6    1140.1
LAME P10 .C e 1    AS PERCENTAGE OF ALL PROJECTS         16.3               35.1    51.8    63.9           54.3      79.4     73.1     71.1      70.6         1 
a/  Pfler to Table 3 for full came of exacutLDg agencies.                                                                                                     lb



-61 -
AMI    VII
Page 1 of 3
TCU          ASI4K  P2W
Project Cost Katlates an! flmdM  P1an
(U9$ '000)
Table I - Owvall
(SieffiY         re) Fo  local  lbtaml   1    ('t  PI 1'rv.
I.   Piblic
Sector
Managemnt
(Table 2)       74         930      240    1,170     995   175
II. Envirommental
Studies         18         180       26      206    180    26        -    -
III. Restructuring
Industrial Restructuring and Development
(Table 3)      131       1,211      766   1,977   1,743      20    79  135
IV. Future Studies
and Other Techaical
Assistance     -            82       15       97      82    15      -    -
TOTAL           223      2,403    1,047    3,450   3,000/ 236    79  135
a/ Includes US$1,200,000 advanced under the Project Preparation Facility.



- 62 -
UNNEX VII
'. g 2 of 3
Project Cost Kstli_tes and F1sancin- Pln
(US$ '000)
Table 2 - Public Sector Mamgeueot Component
Subcomponent               Coot Estimate             Propoesd Fi u_ clog
Forelgo   Local   Total    IDA    Govorument
Credit
Macroeconomic Advice           160        26     186      160           26
Consultant (16 months)        160        -      160      160           -
Counterpart Staff, Office
and Logistical Support          -       26       26        -          26
Public Expenditure             490       64      4-S     490           64
Consultants  (19 months)    190          -      190     190            -
Counterpart Staff, Office
and Logistical Support          -       64       64       -           64
Computer Hardware and
Software                    300         -      300     300            -
Public Se: vice Eoployment
and P&-                        40       48       88      80            8
Consultants  (12 months)       40       40       80      80            -
Counterpart Staff, Office
and Logistical Support          -        8        8        -           8
Financial Monitorlng of
Public Enterprises              30        -       30      30            _
Consultants  (3 months)        30        -       30      30
Ciment d'Halti                  20        _       20      20_
Consultants  (2 months)        20        -       20      20            -
Trade Drawback System           50       28       78      50           28
Consultants  (4 months)        40        -       40       t0           -
Counter part Staff, Office    -
and Logistical Support          -       28       28       -           28
Computer Hardware and
Software                       10        -       10      10
State Land Rentals              70       30      100      85           15
Consultants  (9 months)        60       15       75      75            _
Counterpart Staff, Office
and Logistical Support          -       15       15       -           15
Computer Hardware and
Software                       10        -       10      10            -
Alternatives to Sugarcane In the
Plaine de Nord                  40       18       58      50            8
Consultants  (6 months)        40       10       50      50            -
Counterpart Staff, Office
and Logistical Support          -        8        8       -            8
Start-tp and Management         30       26       56      30           26
Consultant (3 months)          30        -       30      30            -
Counterpart Staff, Office
and Logistical Support          -       26       26       -           26
TOTAL                      930       240   1,170      995a/        175
m        ,     _  r       _P     t
a/ Includes US$450,000 advanced under the ProJect Preparation Facility.



- 63 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
Prolect Cost  Istmates and  in-ancin  plan
(US$ '000)
Table 3 - IndustriAl Reatructriug mai  D Uyloumt Cemat
qtki100   ot          Coat Estiut.                          Financing
ForeW i   lcal   Total    TE MI               v6rDiiFfvate
Credit                   nIim
Iodustrlal lInetiavu
Study                   270       143     413      393     20        -      -
Consultants for Tariff
Reform (26 months)    245         93     338      338      -        -      -
Administrative Costs
and Contingencies       25        30      55       55      -
Counterpart Staff,
Office and Logistlcal
Support                  -       20       20        -     20       -
731 Operating Costs Related
to Restructuring        286       446     732      653      -       79      _
Salaries of 2
consultants              -       100     100      100      -        -      -
(24 months)
Salaries of staff        -       111     111       61      -       50      -
Other                    -        96      96       67      -       29      -
Consultant to FDI
Nanagement
(24 months)            261       114     375     375       -        -      -
Contingencies           25        25      50       50      -        -      -
Didga!l d AnL-Deptb
As-aZE _s Studle_       655       177     832      697      -             135
Coasultants for diagnosis
(12 months)            115        42     157     157       -        -      -
Consultants for In-
Depth Analysis
(45 months)            540      135      675     540       -       -    135
TOTAL              1,211       766   1.977   1.743`/   20        79    135
-                             m _    -     _
a/ Includes US$750,000 advanced under the Project Preparation Facility.



- b4 -
Annex VIII
DRAFT TM=h  OF RZRM=FDC  FOR A
PUBLIC SEMCR       1       COMPONENT
Table of Conteata
A. Macroeconomic Adviser
B. Public Expenditure
Project Selection and Monitoring
Public Development Expenditure Budgeting
Current Treasury Expenditure Budgeting
Coordination of Public Wage Bill Increases
C. Public Service Pay and Employment Study
D. Financial Monitoring of Public Enterprises
E. Trade Drawback System
F. Study to Prepare Plan for Increasing Rents on State Lands
G. Study of Sugar Cane and Alternative Crop Development in the
Plaine du Nord.



- 65 -                  Annex VIII - A
iuCRoucOuaac ADnSE
DRAFT TNS OF REFEUCE
Objective
1.        The Government of Haiti is engaged in implementing a major Economic
Recovery Program. The Ministry of Economy and Finance wishes to improve its
macroeconomic analytic capacity during this period.
Proposed Approach
2.        One full-time experienced consultant would be engaged to advise the
Minister of Economy and Finance and to train relevant Ministry staff. The
consultant would be financed from the proceeds of an IDA Technical Assistance
Credit.
Scope of Work
3.        The consultant would advise the Mini-ter, conduct appropriate
macroeconomic analyses, assess the economic training needs of the Ministry
and draw up and implement a plan to meet them. The scope of work is
deliberately open-ended to permit flexibility in this assignment.
Inputs, Outputs and Timing
4.        It is estimated that 16 staffmonths of international expertise will
be required from March 1987 to June 1988. A report on the Ministry's
training needs should be submitted to the Minister of Economy and Finance and
to IDA four months after starting the assignment.
Counterpart Inputs
5.        The Ministry of Economy and Finance will provide office space and
necessary logistical support. No specific counterpart staff will be assigned
but the consultant will work with all the Ministry's economic staff.



- 66 -
Annex VIII - B
Page 1 of 5
PUBLIC KEPENDITURE
DRAFT TERSS OF RXERENCK
Objective.
1.        The Government intends to continue to carry out the major
reallocation of public expenditure which it has undertaken since February
1986. The easiest and quantitatively the most important part of the
reallocation process is being completed In FY87; the most glaring waste and
obvious fraud have been eliminated from the current Treasury budget as well
as from the Public Investment Program. The most difficult, albeit
quantitatively less apparent, part of the reallocation process remains to be
done. It will consist of establishing in the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MEF) and the National Promotion and Public Service Coomission (CPNAP)
improved planning, budgeting and disbursement control procedures designed to
ensure that at the various stages of public expenditure national priorities
prevail over personal or special interest, including donors' interests.  This
Implies institutional and attitudinal changes. It will require modifying
cumbersome and often inappropriate existing procedures, and introducing
Improvements that will modify long established ranks, responsibilities and
working habits of public servants in MNF and CPNAP.
2.        The objective of the Public Expenditure subcomponent would be to
assist NEF and CPNAP in defining and introducing such improvements. More
specifically, it would seek to:
(i) Improve project selection and monitoring at CPNAP;
(ii) Establish development expenditure budgeting within CPNAP and
NEF;
(iii) Strengthen current Treasury expenditure budgeting at NEF;
and
(iv) Establish coordination of public wage bill increases.
Scope of Work
1. Project Selection and Monitoring
3.        In the past, project preparation, evaluation and monitoring was
grossly inadequate. For a sizeable part of the public investment program,
rates of return were not calculated, least cost alternatives were not
examined and expected impacts were not estimated, especially on the
G'hvernment's budget. Similarly, project monitoring was not built into
project design and organization from the start. Perhaps because it is too
complex and ambitious, the monitoring system introduced by the Ministry of
Planning in 1985 has not worked effectively.



- 67 -
Annex VIII - B
Page 2 of f
4.        As a result of the above situation, project selection was poor,
often dictated by donors' preferences rather than by national priorities and
domestic resource availability. Project revisions were seldom made, even
though projects may have been ill designed or counterproductive (a large part
of agricultural credit went to consumption, for instance). There were also
disruptions in project implementation or operation that were caused by
shortages of local counterpart funds or non-wage operating funds (e.g.,
public schools and health clinics). In brief, the public investment mix was
far from being as good as it could have been and returns to public
investments were low and slow to materialize. The absence of strong planaLng
units in executing agencies means that a new attempt must be made at CPNAP to
improve the situation.
5.        A consultant would be engaged, financed from the proceeds of an IDA
Technical Assistance Credit, to:
(1) Review main ongoing projects in the four development-
oriented ministries (Agriculture, Education, Health, Public
'Works) and related enterprises with a view to propose
revislon, if needed;
(ii) review new projects of the four ministries and related
enterprises with a view to propose, if necessary, additional
study of technical design, economic justification and
expected impacts;
(iii)  review the FIOP system and suggest improvements in its
design and operation at the project selection stage and for
monitoring purposes. This would address the problems of
coordination at that stage between CFNAP and MEF, the
executing ministries, enterprises and donors;
(iv) train CPKAP sectoral staff, after suitable organizational
changes have been made;
(v) determine computerization needs and suggest the purchase of
appropriate equipment;
(vi) exaine the need for an interministerial public investment
committee, with CPNAP serving as a secretariat, propose the
composition and working procedures of the committee and, if
approved, assist in its initial operation.
II. Public Dhelopmet Expenditure Budgeting
6.        Public development expenditure budgeting represents the annual
slicing of the projects retained through the project selection and monitoring



- 68 -
Annex VIII - B
Page 3 of 5
screening process. It is crucial in Haiti since multiannual project
authorizations do not exiset as part of the regular annual budgetlng
procedures. It suffers from the deficlencies highllghted under project
selection and monitoring as well as from problems of its own.
7.        First among the latter is the fact that the annual budgeting
process starts much too late in the year, several months after the date fixed
by the organic decree on budgeting procedures. Second, the information base,
on which a budget must be built, is grossly insufficient because the FIOP
system does not work and factual data are dispersed among executing domestic
and external agencies. As a result, the annual budgeting process ends in
last minute confusion with counterpart fund requirements inadequately
provided for and unjustilfied projects inadvertently Included in the annual
program. legally, under those circumstances, public investment allocations
In the annual Public Investment Program are indicative forecasts of
expenditure, not binding expenditure ceilings. Thus, they may be, and often
are, changed radically in the course of the fiscal year. In this process,
coordination between CPNAP (the budgeting authority) and the financing
sources (MEF, executing ministries or agencies, publlc enterprises and
external aid institutions) is poor. In addition, the balance between current
and investment budgets for each ministry is rarely taken into account with
consequently damaging shortages of non-wage operating funds.
8.        Modest technical assistance through four one-month visits of a
senior international consultant would, first, attempt to mobilize CPNAP
senior officials around the objective of improving the annual budgeting
process. Second, once this mobilization seems strong enough, it would assist
in introducing changes to the existing FIOP system designed to turn it into a
workable system.
9.        The content of this assistance would therefore include a brief
initial review of the existing situation, focused on recent experience in two
executing ministries and corresponding external aid sources. The review
would be used to elicit CPMA.P senior officials' concern over deficiencies and
to give theit support of desirable and easily feasible improvements. Changes
in the FIOP system would be suggested and, if approved, they would be
introduced. These changes would be fully coordinated with those necessary
for adequate project selection and monitoring. They would alm at making the
system not only a budgeting tool for CPNAP, but also an instrument
facilitating coordination with MEF, other ministries, public enterprises and
donors. Elementary computerization of the FIOP system and the purchase of
related hard and software would be recommended.
III. Current TIresaury Expenadiure Budgeting
10.       The elimination of obvious waste and fraud has been substantial
since February 1986. It has enabled the Government to reallocate sizeable



- 69 -
Annex VIII - B
Page 4 of 5
funds to education, health and other priority objectives. Yet, the
reallocation process Is not completed, especially within ministries as
between development and non-development purposes and within current
expenditure as between wage and non-wage spending. In addition, the MEF
Budget Office is not adequately organized to see the reallocation process
through.
11.       The senior international consultant retained to assist with
development expenditure budgeting would also assist in strengthening the
Budget Office by:
(1)    Reviewing briefly, but in sufficient detail, the
organization, staffing and procedures of the office, which
currently employs only about 35 persons. The review would
be conducted along sectoral lines (by ministry and agency)
and cross-sectoral lines (by main expenditure category such
as wages, motor vehicles and electricity consumption, for
example). It would also cover the coordination arrangements
with CPNAP;
(ii)   based on this review, desirable changes would be suggested
to the Minister of Economy and Finance and, if approved,
initial implementation would be undertaken.
IV. Coordliatlon of Public Wage Bill Increases
12.       With the exception of the elimination of fraudulent paychecks since
August 1986, public wage bills are not controlled. As a result, recruitment
is excessive and wage increases are dictated by emplo-te pressure. The share
of salaries in current Government expenditure has reacned an excessively high
level. Rising labor costs cause deficits or high prices in the public
monopolies. These trends, if left unchecked, could prove inflationary.
13.       Technical assistance would assist in establishing an inter-
ministerial wage coordination commission, chaired preferably by the head of
Government's personal representative, and in setting up a secretariat to this
commission and defining its duties. This commission would be concerned
solely with wage increases and recruitment. The civil service size, wage
scructure and other work rules would remain outside the scope of this
technical assistance element but would be addressed through the Public
Service Pay and Employment Study (Annex VIII-C).
14.       A consultant would, after obtaining the Government's commitment to
the establishment of such a commission, assist in drafting the decree to
establish it and spell out its powers. The consultant would also assist the
secretariat in defining its working procedures. The President would
designate his personal representative to chair the commission and oversee the
functioning of its secretariat.



- 70 -
ANNEX VIII - B
Page 5 of 5
Inputs, Outputs and Timing
15.       A senior international adviser would be required to make four
separate one-month visits to Haiti over 15 months from May 1987-June 1988 to
oversee this technical assistance. This consultant would also provide
directly the required technical assistance for public development expenditure
budgeting, current Treasury expenditure budgeting and the coordination of
wage bill increases. At the end of each visit, the consultant would submit a
report to the Minister of Economy and Finance and to IDA on progress and
recommendations.
16.       The project selection and monitoring subcomponent would require the
full-time services of a senior international consultant (project economist)
for 15 months from February 1987.
17.       A total of 19 staffmonths of consulting services would thus be
required.
Counterpart Inputs
l.       MEF and CPNAP would provide necessary office space, logistical
support and counterpart staff. A senior CPNAP official would be appointed to
co-manage the project selection and monitoring component and, eventually, to
act as head of the secretariat to the proposed interministerial public
investment committee.



- 71 -
Annex VIII - C
Page 1 of 3
PUBLIC SERVICE PAY D EMPLOXHENT STUDY
DEAFT TEENS OF REFERENCE
ObjectiveB
1.        The Haitian civil service suffers from grave structural deficien-
cies. It is characterized by low levels of efficiency, severe overstaffing
in certain areas and shortages of key skills in others. Substantial,
prolonged decliues in levels of average remuneration have lowered morale and
encouraged civil servants to seek supplemental income in ways which are
inconsistent with an efficient and dependable public service. The Government
therefore wishes, as part of its Economic Recovery Program, to undertake a
major and far-reaching reform of both the structure and remuneration of the
civil service. Improving the productivity and remuneration of the civil
service is an indispensable prerequisite for a successful and durable
economic reform. To initiate the restructuring process, the Government
wishes to engage the services of a consultant, to be financed from the
proceeds of an IDA Technical Assistance Credit, to carry out a study which
would give immediate and direct policy advice with regard to the structure,
functioning and remuneration of the civil service.
2.        The study should, inter alia, provide a basis for policy decisions
concerning the reorganization of the service and its methods of functioning
In order to rectify known deficiencies and to make the service a more
effective instrument for the achievement of national objectives.
Scope of Work
3.        The consultant will examine current levels of staffing in the
Central Administration and determine ways to reduce staff levels where these
are found to be excessive. The objective of these reductions would be the
accomodation of increases in remuneration, which are required at certain
levels to attract and retain qualified staff, at an acceptable budgetary
cost. The study would therefore proceed on two axes, one concerned with
employment levels and the other with remuneration.
4.        Concerning employment, the consultant will, through interviews and
analysis of available data, determine the overall dimensions of the public
service employment problem and will estimate in broad terms any excess over
the number required to perform expected services effectively. Using these
estimates, the consultant will produce a specific, timed strategy for
rationalization which would include the identification of priority ministries
and also of the range of skills which are in short supply for the
implementation of the Government's economic recovery program.
5.        The consultant will advise the Government concerning the most
appropriate method of achieving staffing reductions and will help to devise a
strategy based on the following steps which are broadly set out in increasing
order of difficulty:



- 72 -
Annex VIII - C
Page 2 of 3
(a) elimination of nominally filled but de facto non-filled
positions ("ghost" workers);
(b) elimination of vacant establishment posts;
(c) attrition (a hiring freeze and non-replacement of retirees or
those who resign);
(d)  elimination of rights of automatic entry (if any) to
university graduates or other groups;
(e) reduction and stricter regulation of casual and temporary
labor;
(f) lowering the statutory retirement age (paying particular
attention to the budgetary consequences of pension obligations
and difficulties arising from imperfect age records);
(g) encouraging voluntary retirement or resignation, including a
possible link to performance testing, and paying particular
attention to the budgetary implications of compensation;
(h) as a final stage, if necessary, the involuntary retirement or
dismissal of public servants.
6.        In assisting the Government in developing the strategy, the
consultant will pay particular attention to the skilled manpower requirements
of effective policy-making and implementation and will devise safeguards to
ensure that needed skilled manpower is not dismissed in order to achieve
target numbers. Attention will also be paid to the legal implications for a
reduction program of acquired and statutory rights including, if applicable,
the right of tenure in the established civil service. Recommendations should
be made concerning the broad changes in the legal framework required to carry
out the suggested strategy.
7.        Concerning remuneration, the consultant will carry out:
(a) an analysis of the current system of remuneration of
Government employees, including the relative importance of
base salary and fringe benefits and the impact of any bonus
system;
(b) an analysis of the current distribution of the wage bill among
the various departments and the various personnel categories,
so as to measure the fiscal burden of the Government wage
bill;
(c) an analysis of the existing system of personnel management in
the public administration Crecruitment, promotion, transfers
and postings, on-the-job training, etc.);



- 73 -
Annex VIII - C
Page 3 of 3
(d) a comparison of pay levels and differentials in the public
administration to those in the parastatal and private sectors,
primarily for the purpose of investigating the extent to which
Government employees are "underpaid;f
(e) administratively and financially feasible recommendations for
improving the current system (e.g., salary differentials and
levels, incentives for productivity, new sources of funds to
pay higher salaries, etc.); and
(f) the adequacy of the link between financial and manpower
budgeting.
Iuputs, Output. end Timing
8.        It is estimated that the work will require about four staffmonths
of international expertise and eight staffmonths of local expertise. It is
essential that the local consulting team be headed by someone in close
contact with, and enjoying the full confidence of pollcymakers. Four months
after commencing work, the consultants will submit to the Ministry of Economy
and Finance and to IDA a draft report analyzing the current situation and
recommending a strategy for future action on civil service pay and
employment. The report will also identify possible future work requirements
covering longer term topics such as:
(a) the adequacy of manpower planning and establishment functions;
(b)  the adequacy of personnel polii; and career planning
(including systems of job grading, appointment, promotion,
etc.);
(c) training policy and its implementation; and
(d) review of the structure of Government and the allocation of
portfolios among departments.
Counterpart Inputs
9.        The Ministry of Economy and Finance and the National Promotion and
Public Service Commission will provide all necessary information and
logistical support to the consultants.



- 74 -                    ANNEX VIII - D
FIUNNIAL  ONITOtG OF PUBLIC  U
DRT TENS oC
Objectives
L.        The Ministry of Economy and Finance (HEF) wishes to improve its
financial monitoring of public enterprises (PEs), not with a view to
decreasing their managerial autonomy, but to ensure that their actions are
consistent with the broader aims of Government policy. The flow of
financial information from the PEe to the Government, including data on
proposed investments, is currently inadequate. To addrecs thls, a unit Las
been established In MEE to gather and analyze financial information from
PEs, including accounts, budgets, corporate plans and investment programs.
This unit will, initially, restrict itself to financial monitoring;
eventually, however, the unit would be able to advise the Minister on
policy towards PEs, on the negotiation of targets and on the respective
roles of KEF and technical tutelle ministries.
Proposed Approacb
2.        An experienced international consultant would be attached to the
unit In order to: (i) develop detailed terms of reference for the unit In
both the short- and medium-term; (ii) train unit staff; and (iii) provide
direct advice to the Minister of Economy and Finance concerning policy
options towards PEs.
Inputs, Outputs and Timing
3.        It is estimated that three staffmonths of international
consultancy will be required from June 1987. A report on (i) the current
status of the monitoring unit; (ii) its future training needs; and (iii)
its detailed terms of reference should oe submitted to the Ministry of
Economy and Finance at least three weeks before the end of the assignment
to allow time for discussions and modifications. The report should also
contain an assessment of the current relationship between the Central
Government and PEs in Haiti including the quantity and quality of financial
information provided to the former.
Counterpart Inpats
4.        The unit has already been established, under the Office of the
Budget Director, and its staff will be the full-time counterparts to the
consultant. MEF will also provide the consultant with office space and
necessary logistical support.



- 75 -
Annex VIII - E
Page I of 3
TRADE DRAWBACK SYSTEM
DRAFT TRUIS OF RRENCE
Objectives
1.        The present overhaul of industrial incentives intends to eliminate
biases against export-oriented activities. The administration of the
different Customs regimes Is a primary condition to an efficient
implementation of the trade reforms. More specifically, the export regimes
(Admission temporaire, Entrepot sous Douane, Drawback) should put exports in
free trade status by permitting automatic and speedy access to duty free
imports. The value-added on exports by firms mostly operating for the local
market, and therefore paying duties and indirect taxes on imported inputs,
should be on the same footing as that of foreign competitors or firms
operating solely for export. The Government wishes to engage consultants to
draw up a plan to achieve this; financing will come from the proceeds of the
IDA Technical Assistance Credit.
Proposed Approach
2.        Ideally, the Admission temporaire, which enables the use of
duty-free imports for direct reexports or as inputs for exports, should only
be used by firms not operating in the local market. All firms operating on
both the local and export markets should work with the Drawback System.
Import duties are paid in full when intermediate goods enter the country
(nationalisation des biens) and refunded, or credited, when the final good
they go into are exported. Ideally, the scheme should include the refund of
tariffs paid on indirect imported inputs (i.e. imported by local suppliers of
the final exporter). Given the weakness of the Customs administration and
the low level of integration of local industry, this last aspect may not be
practicable initially.
3.        In principle, and assuming that Customs can keep track of the uses
of the goods under the different regimes (in the case of the Drawback, this
means knowing the physical input/output coefficients of the exported good)
and the switches between regimes, both systems can achieve the same
objective: the separation of the local and export markets within firms'
operations. The adequacy of each regime for a fitm's operations depends
essentially on the relative importance of its local and export sales as well
as its local and import inputs. The Drawback system is costly in revolving
funds for firms with a high share of exports with high import content. But
it is appropriate for occasional exporters. On the Customs side, experience
shows that the temporary admission scheme is very porous and is a major
source of fraud when uncontrolled goods are put to local consumption. It Is
difficult for Customs to follow a priori the firm in;st/output flow on the
different markets to be able to determine its validity for a specific good.
The Drawback System puts the administrative burden on the original informer,



- 76 -                    Annex VIII - E
Page 2 of 3
the producer, and leaves the responsibility of an ex-post control to
Customs. An endorsable drawback title (transferable as government liability
and eligible to pay taxes) limits the transitory financial cost and the risk
of public arrears for the private sector. It is therefore preferable and the
Government intends to introduce it.
Scope of Work
4.        Consultanta ahould:
(i)  review and audit the existing regimes (gather decrees and
legal documents; determine the adequacy of eligibility
criteria and documentation; test procedural efficiency in
terms of reliability of information and processing time;
potential for fraud; list and typol gy of beneficiaries;
etc.);
(ii) identify and evaluate their inefficiencies;
(iii) make recommendations for their improvement and for the deseign
and introduction of a Drawback system.
(iv) assist in the implementation of these recommendations through:
(a) reorganized procedures;
(b) drafting new decrees, Customs documentation formulae;
(c) organizing a computerized monitoring unit; and
(d) organizing the training of Customs officials.
5.        The Drawback system should guarantee:
(a) speedy, automatic access and equal treatment for all products
and firms;
(b)  a perfect duty-free access to imported inputs for exports;
(c)  a minimum administrative cost for exporters;
(d)  a minimum opportunity for abuse by exporters (easily
monitorable);
(e)  sufficient legal dispositions to establish stringent
discipline with the duty-free import administration, including
tight processing time limits.



- 77 -
Annex VIII - E
Page 3 of 3
Inputis Outputs and Tindlg
6.        Four staffmonths of consultant services by an experienced Customs
specialist are expected to be necessary, approximately two for the study and
recommendation plan (paras. 4 (i), (ii), (iii)) Pnd two for the
implementation plan (para. 4 (iv)). A report should be submitted to the
Government and to IDA after two months, following completion of the first
phase.
Counterpart Inputs
7.        The Ministty of Economy and Finance, including its Customs Service,
and the Ministry of Comerce and Industry would provide all necessary
information and logistical support.



- 78 -
Ariex VIII - F
Page 1 of 2
STUDY TO PREPARE PLAN FOB INCREASING REErS OR STATE LARDS
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Objectives
1.        The Government of Haiti is planning to increase the levels of rents
it receives under lease contracts for rural lands belonging to the State.
Specifically, it has indicated that it intends to raise such reats to be
fully consistent with Article 5 of a Presidential Decree dated September 22,
1964, which provides that these rents shall be 61 of the real and present
market value of the leased State property. Responsibility for establishing
and collecting such rents rests with the Bureau des Domaines (BD) of the
Direction Generale des Impots in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The
Government wishes to engage consultants to prepare a plan to do this,
financed from the proceeds of an IDA Technical Asslstance Credit.
Proposed Approach
2.        It is appreciated that not all lease contrq:ts may be up to date,
and there may be errors of omission or fact in BD's records, e.g. with regard
to the size and specific locations of the areas leased. Also, the provisions
of the above-mentioned Decree, and of other relevant laws and decrees, may be
such as to preclude early implementation of Increased rents in a way that may
be considered equitable and fair under more propitious circumstances. The
consultants, therefore, should prepare a two-phase program; the first to
enable implementation of appropriate increases in rents, under new or renewed
leases, to be effective October 1, 1987, and the second to prepare the
framework for a rational, soundly based program, which may include changes to
the law, to be introduced systematically over the longer term.
Scope of Work
3.        The consultants, thus, shall:
(a) consolidate all existing infirmation pertaining to State rural
lands, and compile an inventory of such lands, by region, by
quality and/or by use, as appropriate;
(b) review the status of present lease contracts (accuracy and
consistency of information), identifying as far as possible
omissions and erroneous information, both in BD's main office
in Port-au-Prince and in its regional offices;
(c) review present methods for renewing leases, or drawing up new
ones, for verifying information and for establishing land
values and rent levels;



- 79 -
Annex VIII - P
Page 2 of 2
(d) assess the quality and quantity of BD's main office and
regional staff and physical resources;
(e) define the objectives, logistics (inclutding staff training,
incremental resources and incremental costs), legal
implications and administrative procedures for implementing a
practical program for Increasing rents on State rural lands to
market levels from October 1, 1987;
(f) prepare a program, including proposed amendments to present
laws and decrees, for implementing a soundly based, equitable
system of rents on State rural lands over the long tern.
4.        In carrying out both (e) and (f) above, the consultants shall give
appropriate consideration to inter alia, unimproved vs. improved values,
lease payment schedules, terns of leases and timing of rent reassessments,
rights of lessees to sublease or to sell their rights of lease, the right of
the State to terminate lease contracts and under what conditions, and the
extent to which lessees should be required to live on their leased land or
otherwise demonstrate that they are making use of the land in a productive
manner. The consultants also shall bear in mind that it is the Government's
intention to: raise rents on State urban lands; prepare or complete national
rural and urban cadasters; and establish a system of property taxes. The
focus of the present consultancy, however is on rural lands and specifically
rents on State rural lands.
Inputs, Outputs ad Timing
5.        The consultancy is expected to require six staffmonthe of
international consulting services, three staffmonths of local consulting
services, and to last three months. It is thus assumed that the primary
consultants will engage at least one Haitian consultant for the assignment.
The study should begin as soon as possible. Also, as far as reasonably
possible, BD staff should be included in all facets of the work.
6.        A brief interim report would be submitted a- the end of the first
two months of the assignment. The final report and recommendations would be
submitted within three months.
Counterpart Inputs
7.        BD would provide office space, and secretarial and other logistical
support (including transport if needed) for the period of the assignment.



- 80 -
Annex VIII - G
Page 1 of 2
STUDY OF SUEAR CANE AND ALTERNATIVE CROP DEmELOWIKE IN THE PLANE DU HORD
DRAFT TEURS OF REFERENCE
Objective.
I.        The Government wishes to engage consultants, financed from the
proceeds of an IDA Technical Assistance Credit, to assess and make
recommendations on the use of land, labor, and capital in the areas that
provide sugar cane to the Usine Sucriere du Nord (USN) sugar factory in the
Plamne du Nord. The reasons for carrying out the study include the
following:
(a) from a policy viewpoint, Haiti should adapt systematically to
reductions in the US import quotas for raw sugar and to the
impact on intarnational trade in sugar of the changing
structure of world-wide supply and demand for sugar and other
sweeteners;
(b)  limited quantities of sugar cane are offered by farmers for
sale to USN, causing thereby: (i) substantially higher unit
costs of production than if the level of 1.ctory utilization
were closer to the factory's processing capacity; and (ii) a
low proportion of ex-factory revenues being passed to cane
producers;
(c) in the past few years USN has incurred large operating
deficits that have been absorbed by the public sector
commercial banks and has also been established to be
uneconomic in various World Bank reports; and
(d) a general concern about the impact on USN of sugar smuggled to
Haiti from the Dominican Republic.
Proposed Approach and Scope of Work
2.        The study would analyze opportunities for, and constraiats to,
agricultural development in tILe Plaine du Nbrd. It would consider ways to
rationalize centrifugal sugar production in the area, and would review
technically feasible and economically viable alternatives to sugar cane
production and processing. It would assume the eventual closure of USN. The
study would also address the feasibility of technological change, for sugar
cane and alternative crops, considering farmers' historic cropping practices,
their customary concern for food and cash security, and the traditional role
of the guildives in the purchase of cane and the provision of informal credit
to smallholders. The economic viability of alternative crops and other
possible approaches to diversification, including irrigation rehabilitation
and improved drainage, would be assessed through, inter alia, comparative
advantage analyses. The logistics and risks of securing markets (foreign and



- 81 -
Annex VIII - C
Page 2 of 2
domestic) for diversified products, and the long-term growth potential of
such markets, would also be addressed.
3.        The study would present detailed recommendations on:
(a)  whether the Plaine du Nord should continue to produce sugar
cane after USN is closed;
(b) as USN should be closed, the diversified crops and their
locations, together with technical assistance, research,
credit, marketing infrastructure and other support to
facilitate the transition;
(c) a management structure to guide implementation of the
recommended diversification activities; and
(d) disposition of USN's assets and alternatives for financing its
debts.
4.        It should be noted that the study is primarily an economic one,
analyzing the long-term economic opportunities or cost advantage of
continuing to grow sugar cane or of diversifying to other crops in the Plaine
du Nord area. It should be noted also that the Government is concerned about
the problems and prospects for Haiti's sugar subsector as a whole. In this
context, it should be borne in mind that, at US 24 cents/lb, the officially
controlled ex-factory price of raw sugar for domestic sales is around five
times the current world price, twice the unit preduction cost of an efficient
sugar producer, and 30% above the price received for sales under the US
import quotas.
Inputs, Outputs and Timing
5.        It is expected that the study would require about six staffmonths
of consultant time, including two staffmonths of local consulting services,
to be spent over a period of around three months, beginning as soon as
possible. The final report would be submitted to the Minister of Economy and
Finance and to IDA.
Counterpart Inputs
6.        The Government and the National Commerce Bank (the owner of USN)
would provide all information and support necessary for the consultants to
carry out their work.



- 82 -
ANNEX IX
Page I of 5
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR AN
ENVIRONHENTAL STUDIES CONPONENT
Objectives
1.       Land degradation, primarily soil erosion, has reached critical
levels in Haiti. Deforestation on the hillsides has reduced watershed
protection and led to siltation of irrigation channels on the plains and
less hydroelectric potential because of reservoir siltation. The Government
recognizes the problem and has begun to adopt policies and make investments
to stem the deterioration of the natural environment, e.g., reforestation
projects and the reduction of the coffee export tax to encourage planting of
soil-binding coffee trees on hillsides. These efforts remain piecemeal,
however. A comprehensive approach is needed if a major potential
car4strophe--both environmental and human--is to be averted. The Government
therefore wishes to retain consultants to identify and prioritize policy
interventions and investments; financ'ng will come from the proceeds of an
IDA Technical Assistance Credit.
Proposed Approach
2.       Land degradation Is an intricate problem involving a complex
combination of physical and socioeconomic causes and effects. The study
will therefore use an approach which integrates environmental and natural
resource management directly into economic and social policy. Much work has
been done on specific geographical zones in Haiti; this now needs to be
brought together and linked with wider analysis. The study should therefore
examine the nature and severity of natural resource degradation in light of
economic and social criteria; the underlying causes (both human and
naturally-occuring) of land degradation; and the range of feasible economic,
social and institutional policy interventions and investment programs that
are appropriate to the sltuation.
Scope of Work
3.       The study will fall into three phases:  Assessment, Evaluation, and
Strategy Development.
4.       During the Assessment phase, consultants should:
(1) Evaluate the degree and extent of the land degradation Eroblem
in Haiti:
(a) develop an operational definition of land degradation;
(b) review available source materials for empirical evidence of
degradation (loss of forest cover, soil erosion) at a
national level;
(c) target critically degraded areas on a continuum (least to
most); identify the areas most susceptible to degradation
in the future; identify areas suitable for rehabilitation;
and



- 83 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 5
(d) assess the degree to which the problems of degrading and
eroding lands are understood and make specific
recommendations for improving programs aimed at providing
operational data related to degradation problems.
(ii) Identify and describe the apparent causative factors which
have led to accelerated degradation:
(a) identify the predominant physical factors influencing
erosion: topography, precipitation, soil erosivity
conditions, vegetative cover;
(b) evaluate the extent to which local attitudes and
constraints contribute to the problem (e.g., poverty,
ignorance, profit motive, indifference, etc.);
(c) assess the impact of population growth on degradation; and
(d) assess the degree to which local activities accelerate
degradation processes. Include specific reference to
factors such as:
- indiscriminate cutting for fuelwood and construction;
- improper land use and cultivation practices;
-  land allocation and tenure systems;
- slash and burn agriculture;
- improperly executed civil works (house and road
construction, etc.): and
- overgrazing (if any).
(iii)    Identify and assess the existing soil erosion control
measures and associated actions currently being undertaken
in Haiti:
(a) identify leading government agencies, NGOs and aid donors
working on problem;
(b) describe existing legislative framework relating to land
use, environmental, conservation, forestry pulicies;
(c) identify and evaluate existing preventive/conservation and
management programs and projects;



- 84 -
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 5
(d) identify and evaluate existing forest conservation and
management programs;
(e) evaluate existing policy economic incentives and
disincentives for promoting conservation (taxes,
subsidies, penalties, etc.);
(f) identify existing constraints to program implementation
(technical, administrative, financial, manpower, etc.);
and
(g) identify gaps which exist between existing policies and
enforcement/monitoring capability.
5.       The Evaluation phase will determine the net economic effect, today
and in the future, of land degradation in Haiti. (This attempt to identify
future trends will be critical to design interventions in the third phase).
Consultants should:
(a) identify and evaluate the major onsite and offaite
impacts of land degradation/soil erosion. This should
include specific reference to the economic and social
consequences of: loss of agricultural productivity;
downstream sedimentation problems (e.g., siltation of
irrigation channels and reservoirs, etc.); loss of
productive forest lands, water quality impacts, damage
to physical facilities; and
(b) estimate the impact of resource depletion on net
national product; based on trends and patterns in
resource utilization, describe and evaluate the likely
future rates and patterns of deforestation and erosion
and assess the implications for long run productivity.
6.       During the Strategy Development phase, consultants should prepare
recommendations for a comprehensive strategy for land degradation and
erosion control. Consultants should determine priority policy and
investment actions. In particular they should:
(a)  identify geographical areas o' highest priority;
(b) recommend and prioritize alternative investments
required to halt land degradation processes (e.g.,
reforestation; conservation measures for the immediate
future, etc.); with due attention to critical irrigation
needs for agriculture on the pla4ins;
(c) identify appropriate lead agency(ies) for executing
comprehensive land rehabilitation programs;



- 85 -
ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 5
(d) identify and recommend appropriate technical solutions
available for rehabilitation programs (based on
affordability, ease of construction and maintenance, and
use of local capabilities);
(e) make specific recommendations for the design and
implementation of appropriate manpower development and
training programs;
(f) recommend actions required for improving national soil
erosion monitoring and management programs;
(g) recommend priority opportunities for policy related
interventions. Among other factors, the recommendations
should focus on: financing degradation control (cost
sharing, taxation, subsidy programs, cross compliance
schemes, etc.); appropriate regulatory control (legal
limits on sediment amounts, land use zoning); commodity
pricing schemes; management and operational
responsibilities, etc.;
Ch) identify and recommend priorities for national research;
Wi) recommend mechanisms for improving promulgation of
public policy; improve communication and public
education programs; and
(j) recommend approaches to overcoming local constraints to
adoption of conservation program (local knowledge,
perceptions and willingness to undertake programs).
Inputs, Outputs and Timing
7.       Approximately 18 staffmonths of consultant services will be needed
for the study. Consultants will be required with expertise in ecology,
forestry, irrigation and watershed protection, hill farming, satellite
imagery, land tenure systems, economic geography and economics.
8.       The study should be completed in 6-9 months.  Interim reports
should be submitted to the Government and to IDA on the completion of each
of the study's first two phases.
Counterpart Inputs
9.       No Government ministry or agency has overall responsibility for all
the areas to be studied. Overall management will therefore rest with the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, with extensive participation by the
National Promotion and Public Service Commission, the Ministry of



- 86 -
ANNEX IX
Page 5 of 5
Agriculture and Rural Development and the Ministry of Public Works,
Transport, Communications, Energy and Mines. These ministries will all make
staff and information available as appropriate but the consultants will have
sole responsibility for the production of the report.



ANNEX X
Page 1 of 4
- 87 -
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPHENT COMPONENT
Objectives
1.       The Government of lHitt intendls to carry out a Restructuring and
Development Program (RDP) for the private industrial sector to improve its
efficiency, competitiveness and export potential, thus providing a sound
basis for an increased role for manufacturing industries in Haiti's
development process. The Government attaches great urgency to the
implementation of the proposed RP, particularly in light of its reform of
the trade regime which may increase compeLitive pressure through increased
imports. The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed
component has the following objectives:
(a)  to help in the transformation of a highly protected and inward
oriented industrial sector to an outward and competitive one;
(b)  to assess the level of international competitiveness and/or
potential comparative advantage position at subsector and
enterprise levels;
(c)  to provide an enterprise and subsector diagnosis which will
identify major problems and their causes, and assess the
economic viability of restructuring measures; and
(d)  to develop specific restructuring plans for enterprises judged
to be economically viable, in order to attract funding for
these enterprises.
Proposed Apiprach
2.       The Industrial Development Fund (FDI) has been given the mandate
and resources to:
(a)  promote the concept of the proposed RDP within the private
manufacturing sectors; (b) direct and support the preparatory
work for the RDP; and (c) coordinate consultants to be
retained and liaise with the enterprises concerned in the
context of preparatory efforts.
3.       A two stage approach is envisaged:
(a)  a diagnostic phase to screen private enterprises, identify
needs for corporate rentructuring and development, assess
economic subsector performance, and ascertain key constraints
preventing subsectors from operating at internationally
competitive standards; and



- 88 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 4
(b)  in in-depth1 study phlise to develop detniled corporate artion
programs for rehabi litation, modernization or expansion oF
enterprises.  These programs could lenid to prnposals for
comnhercial hank financing.
Scope of Work
4.       (a) Diagnostic Phase:  As part (f their diagnosis, conisuiltants witI
relevant subsector experience will review and evaluate, Inter :lia, the
following key areas closely linked to enterprise and subsector
performance.'/
(f)  installed capacity and capacity utitlizationi by product
LIne;
(it)  technology employed at various stages of the production
process;
(iii) availability of manpower, including skilled, technical and
management personnel and employment and wage policies;
(iv)  operating cost structure, incLtiding input prices;
Cv)  marketing and distribution arrangements and practices;
(vi)  financial structure, sources of investment and working
capital finance;
(vii) institutional and policy framework, incliuding pricing.
inlcentives, taxation, effective protection, etc.
While conducting the analysis outlined above, the consultants will train and
familiarize FDI counterparts in the methodology and analytical techniques
employed. The diagnostic phase has a dual purpose: firstly, it is a
screening process to Identify which corporations and their functional areas
deserve an in-depth review during the second phase, thus allowing a better
direction and allocation of limited human and financial resources; and
secondly it should provide a strategic assessment of the comparative
advantages of the subsectors concerned.  The consultants are expected to
prepare indicative recommendations towards the usefulness of restructuring
investments at enterprise and subsector level, and assess the impact of
industrial and trade policies on the different subsectors.
(b) In-depth Study Phase: The following tasks will he performed hy
consultants who are subsector specialists with appropriate operational
experience.2_
(i) Based 'in the findings and recnmmendations of the diagnostic
phase, the consultants will 'tertify specific restructuring
1/ Subsectors under consideration are metal-working industries,
agroindustries, chemical industries, and textile and leather Industries.
2/ Specialized functional expertise may be subcontracted as required.



- 89 -
ANNEX X
Page 3 of 4
and developmenit me:asures, cost them and assess their
ecoinomic impact. These measuires can be related to
TIhardware" (reh,ihilltation/ratlonalization of plants and
equipment) nnd/or "sofrwAre' programs (product design,
product quality, development of new products, marketing,
export strtategy, corporate strategy, training, financial
restriacturing, management of working capital, etc.). They
niay a]so involve the need for substitution of existing
produict lines, partial closures, expansion of existing
capacity, and identification of possible joint venture
partners to facilitate transfer of technology, access to
export market and cquity funding.
(it)  Preparation of restructuring and deveLopment project
proposals (packaging of restructuring measures) which would
serve as the basis for appraisal by commercial lending
Institutions. The project proposals should comprise:
definition of project scope, capital cost estimate,
financial and economic evaluation including financial and
economic rate of return calculations,3/ and a brief risk
assessment.
(iii) Preparation of a step by step action plan with an
indication of which type of implementation assistance will
he required. It should be based on a milestone schedule
for the key activities according to their respective
priorities which can also be used as a project progress
monitoring instrument.
(iv) Provision of ad hoc advice to enterprise management in terms
of technology, cost stru ture, product development, world
market, international competitiveness, and general
operatinglinvestment strategy.
Inputs, Outputs and Timing
5.       The Diagnostic Phase should be initiated as early as possible but
not later than February 1987 and would involve three or four consultants/
specialists over a period of up to three months for a total of eight
staffmonths of CLnsultant time. It is estimated that each enterprise
diagnosis will on average require three staffdays. Preliminary findings
will be discussed with the enterprise management and FDI staff as soon as
selected subsector reviews are essentially completed to minimize delays
before the next phase.
6.       The In-depth Studies will be interphased with the diagnostic phase
and will be initiated following the completion of several encerprise
diagnoses, and its related subsector review. It is desirable to arrange the
3/ The FDI staff "liaison officer" (para. 7) is expected to get actively
involved in the financial return calculations as well as economic
project evaluation.



- 90 -                     ANNEX X
Page 4 of 4
timing of in-deptil studies In such a way that several studies concerning the
soinic stibsctt,r can be effecttd SiiKiltntcosisly in order to keep travel
expenses at a minimum.  It is estimated that, on aiverage, each stucly will
require about six stnLffweeks of consultant time.  Assuming 30 enterprises
will participate in the program, the total consuLtant requtrements will be
about 45 staftmonths.  Since many studies will be conducted in parallel, the
proposed study phase is projected to last between 12 and 15 months. Each
stttdy will involve one progress review meeting and a final discussion with
the enterprise management and FD1 staff concerning the findings and
recommendations of the study report. Contractual parties wilL be the
enterprise to be studied, FDI and the consultants.  Funding to the
consultants will be provided through an IDA Technical Assistance Credit,
wlth the enterprises concerned expected to contribute 20% of the estimated
study costs.
Counterpart Inputs
7.       For both phases, counterpart responsibility will be with ?DI which
has built up its human resources for this purpose.  Budgetary support for
FDI's role in the RP will also be part of the IDA Technical Assistance
Credit. Besides overall coordination and close liaison between consultants
and enterprises, FDI will provide staff for support functions during the two
stages of RP preparation:
(a) one  liaison officer" to follow through the entire Technical
Assistance program for a group of enterprises organized by
subsector;
(b) one staff member for each team during the diagnostic phase;
(c) the "liaison oflicer", with support from a senior FDI officer
as necessary, will provide guidance for the in-depth studies
and monitrr study progress;
(d) limited lot 5tical support, office space and secretarial/
clerical support on a case by case basis.



uSA
CUBtA
DOMINICAN
141'JFLI(                                                       Mlel S" cola
IIA~III   1NclIt"
JAMAICA                                     Pul RIO                                                                  (.
lomb.iwdIb '        \ 
HAITI
Moin Highways
Secondory Roods
T ertary Roads
Rivers
-.  -    Internotional Boundaries
Elevation in Meters
1600
800
2 200
Q~~~~~~~1
I        10      20       30       40       50
KILOMETERS
MILES *                                           30i
0             1a0           2 0            lo1= 
Domem Mrn in
12;7.c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                  - -t -R u  - -   neaGVa
Rrx he e SaNXDX Les Cayes
3      <St Joe
nn  W. hM r~ Pp,W br . iVMg*S f  r-C.    Ml W                    Port        -0  du Su
the -maw.. rm.d a ..cAs ~,,,I. aVSa~ 4~*,fA, rr wI   f4    d   rSolut              .VACHE !
e Fne C@nwva. a -. r            ,f d as  d - erpm bam ao EL .* e mrp do ,
4,4 ah padr 1f T4A.u mm  mad IrT 11S h _.W F     Compmh. r,d0.
M. hgw  s a1    , d ,Aorr 4  ur 5,gnflV w coh4 ut of S.Ch towxbd
74-



IBRO 17094R
Port de Poix
, - 6<t.)91 ~~Anse b Folour
,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 1 (   Ct -i
\e  r\;l  t S    t   wt i -jln  St 56on _
t~~  '  \ 5,*- ' % X VicEoi~~~~~~~'r    <;U
i,       >~onrie                                                           6va:ll  
*hi~~~~~~~~~Pn " cc
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ps I
St Malc                                           .41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
L~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~OTBR18



