CREDIT NUMBER 1786 HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1786 RA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       VLC)                  , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI (the BorroweV) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "FDI" means Fonds de Developpement Industriel, an indus-
trial development fund created and operating under the Decree of
the Borrower of March 20, 1981 published in Le Moniteur No. 25
dated March 26, 1981;
(b)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)  "Project Preparation Advances" means: (i) the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 27, 1985 and
September 15, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(ii) the project preparation advance granted by the Association to
the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 31,
1986 and November 13, 1986 between the Borrower and the
Association;


﻿-2-
(d) "Central Bank" means the Borrower's Banque de la
Republique d'Haiti;
(e) "Technical Assistance Contract" means a contract to be
entered into between the Central Bank, acting through FDI, and a
Private Enterprise whereby: (a) the Private Enterprise agrees to
the analysis and preparation of restructuring and development
plans referred to in Part D (2) of the Project in respect of such
Private Enterprise; (b) 80% of the cost of such plans will be
financed by FDI out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated for
that purpose and transferred to FDI pursuant to Section 3.03 (a)
of this Agreement; and (c) the Private Enterprise undertakes to
pay to FDI the remaining 20% of the cost of such restructuring
plans; and
(f) "Private Enterprise" means a private industrial
enterpri se to which the Central Bank, acting through FDI, has
agreed to provide the technical assistance referred to in Part D
(2) of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 2,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank satisfactory to the Association on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account


﻿-3-
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1989
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agveement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1997, and ending April 15,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 15, 2007 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end, shall: (i) carry out Parts A through
C of the Project through its Ministry of Economy and Finance; and
(ii) cause the Central Bank, acting through FDI, to carry out
Part D of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall appoint and thereafter
maintain until the Closing Date, a project manager with terms of
reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association for purposes of supervising the carrying out of Parts
A through C of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement
with the Central Bank for purposes of Part D of the Project
providing, inter alia, for:
(i) the Central Bank's obligation to carry out Part D
of the Project through FDI;
(ii) the Borrower's obligation to transfer the proceeds
of the Credit allocated for Part D of the Project
to FDI on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association; and
(iii) the auditing, reporting, procurement and other
applicable obligations set forth or referred to in
this Agreement in respect of such part of the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into a contractual arrangement,
satisfactory to the Association, with an agent, satisfactory to


﻿-5-
the Association, for handling contracting of consultants under
Parts A through C of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
agreement and the contractual arrangement referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, and in the Technical
Assistance Coperacts in such a manner so as to protect the
interests of th  Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive such agreement, arrangement or contracts or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out all studies
included in the Project in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part D.2 of
the Project, cause the Central Bank, through FDI:
(a) to establish, and thereafter maintain, in FDI a technical
assistance account to be operated under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) before commencing the analysis and restructuring plans
referred to in such part of the Project in respect of any Private
Enterprise, to enter into, with such Private Enterprise, a
Technical Assistance Contract satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A through C of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out such parts of the Project; and (ii) cause the
Central Bank, acting through FDI, to maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
Part D of the Project.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)  (A) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, and (B) cause the Central Bank to have
FDI's records and accounts referred to in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section audited; all in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish, and cause the Central Bank, acting through
FDI, to furnish, to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish, and cause the Central Bank, acting through
FDI, to furnish, to the Association such other
information concerning said records, accounts and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
year after the completion of the audit for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit


﻿-7-
contain a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the Central Bank shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the agreement referred to in Section 3.03
(a) of this Agreement.
(b) The decree referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 1.02
of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Central Bank, acting through FDI, to perform any of
its obligations under the agreement referred to in Section 3.03
(a) of this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Central Bank or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement withip the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:


﻿-8-
(a) that the project manager refer7ed to in paragraph (b)
of Section 3.01 of this Agreement has been appointed in accordance
with the provisions of such Section; and
(b) that the Borrower has employed, under terms of
reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Association, an advisor to assist the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance in the selection of the consultants required for the
carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 6.02. The date   q4    / ?i L7 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.A  of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist?re de 1'Economie
et des Finances
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Telex:
30490347
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                       Telex:*,
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By//74             S
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/s    t4  2trA(A
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Goods for Part                76,000        100%
A (2) of the
Project
(2) Consultants'
Services
(a) for Part A
of the Project          356,000        100%
(b) for Part B              143,000        100%
of the Project
(c) for Part C               65,000        100%
of the Project
(3) Consultants'                 430,000        80%
services for
Part D (2) of
the Project
(4) Other con-                   297,000        100%
sultants'
services for
Part D of the
Project


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Operating                     63,000        37% of local
Costs of                                   expenditures
FDI in 1987
(6) Refunding of                 970,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advances                              2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL                  2,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "local
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 198,000 may be made in respect of
Category (2) (a) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after April 1, 1987;
(b) expenditures under Parts A through C of the Project
unless the Borrower shall have entered into the contractual
arrangement referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) expenditures under Part D of the Project, unless the
Borrower shall have entered into the agreement referred to in
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; and
(d) expenditures under Category (3) unless: (i) the Central
Bank, acting through FDI, shall have established a technical
assistance account in FDI pursuant to the provi.ions of Section
3.05 of this Agreement; and (ii) the Association shall have
approved the terms and conditions of a sample Technical Assistance
Contract.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen the 2jr-
rower's capacity to carry out its program of economic recovery;
(b) develop information about, and assist in the development of, a
strategy to deal with the deteriorating natural environment in the
Borrower's territory; and (c) assist: (i) private industrial
enterprises affected by changes in the Borrower's trade regime to
raise their productivity and to become more competitive; and (ii)
private enterprises to develop export activities and to improve
their performance in the market.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of the Borrower's Public Sector
(1) Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower's Ministry of
Economy and Finance and its National Promotion and Public Service
Commission in: (a) macro-economic analysis and; (b) analysis,
programming, control and monitoring of public investments and
expenditures.
(2) Acquisition, expansion and utilization of computer capacity
of the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance and its National
Promotion and Public Service Commission and the hardware and
software required by such computer capacity.
(3) Review of the Borrower's public sector salary and incentive
policies and preparation of a plan of action to reorganize and
make more effective its civil service.
(4) Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower's Ministry of
Economy and Finance in: (a) financial monitoring of public
enterprises; (b) subjects related to the restructuring of the
Borrower's Ciment d'Haiti; and (c) the implementation of a trade
drawback scheme to complement the Borrower's trade regime.
(5) Review and implementation of a scheme to raise rentals on
state lands and review of alternatives to sugarcane production in
the Plaine du Nord region.


﻿- 13 -
Part B:   Environmental Protection
Carrying out of a study designed to assess the extent of land
degradation in the Borrower's territory and recommend interven-
tions to arrest and reverse such degradation, using an approach
which integrates environmental and natural resource management
directly into economic and social policy.
Part C:   Other Studies and Technical Assistance
(1) Carrying out of studies of: (a) the financial sector; (b) the
scope for cotton and textile development; and (c) the improvement
of the Borrower's economic and social statistics and its national
accounts, the number and scope of which will be determined by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(2) Carrying out of such other studies and training and provision
of such other technical assistance as shall be required to achieve
the objectives of the Project; and with scope and terms as shall
be determined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
Part D:   Restructuring and Developing of Private Industry
(1) Carrying out of a diagnosis designed to assess the strengths
and weaknesses of selected private enterprises and to indicate
functional areas where an in-depth study is warranted.
(2) Based on the diagnosis carried out under Part D (1) above,
carrying out of an analysis of identified problems, and
preparation of a restructuring and development plan as required,
for each such enterprise.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1988.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Shopping
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded through
international shopping procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract or group of contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
2.   The figure of i5% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consult,ints
1.   In order to assist the Brrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the Borrower shall not later than October 31, 1987 employ
the consultants required to assist the Central Bank, acting
through FDI, in the carrying out of Part D (2) of the Project.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) of the Categories set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 396,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Cate-
gories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
*h1


﻿- 17 -
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund


﻿- 18 -
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


