Dotwmut of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot Nm. P-4241 -KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$230 MILLION
TO THE
KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION
FOR A
SECOND POWER PROJECT
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
February 20, 1986
This doemat 1a a reted ilslbulm m1 d my be  d bal redpiemts ody in th pelfnme of
tfgr 1 dll dud Its CEatsb nyt .iheiwlwe be dbelsed witbou Wedd Bmk amlhmbm.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Won (W)
US$1          =   W 860
W 1000        =   US$1.16
W 1 million   =   US$1,160
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                             =  3.28 feet (ft) = 100 centimeters (cm)
1 kilometer (km)                        =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                         =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (metric) (t = 1,000 kg)           =  1.100 short toni (sh. tons)
1 kilowatt (kW)                         -  1,000 Watts 910  W)
1 Megawatt (MW)                         =  1,000 kW (10  kW)
1 Gigawatt (GW)                         =  1,000 MW (106 kW)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)                   =  1,000 Watt hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)                   =  1,000 Megawatt-hours (106 kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS
EHV        Extra High Voltage
EPB        Economic Planning Board
EPGCC      Electric Power Group Coordination Council
GOK        Government of Korea
ISWACO     Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation
KEPCO      Korea Electric Power Corporation
KOPEC      Korea Power Engineering Company, Limited
LNG        Liquified Natural Gas
LRMC       Long-Run Marginal Cost
MER        Ministry of Energy
MOF        Ministry of Finance
T/D        Transmission and Distribution



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SECOND POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO)
Guarantor:               Government of Korea (GOK)
Loan Amount:             $230 million
Terms:                   15 years, including 3 years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description:     The main objective of the project is to support
KEPCO's program of constructing additionaL trans-
mission and distribution facilities to match its
generation expansion program and meet the demand
growth. It will also assist KEPCO in implementation
of end-use survey and load management programs,
improvement of planning techniques to achieve greater
economic efficiency of resource utilization and with
rationalization of tariffs. The project consists
of: (a) the transmission and distribution (T/D)
component of KEPCO's 1986-1989 investment program;
(b) technical assistance and engineering services;
and (c) a program for strengthening KEPCOOs Research
Center.
Risks:                   The only risk of any significance is that of delay
due to slow completion of the project on account of
limitations on KEPCO's financial resources, but this
risk is considered minimal.
-Th documt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their ocil duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizdto.



Cost Estimates:
I        I
Local       Foreign        Total
---        US$ million
Transmission lines                   513.4        198.7          712.1
Substations                          252.9        257.9          510.8
Distribution                         992.8        360.1          1,352.9
Research                             2.0          5.0            7.0
Engineering                          0.9          0.1            1.0
Technical assitance                  0.9          0.1            1.0
Total Base Cost                    1,762.9      821.9          2,584.8
Physical contingencies               72.1         43.0           115.1
Price contingencies                  205.4        162.7          368.1
Total Project Cost /a              2,040.4      1,027.6        3,068.0
Interest during construction /b      -            2.6            2.6
Total Financing Required           2,040.4      1,030.2        3,070.6
/a   Inclusive of taxes and import duties estimated at $388.6 million.
7b   Capitalized interest during construction, applicable only to project
components where the construction period exceeds one year.
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign        Total
--         US$ million
IBRD                                                230.0        230.0
Internal cash generation            1,462.0            -       1,462.0
Other borrowing                        578.4        800.2      1,378.6
Total                          2,040.4       1,030.2      3,070.6
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY           1986         1987       1988      1989       1990
-------- U.S. $ million -
Annual              1.5       43.5       45.0      70.0        70.0
Cumulative          1.5       45.0       90.0     160.0       230.0
Rate of Return:           15Z
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5893-KO, dated February 12, 1986
Map: No. 19075R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION
FOR A SECOND POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Korea Electric Pover Corporation (KEPCO), for the equivalent of $230.0
million for the Second Power Project. The loan would be guaranteed by the
Republic of Korea. It would have a term of 15 years, including three years of
grace, and would bear interest at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea's Development in a Global
Context" was distributed under cover of Sec M84-570 dated June 21, 1984. The
following sumnary is based on this Report. The Country Data Sheets are
attached as Annex 1.
3.        Past Performance.  Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest
developing countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of
payments position financed almost entirely from foreign grants. But the
ability to sustain a growth rate of 8Z p.a. from 1960 onwards raised Korea's
per capita income from $180 in 1960 to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current
prices), with more than 80X of the population above the poverty line, and
enaoled her to join the ranks of the semi-industrial nations. During this
period, the share of the manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 141 to 29%
while the share of agriculture fell from 39% to 17%. Merchandise exports,
principally manufactured goods, accounted for almost 41% of GNP as against a
mere 4% two decades earlier, and the balance of payments position had been
considerably strengthened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties, well over half the labor force
had been employed in agriculture. By 1982, employment in this sector had
fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 22% of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rural areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Government policies to improve the agricultural terms of trade and a steady
increase in agricultural value added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the ecnomy through the
1970s.
5.        Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-84.  Foreign
borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and export diversification
resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled the country to negotiate
the first oil crisis without faltering, and thereafter, to grow by 10% p.a.
until 1978. However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
the economy generated serious inflationary pressures. Real wages rose at an



average annual rate of 182 between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in
productivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price Index was increasing at over 18%
p.a., compared to a rate of 10% in 1977. In addition, the large volume of
subsidized credit which was made available to the heavy and chemical
industries by the financial system under the Government's direction, brought
about an excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand,
while the traditional light industries were frequently starved of funds. This
trend was in line with the Government's view of Korea's changing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector,
and, in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level,
dampened export growth in the latter part of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price
adjustment by OPEC raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about $2.3
billion in 1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal
to nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the
chief architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was
assassinated. This was followed by a period of the severest political
uncertainty and social unrest in twenty years, with the situation returning to
normal only after a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan was
installed in September 1980. On top of these developments, unfavorable
weather reduced agricultural output by about 22% in 1980, or over 4% of GNP,
and a 20% decline in investment led to a worsening of deflationary pressures
that outweighed the 10% growth of export volume. As a result, GNP fell by 6.2%
in 1980, unemployment increased to 5.2% from 3.2% in 1978, and the higher
costs of fuel, raw materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29%.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment, the
Government attempted, with some success, to restrain wages. It also adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequence of which the effective exchange rate
was cut by 30% in 1980. Improved competitiveness and weak domestic demand
allowed export volumes to increase by 10%,in 1980 and a further 17% in 1981.
This sizeable expansion in trade brought about a narrowing of the current
account deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (8.7% of GNP) to $4.6 billion (6.9%
of GNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.3Z cut in real wages following on the heels of
a 5% drop in the previous year, together with some levelling off of import
prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures. These favorable
developments continued through 1982, a year which saw inflation declining to
7.3% and the payments deficit to 3.7% of GNP, largely because of movements in
the terms of trade favoring Korea, modest success on the wages front and
rather more conservative fiscaL and monetary policies.
8.        1983 and 1984 saw a continuation of the improving trend brought
about by the stabilization and adjustment program begun in 1979/80. Helped by
the recovery of export demand in the electronics, machinery and transport
sectors, the current account deficit shrank further to $1.6 billion in 1983
and $1.4 billion in 1984. With money supply growth restrained to a conser-
vative 12Z-15% and with wages running behind productivity, inflation continued
to slide, being 3.4% in 1983 and 2.8% in 1984. Real GNP surged by 9.5% in
1983 and 7.6% in 1984.  In short, Korea not only jumped back on to a high



-3-
growth trajectory but managed to do so while keeping its current account
deficit low and its prices stabLe. Despite the favorable economic picture,
there remain areas of concern. In particular, many large Korean conglomr
erates, previously accustomed to a plentiful supply of cheap credit, are
finding it difficult to adjust to the higher real interest rates and lower
levels of credit availability of recent years. Efforts are being made to wean
such firms from their heavy reliance on debt instru.arts and to help them
raise cash from internal sources, from the sale of unorofitable lines of
business and speculative assets and from the issuance of equity.
9.        Medium-Term Prospects.  As was the case during the 1970s, Korea's
rate of growth during the 1980s will be determined largely by the performance
of exports on the one hand and savings on the other. The revised version of
the Fifth Plan aims for a growth rate target of 7.5% which is to be achieved
via an export growth rate of 10Z and a national savings rate of 292. All this
is to be accomplished in an environment of stable prices and equilibrium in
the balance of payments. The proposed targets are ambitious and the self-
imposed constraints are tight. Hence, careful macroeconomic management will
be required over the next few years.
10.       Exports performance was robust during 1983 and the first half of
1984 but has slackened since. A major cause would appear to be the
performance of the U.S. economy. As the latter expanded for roughly 18 months
after August 1982 so did Korean exports. As growth in the U.S. tapered off
from the summer of 1984 so have Korean exports. Commodity exports grew at a
rapid 15Z. in 1983 but slowed down to a more modest 10X in 1984. They are
expected to grow at 9% in 1985. Korea is also being affected currently by a
worldwide slump in the construction and shipbuilding industries. Over the
longer run, Korea aims to reduce export volatility by diversifying its export
markets and its export base. Investments are being made in domestic R&D and
in skill-upgrading to achieve such diversification. This should also soften
the impact of the selective protectionism being faced increasingly by Korean
exports.
11,.      National savings are being promoted partly through a process of
financial liberalization and inflation control which raised real rates of
interest for depositors from 5% to 8X in 1983-84, partly through budget
surpluses arising from restrained government expenditure and partly through
measures to increase efficiency in public sector activities. The savings rate
stood at 26.5Z in 1984, up from a recent low of 21.9Z in 1980. However, a
savings rate of 29Z and a level of fixed investment of about 31X will be
needed if growth is to be maintained at 7.5Z p.a. without pressure on the
balance of payments. On the basis of past aggregate savings performance, it
is likely that the Koreans will attain their savings target. However, the
process may be more difficult in the future than it has been in the past since
there has been a marked upward shift in the dpmand for consumer durables in
recent years.
12.       External Resource Balance.  While total debt is high ($43.1 billion
in 1984, 54% of GNP), the debt service ratio, including interest on short-term
debt, remains a manageable 20%. The share of short-term maturities in total
debt is high and, although improving (from 302 in 1983 to 26Z in 1984),



remains a cause for concern. This aspect of its debt and the continuing
uncertainty in international financial markets, which has led to high and
volatile interest rates, has persuaded the Koreans to hold their new foreign
borrowing at about $6 billion per annum through 1986 and to seek balance of
payments curent account equilibrium by then. This implies a level of net
external borrowing of $2.5-3 billion per year through 1986. Our assessment is
that this level of borrowing is reasonable, and that while a significant
proportion of official assistance should be continued, Korea is likely to move
increasingly toward reliance on private flows to meet external capital
requirements. This assessment was endorsed by the Consultative Group for
Korea which met on July 16, 1984 in Seoul. At that meeting, the Consultative
Group, recognizing the rapidly evolving character of Korea's economy and the
trends in external assistance, concluded that its role as a forum for aid
coordination and enhanced mobilization of external capital is now being
fulfilled by Government. Accordingly, it was agreed that the Group should be
formally dissolved. Nevertheless, the Government explicitly indicated its
need and its intention to continue with a substartial program of borrowing
from the Bank and its wish to continue with an active economic dialogue that
would provide a vehicle for continued advice on matters of economic policy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       As of September 30, 1985, Korea had received 82 Bank loans (includ-
ing one Third Window Loan) and eight IDA Credits, totalling $5,808.03 million
in loans and $115.58 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and
the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that
date, $1,394.30 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding
bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of September 30, 1985.
Progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory. Although
implementation delays - mainly in irrigation, highways and population projects
- have occurred, due primarily to shortfalls in Government budgetary contri-
butions resulting from cost overruns during a period of high domestic
inflation, they have been addressed and resolved. The Government has taken
meas'zres to increase local funding of Bank-financed projects. However, as the
Government's budgetary situation continues to be tight, the status and plans
for counterpart contributions will remain an integral part of country imple-
mentation reviews held jointly with the Government. Nevertheless, despite the
recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains the highest among major Bank
borrowers in East Asia.
14.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete pro-
jects concerned with micro-institutional issues to making loans which are
increasingly aimed at addressing more broadly based policy and institutional
issues. This gradual change in the Bank's lending approach, made possible by
relatively sophisticated Korean institutions, is proceeding well. Sector
loans have already been made for highways, education and industrial finance.
The Bank has also made two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), which comple-
ment this approach by concentrating on iesues that have a multi-sectoral
impact.



-5-
15.       In 1984, the Bank undertook an Agricultural Sector Survey in Korea,
which recomsended that Government should stimulate non-farm employment in
rural areas, reduce its overall intervention in the sector and adopt a broader
and longer-term view of agricultural problems. The credit project, which was
approved on May 21, 1985, will promote agricultural development through
financing private sector investments covering a wide range of agricultural
production and rural income diversification activities. It also addresses the
institutional development issues of the National Agricultural Cooperative
Federation, the main credit institution serving agriculture.
16.   '  Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at developing the technological capabilities of
Korean enterprises. So far, trade and incentives issues have been addressed
through the two SALs, referred to earlier. Issues pertaining to the
strengthening of the financial system are being addressed under the Bank's
lending for industrial finance. For ezample, the Industrial Finance project
approved by the Board in June 1983 supports the Government's ongoing program
of financial sector reform. The technology enhancement objectives of the
Government are being pursued with Bank support through two projects approved
in 1982, one for the Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC) which
finances research, development and engineering, and the other for the
machinery industries which is designed to provide financial and technical
assistance to raise the productivity of small and medium machinery firms.
Bank lending to Korea in FY1985 included additional support for financial
sector reform through the Second Industrial Finance Project, for KTDC, and for
small and medium enterprises. Future Bank lending would continue to emphasize
financial reform and technology enhancement.
17.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. The Highway Sector
loan approved in Marcb 1984, as well as future operations, would address
sectoral and subsectoral issues such as improving the integration of invest-
ment planning, energy conservation and transport efficiency related to regu-
lation and road user charges. Those transport issues which involve macro-
economic policies affecting other sectors of the economy, such as relative
fuel prices, were handled within the context of the second SAL. In July 1985,
the Bank approved the Seoul-Busan Corridor Project, which would help increase
transport efficiency and the capacity of rail services on an important line.
A third project to augment container capacity at Busan port is under
preparation.
18.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of upmarket industrial diversi-
fication. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, was
aimed at improving engineering and management education and technician train-
ing. A second sector loan, approved in May 1984, would support measures
designed to improve qualitative aspects of secondary and higher level science
and technology eduction.



19.       The Bank's recent Lending in the urban sector involves support for
three regional development projects, two low-income housing projects and three
water supply projects. The Bank is assisting Korea to increase the availabil-
ity of basic services such as housing, water supply and transportation in the
cities and to improve the functioning and efficiency of urban areas. A Seoul
Urban Transport Project was approved in April 1985, and new projects in local
government finance are under preparation.
20.       Since 1980, the Bank has provided some policy advice and support for
the Government's efforts at improving energy supply and conservation
policies.  Following the completion of an Energy Sector Survey in January,
1985 (para. 38) the Bank is now better placed to provide support for the
Government's energy development program. The rationale and need for the
proposed project as well as the basis for potential investment in gas
transmission and distribution emerged during those sector discussions.
III. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SECTOR
Overview
21.       Korea's indigenous commercial energy resources are extremely
limited, consisting of hydroelectric power (2,000 MW) and coal (635 million
tons). Nevertheless, Korea's buoyant, expanding economy is highly energy-
intensive - the second highest among major countries of Asia. Oil accounts
for over 56% of total energy consumption, followed by coal at 33Z. Korea
imports all its oil requirements and about 35% of its coal consumption. The
use of firewood - the main non-commercial fuel - which was as high as 45% of
total energy consumption in 1965 has now been reduced to about 5%. Nuclear
(4.5%) and hydroelectric sources (1.5%) account for the balance. Indigenous
energy resources have been developed to optimal levels and all future growth
is dependent on the import of fuels.
Energy Consumption
22.       During the last two decades, energy consumption in Korea grew at an
average annual rate of 8Z, from 11 million tons of oil equivalent (MTOE) in
1965 to about 42 MTOE in 1983. The Korean aconomy now is zelatively energy
intensive compared to other countries at a similar level of income. The
principal reasons are the high share of manufacturing in the Korean economy,
the rapid growth of energy-intensive industries during the 1970s; and the
relatively cold climate, resulting in substantial space heating requirements.
23.       The industrial sector's share of total Lonsumption was about 30% in
1970, increased to 43% by 1980, and is expected to remain stable around this
level until the end of the century. Energy consumption in the transportation
sector was less than 10% in the early 1970s, increased to 15% in 1983, and is
projected to reach 22% by the end of the century. The share of residential
and commercial energy consumption declined from 50% in the early 1970s to 36%
in 1983 ir response to the rapid growth of energy prices.  Further improve-
ments in efficiency are expected to reduce it to 24% by the end of the
century.



7-
Energy Sector Strategy
24.       During the period 1965-80 imports of petroleum fuels increased by a
factor of 15 making the Korean economy highly vulnerable to price fluctuations
in the international oil market. After the oil price increases of the 1970OS
the economy ezperienced severe recessions and large balance-of-payment
deficits and Korea had to borrow heavily abroad to meet increased oil import
bills. The Government of Korea (GOK) then adopted a strategy of: (a)
reducing the dependenc. on petroleum by diversifying into alternative energy
sources such as nuclear, coal and natural gas; (b) choosing a wider spectrum
of energy suppliers for oil and other energy imports and participating in
overseas petroleum exploration and development ventures; and (c) readjusting
the industrial structure of the economy and fostering energy conservation to
reduce the rate of growth of energy demand.
25.       Korea pursued these policy changes with great vigor and speed,
achieving impressive results. On the supply side, heavy investments were made
in nuclear energy; this resulted in the creation of nuclear generating
capacity of 2,900 MV, which will increase to 7,600 MW by 1989. Korea partici-
pated in several offshore petroleum exploration ventures through private com-
panies in overseas locations a's well as offshore Korea in collaboration with
Japan.  It entered into long-term agreements with various suppliers of oil and
gas, including a contract with Indonesia to import two million tons of liqui-
fied natural gas (LNC) per annum for 20 years, starting in late-1986.  On the
demand side, the energy-CDP elasticity was reduced from 1.1 in mid-1970s to
about 0.9 in 1983-84 by increasing the efficiency of technological processes
involved in the transformation, transmission and consumption of energy and
slowing down the relative growth of energy intensive industries as compared
with light manufacturing. As a result, the technical efficiency of energy use
in Korea is high by international standards.
26.       Recent reviews by the COK and the Bank have indicated that there are
still considerable opportunities to improve the institutional and economic
efficieucy of the energy sector. Unlike the manufacturing and commercial
sectors of the economy, which have been increasingly exposed to market forces,
the energy sector in Korea is still subject to Government intervention through
public production, regulation, price control, taxation and subsidization.
These interventions have led to considerable market imperfections and
institutional inefficiencies. Realizing the critical role that market forces
can play in improving the efficiency of resource allocation in the energy
sector, the Government has recently shifted its emphasis from diversification
of energy sources to improving the economic and institutional efficiency of
the sector. The major objectives of the energy strategy being articulated as
part of the Sixth Fi-ze-Year Plan to be implemented during 1987-91, are to:
(a) improve the insti:utional efficiency of the energy sector through the
implementation of the public enterprise reforms introduced in 1984;
(b) gradually deregulate petroleum product prices and trade; (c) manage the
energy demand by using more efficient pricing policies and load management
techniques; (d) monitor investment planning in the energy sector to ensure
that capital expenditures are based on a least-cost development approach; and
(e) promote cogeneration projects in the industrial, commercial and large
residential sectors.



-8-
The Power Market
27.       Electricity supply in Korea commenced as early as 1898, but it was
not until the early sixties that any significant expansion took place. Total
sales of electricity and per capita electricity consumption, which were 1,213
CWh and 45 kWh, respectively, in 1961, increased to 47,051 CWh and 1,160 kWh
in 1984. The average annual growth rate of electricity consumption during
this period was 19X, among the highest in the world. Per capita electricity
consumption in Korea is presently higher than all other major countries of
Asia except Japan and Taiwan.
28.       The industrial sector has been the major electricity consumer
accounting for 64% of total electricity sales ;u 1984. Residential (19X) and
comercial (17Z) consumption represented the balance. Future growth in
industrial energy consumption is projected at m ch lower rates than in the
past because increased energy costs have made it uneconomic to rely on energy-
intensive industries. Residential and commerciAl electricity demands are
expected to continue their rapid growth. By Lae year 2000, per capita
residential and commercial electricity consumption levels are expected to be
comparable with those of Japan in 1980.
Ceneration and Transmission Facilities
29.       The Korean power sector is dominated by a single public utility, the
Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO), whose installed capacity is about
16,000 MW. Over the last two decades, generation became increasingly oil-
based and its share of capacity grew from 16X in 1961 to 72Z in 1980. Since
then, a shift in emphasis from oil to nuclear sources has brought about a sub-
stantial change. Presently, oil-based generation accounts for 41Z followed by
coal 23%, nuclear 18Z and hydro 14Z. By 1996, nuclear power will account for
44%, with coal and oil accounting for 36% and 11% respectively.
30.       In the early 1960s, a few 154 kV transmission lines connected major
power plants to the main load centers while 66 kV and 22 kV transmission lines
were extended radially from the 154 kV substations to small-sized load
centers. Distribution voltages were at 3.3 kV, 5.7 kV and 6.6 kV for medium
and 100 V for low voltages. The transmission and distribution (T/D) systems
have since undergone a major transformation. The main changes were: (a) by
the mid-1970s an interconnected 154 kV system was developed; (b) during the
second half of the 1970s, a new extra high voltage (EHV) grid of 345 kV was
overlaid so that inte.rarea power transfers are now made over an integrated
345 kV and 154 kV power grid; and (c) in the early 1970s, a new medium
distribution level of 22.9 kV was adopted replacing the 3.315.7/6.6 kV
systems, while the low voltage level was raised from 100 V to 200 V. These
changes are largely responsible for the high reliability of supply and
prevailing low loss levels (7%) that characterize the system.



-9-
Power Sector Institutions
31.       In addition to KEPCO, there are two other small entities involved in
electricity generation: (a) Kyongin Energy Company, a privately-owned company
with an installed capacity of 325 NW; and (b) Industrial Site and Water
Resources Development Corporation (ISWACO), a government agency which at
present has an installed hydroelectric generating capacity of 380 MW. Their
power output is sold to KEPCO.
32.       Several government agencies participate in the power sector.  The
Ministry of Energy and Resources (MER) has the legal authority to supervise
the power industry but it shares with the Economic Planning Board (EPB) and
the Ministry of Finance the responsibility for defining investment
priorities. The Ministry of Construction has jurisdiction over the survey,
exploration, development and use of water resources and supervises the
construction of multi-purpose hydro projects through ISWACO. Finally, the
Ministry of Science and Technology is responsible for the licensing,
regulation and supervision of the nuclear industry, although KEPCO retains the
responsibility for the design, procurement, construction, and operation of
nuclear power plants. To coordinate development strategies in the power
sector, the Government established an Electric Power Group Coordination
Council (EPGCC) in July 1984.
KEPCO's Development Program
33.       KEPCO's generation expansion program for 1985-96 will raise KEPCO's
installed capacity in 1996 to about 27,000 MW and is the least cost sequence
of power development to meet the forecast of load growth finalized during
1985. Earlier programs prepared by KEPCO in 1984 were based on somewhat
higher demand assessments and had aimed at a target installed capacity of
35,000 MS by 1996. The substantial reductions in planned additions to gen-
erating capacity, as well as the altered composition - with a greater reliance
on coal-fired, rather than nuclear, generating capacity - have reduced KEPCO's
investment requirements to manageable levels, and improved the overall economy
of operation.
34.       KEPCO's T/D expansion program has been designed to match the gener-
ation expansion program outlined earlier and to sustain optimally the rated
voltage while reducing the frequency of failures. It comprises construction
of 6,500 ckm of 345 kV and 154 kV lines and complimentary substation facili-
ties and distribution systems.
Bank Sector Role and Strategy
35.       Bank lending to the power sector has so far been limited to one
project - a thermal power generation project at Gojeong in 1979 (Loan 1788-RO
for $115 million). The project was completed in 1984 with a delay of six
months. Both 500 MW units at this power station are working satisfactorily
and the operation was a success. The project was completed at a cost about
16% lower than the appraisal estimate of $657.4 million. In addition to Loan
1788-KD, the Bank has assiste1 the power sector indirectly through power de-
velopment components of the Kyonju Tourism Project (Loan 953-KO, $125 million,



- 10 -
in 1973), rural infrastructure projects (Loans 1216-CO and 1218-KO, $60 mil-
lion, in 1976), and the Chungju multi-purpose project (Loan 1666-KO, $125 mil-
lion, in 1979).
36.       Since its inception in 1961, KEPCO's basic objective has been to
fully meet the growing demand for electric power. KEPCO has performed this
function extremely well. Over the past 20 years, power generation has
increased about 20-fold providing electricity to almost 100Z of households and
catering fully to the needs of the country's buoyant industrial sector. -
KEPCO's standards of operational efficiency have steadily improved. Thermal
efficiency of KEPCO's power plants has increased from 25% in the 1960. to 37%
in 1984, while TID tosses have decreased from 28% to about 7.0% during the
same period.
37.       Despite the outstanding level of technical competence attained by
KEPCO, significant cost savings can still be effected through improved econo-
mic management of the sector involving flexible planning and pricing policies,
and advanced load research and load management programs. From these improve-
ments would evolve an optimal level of fuel, generation and distribution
mix. The Bank's policy dialogue has, therefore, focussed essentially on
improving the economic management of the power sector. The first structural
adjustment loan (2071-KO) set an objective of lowering the elasticity of
energy consumption from 1.1 prevailing in 1974-80 to 0.9 during the 1980s.
The GOK is currently working towards lowering it further to 0.8. SAL II
(2354-KO) contained a provision for undertaking a review of the tariff struc-
ture; this study was completed in March, 1984.
38.       The Bank carried out a comprehensive energy sector review during
1984-85, in order to assist GOK in optimizing resource allocation and
attenuating the possibility of over-investing in the energy sector. As
regards the power sector, this review, inter alia, recommended: (i) a downward
adjustment in load forecasts to take account of past over-estimation of
industrial sector demand and improvement of the forecasting methodology; (ii)
introduction of load management techniques including interruptible tariffs and
load shedding to shift the costly summer peak to off-peak hours; and (iii)
improvement in the efficiency of energy use by using waste heat for space
heating in the urban load centers. As a consequence of the analysis, the
review also recommended making qualititative changes in the investment pro-
gram, including postponing the commissioning of nuclear units no. 11 and 12,
reconsidering the feasibility of nuclear units larger than 900 MS, reducing
the emphasis on nuclear energy (limiting the program to two 900 MW units every
three years), establishing a larger number of coal-fired plants and extending
the life of existing power plants from 25 to 30 years.
39.       Most of the above recommendations relating to adjustments in the
demand forecasts and consequent modifications in the investment program have
been accepted and implemented by the Government. Before translating the
others into specific actions, there is a need for KEPCO and 0OK to undertake
extensive work on the design of the load management program as well as assess
the feasibility of district heating and other forms of co-generation. The
timing is therefore appropriate to intensify and enrich the Bank's dialogue



- 11 -
through a loan operation in the power sector. Some critical aspects, which
impinge upon the sector's investment program and which will be reviewed under
the project, are considered below.
40.       Due to the recent structural changes in the Korean economy, statis-
tical correlations of historical electricity consumption do not fully reflect
the future demand pattern for electricity, and thus KEPCO's present method-
ology of forecasting demand using econometric models does not lead to reliable
projections of demand. In order to arrive at more accurate projections of
demand and energy supply, KEPCO's Research Center will carry out on a regular
basis an end-use energy study to assess the demand in each sector of the
economy and combine the results of the study with those of econometric models.
41.       Presently, KEPCO's demand forecast, as well as its development
program, are approved by Government after periodic reviews and studies by
special ad-hoc task forces. These task forces do not work in continuity and
the reviews/approval process by the Government is not mandated at any speci-
fied time. To improve the efficiency of the review process GOK and KEPCO
would need to formalize the review and approval mechanism. GOK and KEPCO have
agreed to establish by December 31, 1986 a permanent demand forecasting
committee, corprising members from MOF, EPB, KEPCO, Korea Advanced Institute
for Science and Technology and Korea Institute for Energy and Resources, to
review and approve KEPCO's demand forecasts and to publish the approved
forecasts on an annual basis. The first approved demand forecast would be
published during the first half of 1987.
42.       KEPCO's expansion plan is based on the assumption that the annual
system load factor would stabilize at 70%. However, considering the recent
trend of an emerging summer peak which is rising substantially above the
winter peak, the system load factor is likely to continue to decline to around
65% by the mid-1990s unless substantial measures are taken to implement a
comprehensive load management program, covering state of the art technologies
and pricing policies. If the load factor declines, it would necessitate
larger investments than now planned. To avoid further declines in the load
factor, KEPCO will undertake a comprehensive load mAnAgement program and train
staff to implement this program.
43.       In the context of the proposed project, KEPCO agreed that its
Research Center will: (i) with technical assistance from the Bank, design and
implement an end-use survey and load manAgement program which would include
demand management technologies, as well as a more efficient tariff policy; and
(ii) embark on an appropriate staff training program.
44.       Overall planning of the power sector should allow more flexibility
to deal with uncertainties prevalent in growth of demand and relative availa-
bility and cost of fuels. This is particularly important to Korea because of
its almost total dependence on imported fuel to meet all its future energy
demands. KEPCO has therefore decided to: (i) review its loss of load proba-
pility (LOLP) standard, in collaboration with the Bank, weighing the cost of
additional investments to meet peak demand against the cost of outages in
various sectors of the economy; (ii) base its future plans on a range of load
forecasts with built-in flexibility for changes instead of relying on a single



- 12 -
base demand forecast as in the past; (iii) base its least cost expansion on a
discount rate which satisfies the standards (currently 13Z) applied throughout
the public investment program. Lastly, GOK will intensify studies of
alternative higher value uses of LNG in the industrial, residential and
commercial sectors in view of the higher cost of using LNC for electricity
generation.
45.       District heating and industrial cogeneration offer good prospects
for improving the efficiency of energy use in Korea. GOK has recently
established an entity, the District Heating Corporation, and is presently
implementing two pilot projects of district heating and two pilot projects of
industrial cogeneration. GOK has also started a pre-feasibility study to
identify the potential for combined heat and power (CHP) and industrial
cogeneration. Depending on the results of this study, the Government may
decide to implement a comprehensive feasibility study of the technical, as
well as economic and environmental impact of implementing cogeneration
projects. Once a decision is taken to proceed with a feasibility study and,
if requested by the Government, the Bank could assist in defining its scope
and content and collaborate in its implementation.
Electricity Pricing
46.       The average price of electricity in Korea in 1984 was .08$/kwh.
However, the rates for various customer groups varied from .04$/kWh in the
agricultural sector to .16$/kWh in the commercial sector. Industrial and
residential sectors paid .06S and .08$/kWh, respectively. Large industrial
customers have been subject to time-of-use rates since 1977. Rates in the
peak, intermediate and off-peak periods were initially in a 5:2:1 ratio.
Since 1981, KEPCO has moved these rates closer to marginal costs by reducing
the above ratio to 3:1.5:1. Further changes in the tariff structure are
necessary and they are discussed below.
47.       As a result of the peak-load pricing policy mentioned earlier the
peak demand has now shifted to the shoulder (intermediate) hours. The present
time-of-use rates are therefore not consistent with the structure of the
system s marginal costs. In 1984, KEPCO prepared an electric power tariff
study as part of the agreements under the Second Structural Adjustment Loan
which concluded that: (i) peak/off-peak intervals should be redefined; and
(ii) cross-subsidies among customer groups be reduced. The study requires
updating in view of the above reasons and subsequent changes in the cost of
services, particularly fuel prices. KEPCO will complete the study carried out
under the Second Structural Adjustment Loan to overcome shortcomings
determined by subsequent reviews and prepare a revised tariff schedule by
December 31, 1986 for comment by the Bank and approval of GOK.
Project Rationale
48.       Thus, the rationale of a lending operation in the power sector
rests, firstly, on the fact that investment in this sector constitutes 40Z of
the public investment program and the Government and KEPCO need substantial
external fiL.-ncing to implement such a large investment plan; secondly, a few
well directed changes in the investment program could significantly improve



- 13 -
the pattern of resource allocation; thirdly, consistent with its import
liberalization policy, the Government and MEPCO have decided to permit over-
seas competition under the project in relation to local industries which were
hitherto protected; and finally, COR is currently in the process of re-
examiuing many planning and policy issues in the context of its Sixth
Development Plan and the Bank's input at this stage could be of significant
benefit.
IV. THE PROJECT
Background
49.       The proposed project supports the development program formulated by
KOO for the augmentation of its T/D facilities.  A Bank mission appraised
the project in July 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
January 21, to January 24, 1986; the Korean delegation was led by Mr. Uhm Rak
YOng, Director, Economic Cooperation Division, HOF. Supplementary project
data are in Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5893-KO) dated
February 12, 1986 is being circulated separately to the Ezecutive Directors.
Project Objectives
50.      The project will assist in building additional T/D facilities which
are necessary during 1986-1989 to match the growth of KEPCO's least cost
generation ezpansion program and meet the estimated demand growth reliably and
efficiently. It will help implement important programs of end-use survey and
load management, and assist in improving the economic efficiency of resource
utilization through improved investment planning techniques in the power
sector. Efforts at rationalizing KEPCO's tariff structure will be continued
in the context of recent variations in demand characteristics and cost of
services. The project will directly support development of research in the
electricity sector.
Project Description
51.      The project comprises the following:  (a) the transmission and
distribution (T/D) component of KEPCO's 1986-1989 investment program; (b)
technical assistance and engineering services; and (c) a program for
strengthening KEPCO's research center.
52.      Transmission Lines and Substations.  The scope of the T/D component
of the project includes: (a) 1400 circuit-kilometers (ckl) of 345 kV and
1,789 ckm of 154 kV transmission lines, (b) 6,500 NWA of 345 kV and 760 NVA of
154 kV substation capacity; and (c) 21,800 ckl of 22.9 kV distribution lines,
3,300 WVA of distribution transformers and other equipment.
53.       The proposed project will complete the 345 kV loop in the eastern
and northern areas of Korea. The EHV system is designed to deal with the
imbalances in generation sources and the geographical distribution of
demand. The former are located mainly in the Southwest and Northeast regions
for environmental and other reasons, whereas demand is concentrated in the



- 14 -
northwest (about 40% around Seoul) and Southeast (about 36% around Busan).
The 154 kV system will be further expanded while 66 kV lines will be gradually
eliminated. The 154 kV lines will be used as subtransmission lines for power
transfer to local areas and to connect small sized new generating stations and
large industrial consumers.
54.       KEPCO's distribution program is definitive for the year ahead and
indicative for the following years in accordance with set Sixth Five Year Plan
goals. Assurances were obtained that KEPCO would provide the Bank for its
information and comment annual technical progress reports on the entire T/D
program pointing out any significant departures from the overall program
outlined above, and setting out the basis and details of the distribution
program in successive years beyond 1986.
55.       Engineering Services and Technical Assistance.  The project includes
funds for (a) a standardization study for future 500 MW coal-fired thermal
power stations; (b) a comprehensive load research and load management program;
and (c) other energy improvement studies. The standardization study is aimed
at (a) enhancing plant efficiency and reliability by optimizing system design
parameters; (b) reducing total construction costs of future power stations by
using repetitive designs; (c) ensuring better control of project construction
schedules and budgets by completing more of the detailed engineering in
advance; and (d) fostering greater use of local resources for equipment
manufacture and engineering. The first-phase of the standardization study was
successfully carried out during September 1984-March 1985 by Korea Power
Engineering Company (KOPEC) a public enterprise, and covered conceptual design
of a reference plant. The second phase for which funds are included in the
proposed loan, will (a) define all project systems and details which are not
site specific; (b) accelerate project designs after site selection; and (c)
reduce spare parts inventories by installing the same main units at all sites.
56.      As part of the program under SAL I, KEPCO established an electric
power research and development center in 1983. The center is expected to
become an important tool for the planning and implementation of energy
efficiency improvements such as load research and demand management. The
center is also required by its charter to ensure high standards of operational
efficiency in the power sector by carrying out technical research on power
generation and transmission equipment. KEPCO now intends to build up a full-
fledged research facility in the country's planned science and technology
center at Taejon which will become functional around 1990-91. On behalf of
KEPCO, KOPEC is currently carrying out a detailed review of future research
needs and ongoing research programs in the power sector. The proposed loan
provides funds to cover procurement of some of the equipment which would be
needed for this center.
Project Cost and Financing
57.       The project is estimated to cost $3,070.6 million, inclusive of
physical and price contingencies, of which the direct and indirect foreign
exchange component is $1,030.2 million (or about 33.6%). Base costs are at
1985 price levels. Physical contingencies have been provided at 5%. Price
contingencies which amount to 16X of the base costs inclusive of physical



- 15 -
contingencies are at the rates of 5.0S in 1986 and 5.5Z in 1987 to 1989 for
local costs and 7.0X in 1986 and 1987, 7.5Z in 1988 and 7.7Z in 1989 for
foreign costs.
58.       The proposed Bank loan of $230.0 million will meet about 9S of total
project costs excluding tazes or about 7Z of the total financing of $3,070.6
million required for the project. rt would cover about 221 of the foreign
exchange cost of the project and meet part of the foreign cost of KEPCO's
1986-89 TID program and research, and the total cost of technical assistance
and engineering services. The proposed loan will be made to KEPCO with the
guarantee of GOK and will be for a 15-year term including a grace period of
three years. KEPCO will bear the foreign ezchange risk on the Bank loan. The
remaining 931 of the financing requirements of the project would be met from
KEPCO's internal cash generation ($1,462.0 million) and other borrowings
($1,378.6 million).
Project Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement
59.       The project will be implemented by KEPCO, which has ample experience
of this type of work. All the work of engineering and construction for the
T/D component of the project will be organized in-house. To ensure rapid
implementation, procurement documents for equipment needed initially have
already been reviewed and approved by the Bank. Except for transmission
towers, all other TID equipment will be procured on an annual basis based on
approved budgets.
60.       KEPCO normally procures all goods and works for its T/D program
through local competitive bidding procedures as there are a number of
suppliers within the country, ensuring a reasonable level of competition.
However, during discussions with the Bank in connection with the proposed loan
and in the context of recent import liberalization policies, GOK and KEPCO
agreed that a select list of equipment and materials required for the T/D
program should be procured by KEPCO following ICB procedures in accordance
with Bank Guidelines in view of the favorable impact this would have on
economic efficiency in the sector. The select list comprises transmission
line towers, conductors, insulators, capacitor voltage transformers, lightning
arrestors, relays etc. - all for transmission lines and sub-stations - and
pole-mounted transformers, circuit-breakers and switches, watt-hour meters,
and concrete poles for the distribution system.
61.       Except for concrete poles, all other equipment financed under the
proposed loan shall be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. In bid evaluation for
equipment contracts to be let through ICB, Korean manufacturers will be
allowed a preference of 151 or the import duty, whichever is lower. Concrete
poles, which have a 402 foreign cost component, do not lend themselves to ICB
procedures because of their high freight cost and will, therefore, be procured
through KEPCO's standard procedures which are acceptable to the Bank, along
with equipment and materials not financed by the Bank loan. Civil works will
not be financed by the Bank. All civil works contracts will be awarded in
accordance with the KEPCO's procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to
the Bank. These procedures do not preclude foreign firms from participa-



- 16 -
tion. All procurement documents for bidding packages for goods and services
financed by the Bank and estimated to cost over $1,000,000 would be subject to
the Bank's prior review.
62.       KOPEC would be employed for the standardization study of large coal-
fired thermal generating sets, because it is the second phase of a continuing
study and KOPEC's continued employment would be cost effective and technically
desirable. Other consultants' services would be procured in accordance with
Bank guidelines.
63.       Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed on approved con-
tracts as follows (a) 10OZ of the costs of engineering and other consulting
services (b) 10OZ of the c.i.f. prices of imported equipment and materials or
100l of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment and materials
and (c) 40% of the ex-factory price of concrete poles. Retroactive financing,
for payments made after July 1, 1985 for the second phase of the Standardiza-
tion Study, up to $750,000 has been included in view of the urgency and impor-
tance of this continuing study. Disbursements against consultants services,
training and equipment contracts valued at less than $1,000,000 would be made
on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). To facilitate disbursements
for project expenditures, a revolving fund would be established with an
initial deposit of $10,000,000, equivalent to about 4 months of expected
expenditures. Documents supporting the SOEs would not be submitted to the
Bank but would be kept at KEPCO and be made available for review by the Bank's
supervision missions. Any savings under the loan would be cancelled unless
otherwise agreed with the Bank. The project is scheduled to be completed by
December 30, 1989 and the closing date of the proposed Bank loan will be
June 30, 1990.
64.       Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of physical
execution of the project and the technical assistance have been agreed with
KEPCO.
The Executing Agency
65.       Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO), the borrower of the pro-
posed loan, is a wholly owned government corporation. KEPCO was incorporated
on January 1, 1982 following dissolution of the Korea Electric Company Limited
which had been created in July 1961 by merging the three then existing
electric supply companies.
66.       After May 1984 and in conformity with the recently enacted
Government-Invested Enterprise Management Act, a two-tier management organiz-
ation has been introduced in KEPCO. The new board consists of a chairman,
KEPCO's president and eight other members. The president of KEPCO is the only
full time member of the board and the other members including the chairman ac_
in a part-time capacity. The chairman and the president are appointed by the
President of the Republic of Korea. The new board is a decision making body
and the implementation of its decisions as well as running of the day to day
business is the responsibility of the president who is assisted by an execu-
tive vice president and eight vice presidents.



- 17 -
67.       Several studies rarried out in the past had concluded that govern-
ment control over KEPCO was excessive and that KEPCO should be allowed greater
autonomy for managing its affairs. The Government-Invested Enterprise Manage-
ment Act is a positive step in that direction. The Act gives enhanced opera-
tional autonomy to KEPCO. More importantly, KEPCO's board of directors is now
empowered to approve budgets which previously recuired MER's approval. The
Act also gives greater powers to the president in the matter of appointment of
executive officers of the corporation. Simultaneously, a Government-Invested
Enterprise Management Council has been established at ministerial level in EPB
for laying down basic management policy, formulating common budget guidelines
and evaluating management performance of the government-invested enterprises.
Criteria for evaluation of the management performance of KEPCO has been
prescribed by the EPB. Agreement has been reached that within 2 months of
their completion every year KEPCO will furnish to the Bank for its informa-
tion, copies of (a) KEPCO's report to EPB on KEPCO's performance and (b)
results of EPB's evaluation of KEPCO's performance.
68.       KEPCO is the largest government-owned corporation in Korea.  Its
annual investment budget is over 50% of the total budget of all the government
owned enterprises. KEPCO presently employs about 22,000 full-time staff of
whom over 50% are engineers/technicians.  KEPCO has no difficulty in recruit-
ing and retaining qualified and experienced staff. KEPCO has an active man-
power development program incorporating local and overseas training for its
management and staff. A technical high school and an advanced level training
center are financed and operated by KEPCO. Specialized training or graduate
school courses overseas are also arranged for staff. In addition, KEPCO has
established a cooperative program for the training of its mid-level managers
with the Taiwan Power Corporation. Overall, KEPCO is an efficient and well
managed utility with energetic, qualified and highly motivated staff.
69.       KEPCO's accounting system is based on the uniform system of accounts
of the US Federal Power Commission and is adequately designed. The accounts
are computerized and the financial statements are completed promptly at the
end of each year. A comprehensive internal audit of each office is conducted
at least once in two years. The scope of the internal audit is satisfac-
tory. KEPCO's accounts and annual financial statements are audited by an
independent Korean public accounting firm acceptable to the Bank. KEPCO will
submit to the Bank its annual financial statements audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank together with the auditors report thereon
within three months of the end of each year.
70.       Billing for electricity is computerized and monthly bills are
prepared for KEPCO's 6.6 million customers in 6 computer centers. Over 50% of
the customers pay the bills through the banks. The collection ratio is good;
accounts receivable are less than one month's billing. KEPCO has made
insurance arrangements to protect its assets which are appropriate to its
needs.



- 18 -
KEPCO's Financial Position
71.       KEPCO's past operating results have been generally satisfactory.
Under the Gojeong power project (Loan 1788-KO, 1979) two financial performance
covenants were agreed: (a) a rate of return of at least 9% on a rate base
including (i) average revalued net fixed assets in operation less consumers'
contributions in aid of construction, (ii) 100Z of works in progress,
(iii) provision for working capital; and (b) a minimum debt service coverage
of 1.2 times. KEPCO achieved the 9% rate of return in 1980, 1981 and 1984 but
in 1982 and 1983 its rate of return was 7.2% mainly due to lower than expected
sales and large increases in fuel costs and the value of works in progress.
On a rate base consisting of average revalued net fixed assets in operation,
however, KEPCO's rate of return during the five years 1980-84 ranged between
13-15%. With regard to the debt service coverage, REPCO exceeded the agreed
minimum in 1980 and 1981 but fell slightly below that level to 1.1 times in
1982-84 because of high debt service obligations on borrowings with terms not
long enough to match the construction period and the time lag between plant
comuissioning and full commercial utilization of nuclear energy.  The Bank
agreed to the lower targets for these years in consideration of the above-
mentioned reasons.
72.       The large increases in fuel prices in 1980-81, pushed up KEPCO's
fuel costs per kWh sold almost three-fold between 1979 and 1982 before it came
down to twice the 1979 level in 1984 mainly as a result of declines in inter-
national oil prices and the commissioning of some nuclear units. Since fuel
costs constituted over 50% of KEPCO's operating expenses, the Government per-
mitted the following increases in electricity rates: February 1, 1980: 36Z;
November 19, 1980: 17%; April 21, 1981: 10%; December 1, 1981: 6Z. In July
1982, the Government approved a rate decrease of 5Z applicable to small
industrial consumers followed by an average 3% decrease in April 1983 for all
consumers to pass on to them the savings in fuel costs. The current average
tariff is slightly higher than the long run marginal cost of supply, a measure
considered appropriate for economic efficiency.
73.       KEPCO's future financial forecasts show a continuing satisfactory
level of performance. The assumptions used for projected tariff levels and
for fuel costs and other operating expenses are considered reasonable. The
projections show that KEPCO's rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in
operation (less consumers' contributions) will range between 9% and 11%
through 1991. Inclusive of the works in progress, the rate of return would be
between 7% and 8% in 1986-88 and about 9% in 1989-91. While inclusion of
works in progress in the rate base may have been deemed appropriate in 1979
for the Gojeong power project, the general practice followed by most utilicies
and in other Bank-financed projects has been to exclude works in progress from
the rate base to measure the financial performance of assets in operation.
Furthermore, comparing the lower, albeit still very substantial rates of
growth in electricity sales against what were expected in 1979, it appears in
retrospect that the financial targets established at that time were over-
ambitious. Under the proposed loan, the more commonly used definition of rate
base (i.e. average revalued net fixed assets in operation less consumers'
contributions) will be adopted for measuring KEPCO's financial performance
under the proposed loan. The minimum rate of return will, however, be 9% for



- 19 -
the period 1986-1988, and 10X from 1989 onwards. Assuming increases in
electricity rates in 1987 to 1989 to offset inflation at the same levels and
to reflect the long run marginal cost, KEPCO's projection shows that it will
be able to meet these rate of return requirements.
74.       KEPCO's debt service coverage is estimated to be about 1.0 times in
1986-88 and will improve to 1.3 times in 1989 and 1.8 times in 1991. KEPCO is
ezperiencing significant increases in its debt service obligations during the
period 1983-1988. While KEPCO is expected to meet its debt service
requirements, its internal cash contribution to investment is negligible;
KEPCO has to rely on external borrowings and other soukces for financing.
This situation is projected to continue until 1988. With the proposed rate of
return and debt limitation covenants (para. 75), KEPCO's self-financing ratio
will improve to about 402 in 1989 and remain at about 50X from 1990 onwards.
This improving profile of performance is satisfactory and results mainly from
reduced investment and lower debt service requirements after 1988.
75.       KEPCO and COK have agreed to take steps, including but not limited
to adjusting its tariff, to enable KEPCO to achieve an annual rate of return
of not less than 9g for 1986-88 and 102 for 1989 onwards on average revalued
net fixed assets in operation (less consumers' contributions). KEPCO has also
agreed to maintain a minimum debt service coverage of 1.2 times, except that
for the three years 1986-88, the coverage will be not less than 1.0 times.
76.       KEPCO's financing plan for the project construction period (1986-91)
envisages a capital expenditure of $10,976 million equivalent to be met 60X
from foreign and local borrowings. The remaining 40X will be financed from
net internal cash geaeration (25Z) and other sources (15); the latter
represents the estimated net increase in provisions for self insurance, staff
severance payments and retirement of assets. The financing plan is
reasonable. However, to guard against excessive borrowing, it has been agreed
that:  (a) KEPCO would prepare, by December 31, 1986, a ten year financing and
investment plan, taking into account alternative financing sources and the
associated costs. The plan would also include a study of the impact on
KEPCO's finances and recommend measures, if needed, to ensure a continued
improving trend of financial performance; and (b) KEPCO would update this plan
annually and provide the Bank with a copy of the plan, together with a
complete set of financial projections, for review and comment within three
moths of the beginning of each fiscal year.
Benefits and Risk
77.       The transmission and distribution component of KEPCO's investment
program accounts for about half of its total investment during the 1986-89
period, is designed to match the generation expansion program and to meet the
estimated demand growth, and is, therefore, fully justified. The internal
economic rate of return (IERR) for the investment program is 15Z. The annual
growth in electricity demand assumed for the IERR calculation is 7.92 based on
the latest demnd forecast agreed with KEPCO during project appraisal in July
1985. High (8.72) and low (6.9Z) demand growth scenarios have also been
developed. Under the low growth scenario, the IERR would be 12X; the high
demand scenario would raise the IERR to 16Z. Tne only project risk of any



- 20 -
significance is that of delay in completion on account of limitations on
KEPCO's financial resources.  This risk has been minrized by the extent to
which KEPCO's past ambitious development program. have been pruned during 1985
after Bank and GOK reviews. Being a T/D project, the impact of any such
financial difficulty would be either a delay of some system components or a
slight drop in overall efficiency, which will not materially affect project
success.
Environment
78.       KEPCO has designed its transmission and distribution projects in
accordance with sound utility practice and due regard to environmental
impact. The proposed project will be no exception and will cause little
disturbance to the environment. Underground cables are run wherever
necessary. No environmental problems are expected as a result of the project.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
February 20, 1986



- 21 -                                             ANN=  I
TOIAL~ 93.                         *6.            L *                                             75
3 1L1 1  3.4  21.2      22A       4 .
m iw  uu~~~~~~~~~~~ wxmmm                                  ZI&
1gL         197al  aiim              ol& ralt                LA. *NB           ac
CTOTAL)                               7.          11..3                                                     1.
P0RI3ULRAC 955C4 110 3..
0    Cw   cup                        ..*                   010.0              1011.1                    1675J9
PUUIAIIOF OZL 33 A200             143C0 4HL               110.30                                        13.
aaluPRARC (TH            )        2I03.0    3 10           .                     .0.0
1aZ1m   1101  t5 O6        )                                   1..7  41.1  4-5   33@                       67
,zunz a uuswtu-                                              s.
PE  SQ. 3.                        23.9        327.4       403.7               364.9                      43.0
P13 SQ. 5. A031. LAW             1223.1      1367J        1763.9             1 S1-2                      91.1
POPULATIO M03 T30XIUU CI)
0-14 ltU                          42.9        42.0         31.5               38.2                      38.5
I-44 13                            53.7       534          4. " 2      *        7.7                      57.1
454AM *53                           3.3         3.2         4.2                 3.3                       4.2
POPIAIATIGOWN113 #AWN (X)
T10AL                               2.1         2.1          1.4                2.3                       2.4
gum                                 4.7         4.4         4.4                 4.1                       3.4
CBUD3 SXM   3A41  CtE 7NO0S)         42.6        30.4         22.8               30.1                      30.9
CR1  DTE 3R18 (PER 70W53)            13.7          .4         6.2                 9.4                       6.0
mu  2_01 PST     3m                   2.6         2.1          1.3                1.9                       2.0
3*311.1 PLA452M
ADIO1U. _1AL  (10a)                 ..        671.0
USE35 CZ 0F ARIt M 311)             ..         25.0        36.0                34.5                      45.3
LM     OF FM0  P30  PUR CAPrTA
(194-71-100)                          9.0         9.0       123.0               124.4                     109.4
Pat CAPIT  sUWL OF
CALE    (X OF mawtiuzTs3)           6.0       103.0       124.0               115.7                     113.2
PQI2s (t3UM 1  DAY)                33.0        42.0        63.0                60.3                      69.4
OF UDWE A3AL AM  ULSE              7.0         6.0        14.0 /c             14.1                      34.2
0411  (AM  1-4) DIM 13T3             7.1         4.9          2.0                7.2                       4.8
LIF      T  AT 111 (Tam)             S3.9        39.1         67.4               40.4                      64.J
DnF      T. 3u4n (PU 7300)           79.5        50.0        29.0                64.9                     53.7
A  oS 70 n wAB (POPQ)
TO*L                               12.1        56.0        75.0  j             44.0                      65.3
URIAN                              1.6         U4.         6.0                 37.4                      76.5
RIURL                               9.5        36.0        41.0                37.1                      44.2
ACC33  TO MCUA DISPOSA
(x OF rOGAI
TOTAL                               ..         25.0       100.0 j0 30.1                                  34.3
036*3                               ..         5-.0        100.0               32.9                      73.4
301*1.                              ..          ..        100.0                44.7                      25.S
POPMAIMO 13 PUUICZ*                3540.0      2240.0       1440.0             771.7                     1909.7
PM. FM MORS=  P1506                3240.0 jgjt 1790.0 /t   350.0               2464.6                     6.2
POP.      HOSPIAL a12
TOTAL                            23LO.0      1150.0       i140.0             1112.1                     362.0
IIUU5                            1200.0      11O0.0       730.0eu             431.4                     422.0
L                                   ..          ..          ..               2394.9                    2716.7
ADUSIO   PU HOSPIAL.3                 ..         14.9         ..                 41.1                      27.5
AIZI   SUEm or 300331.
TOTAL                               5.4         3.2         4.3
036*3                               3.4         4.9         4.4
33m                                 5.4         5.5         4.7
AMB31GS 30. Of PUOU630
TOTAL                               2.3         2.3
1136*3                              2.6         2.7
RDUoL                               2.4         2.2
PnuC:IrAE OF WzLD     S WM
T0M                                28.4        49.9
UZUAM                              47.3        92.4
RURAL                              12.4        29.        "4.9 Ac



-22 -                                            ANNEX I
T *IIOT UI IT RAUP
1@ol        ma 1    r970  d         ASI TSA * A^=PSC       LLTo UlUtCA A  A
PwZNt  TOTAL                      36.0       103.0      100.0              100.7                    106.7
1Aa                    gS.0       106.0       102.0             106.4                     10.3
iinm~U                 86.0       103.0       33.0               97.2                     106.6
I*NUATI ToTA                      27.0       42.0        69.0               67.6                     46.2
MALS                   36.0        50.0       96.0               50.6                     62.7
FmuIAL                 14.0        32.0       65.0               ".                       64.9
VOCATIOSNL Cs 0l UgCuD*AT)          16.2       14.3        16.1               16.6                     13.3
PUIPZI-TUAU3IS RATI
PRIM!                             56.0        57.0       42.0               30.6                     29.9
*E0o0oUD                          3.0        37.0        29.0               22.2                     16.7
3A1B130  CITIO6N  POI                0.5         1.9        6.5  .            10.1                     46.0
ROjO UKIflW/2NA1D PM                31.2       126.6      432.2              172.9                    322.3
TV RICRnUB16/TwUAD PO                0.3        13.0      174.1               56.5                    112.6
NUnAP3R (C"LLT GOUA
IluSIT) CSTSZ2l0U
P1 TIIW0A*D sPOPULATIO             66.2       136.3      192.3               65.3                     61.1
CDI    AURA ATEIU1C/WIM              6.1         5.2        1.1                3.4                      2.4
~U -
TOSL LAE 1MU  (T300)              6204.0    11265.0    16016.0
PUAI. (133013?)                   26.1        32.7       32.3               33.6                     23.6
AMIZOLTzo  (acOM)                 66.0       50.0        3460               52-2                     31.6
ZiWIT  (cItm?)                     9.0        17.0       29.0               17.9                     24.3
PARICIPATION 3A1R (MRCmW)
TOTAL                             33.2        35.0       40.1               36.9                     33.5
MALI                              09.3        46.        53.1               50.1                     51.3
NZym                              17.2        23.0       26.1               26.1                     15.9
U:lO0IaTC DEVDUcT RATIO              1.6         1.3        0.9                1.1                      1.3
MCIOT 01 PRIATE 10cCU
.aozvao w
3 35m Ss or BOUUILDS               ..         17.1       16.1
HIGHUT 202 01 5Z..                           44.5        45.3 A               .0
LoiS? 2=  0r USOLS                 ..          7.1        5.7                6..
LODSSS 602 o0 3001D6               ..         17.7       16.9               15.5
LEML (CsS PU CA1TA 
033*3                              ..         ..        320.0                ..                     2B6.3
303u1.                             ..         .-        270.0              151.9                    185.3
ZSSDAM         ULUA2V   DOS     X
LVL (0511  CAPTA
0*U3 F                             ..          ..       370.0 h            177.9                    519.6
mg"*!                              ..         ..        310.0 l            164.7                    339.7
ETID  101. DEO ABSLT
10131?! DOGCCI LEVEL (S)
U*rA         Z                     ..          ..        18.0               23.5 
iRUDA                              ..         ..         11.0               37.8
MUT AVAILAEZ
NOM APPLICAEL
1 0 T 9 3
L     a groep SC avra    for each lndicator re poputlouts_ td auItbtite esns. Covewag of 'DImtr
_mog che IAdiatore depends on aealabfllty of dat and IS nt muntor.
n" Dn1ee ocherwet noted. Data for 1960" refer to *an yer betuse 1959 and 1961; wData for 1970" bet._
1969 and 1971; *nd date for Mt2st  ecet 9etln tt" bmt_  1961 nd 1963.
1977; /d 1980; / 1962; tf legsetrxed. not an praettiaq La tht  country; ji 1976; .h 1978.
JUix. 1965



- 23-                                       ANNEX I
ummorSOA OF SOCIAL IDAlT
I.mI  Ashaugh tdoe dm exe draw. Ar. ouc pmalyjudpd do m  ahadvd and ade. it ibadaa be naid di iy my oxE b iai_bedoaelly
ampe_   Iniame af io lock of md l   rd ddl__   en d  _mu  sal by dlffEa,i cain in aclel the dus. The de  e, nam  um . mWI to
dmibe  i f et '116 ldhm wendk. ma d_memelm  tai. myaJr dilh_m. bum murim
mm  I    or_ paN (I) dib _un mcuzy pmp of ibm oe t  ymd (2)  maty pupwishmawhaigher empe -n   dian .he amry
-ompd1kambjernuammy(umpt fr 1H1b I...OilEaPaetuepoup whineMidde emeNorthAfrica adMiddle En-ai' mcbur bernie asusrno'
sbdo.ldcWti_ eintlm).ladieaI    p  taaud  bm  oly wh  majaiy
efdwheemai.apuwbedimfo, thm ia mu         M Unm   ofoomsrin aaa4she jkawdarm depme oe the avadilabIty of dms md is mm unoem
muds. in" bemu   is I umgaveru st uemiar to amadher These versapam anly medulli compenbg se vlmg of oe idiasorea a matt*e a_og
dhe mmy ed I      pomp
AREA (thouaad sqkm.)                                         Crud Bth Rate (pw hrtinsd)-Number of live binhs in the year
Tam-Total srraae am compriang land ar  and inand waters      per thousnd of iad-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960.1970 and 1983 ddat                                      Crud Demth Awe (per th_aad)-Number of deaths in the yea
*   nir_  -Eatinate of sgricuural am uewd temporly or        per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
pCmanetly for crop. pas., market and kitchen gadens or to    GCemr Repwrd_. Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
ie falow, 1960. 1970 mad 1982 data.                         wilg bear in her nornal reproductive paiod if she exp
present ag-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averags ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at cumat       in 1960.1970. nd 1983.
market pnca, calculased by same conversion netod as World    F_xil Pffiug-Acceprmvr A _md (t_hessJduJ-Annual num-
Aeet Atasr (1981-83 bass); 1983 data.                        ber of accepton of birth-control devices under auspics of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family panning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lgnte.    Faudip Pleaa-Urers (p-er    o fuwried issm-)-The pCe=
petrolem, natural ps and hydro-. nuclear nd geothermal elec-  tage of married womien of child-bearinsg ae who are practicing or
tricaty) in kilograms of oil equivalent per cauita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are prcticing any form orcontraception. Women
1982 dataL                                                   of child-bearing age are genealy women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contrceptive usa  is meaured for other age
POPULATION AND VIrAL STATIS CS                               groups.
Tod F.pud ep k. MdYear (thesmad.)-As orJuly 1: 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTmON
and 1983 data.
D_bm Papniwiew (p f et qf toidd)-Ratio or urban to toad    &Inx ofrFon ProdwfiAi PerrCapita (1969-7/ -1 00)-ladex ofper
Lirua.Fbpktiu (ercnt ~f oel)-ati  ofurbn t toal  apta annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-    excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of datamong  countries 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    incude primary commodi"-s (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
-opmhd- prejeeti..                                           which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popukadkm  year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertilty rtes, morality rates, and  hvestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
inteional migration in the base year 1980. these paramcters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970, and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generaized  1982 data.
assumptions unti the population became stationary.           Pr Capita SpVy Of Calori (pecet of req    iMet)-COMput-
Statinary populat    -Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
taity mtes have not changed over a long period, while agespecifc  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
frtility rates have simultaneously remained at repacement lvel    tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- I). In such a population, the birth rate is    exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to hEc death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements wer
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the popultion in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replment lvel.                                       waste at household kvel. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Ppuation Momzntion-ls the tendency for population growth to  Per Capit Sappl of Aweie (gram per Aj)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-lev  fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved, that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The mnomentum of a porulation in the year r is measured as  provide for mninimum allowances of 60 gamms of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to tbe population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertiiy remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year i onward. 1985 data.                    75 gams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
p          D                                                 averag for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJtm.-Mid-year population per quare kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. anu 1983 data.             Per Capt P'ere Supply Frm Amad and NLse-Protein supply
Per :qk,m. qrgakural lan-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65,
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                        1970 and 1977 data.
A     _itm. Age Strisine (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-  Ckid (ages 1-4) Deat Rate (per dhbusand)-Number of deaths of
ing ae (15-64 yer). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pepahtu Girowth Rat (pereur-wetal-Annual growth rates of     from life tables; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Ppat  Gmrwth Raw          rnnual growth rates                lWe Epectancy at Birt (years)-Number of yeans a newborn
of urban population for 1950.60 1960.70. and 1970.83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 24 -                                             ANNEX I
at the time of of its birth we  to stay the  e  throughout it lif;  P secher Ratio - prImary, and scmdirr-Total students eo-
1960. 1970 and 19U3 data                                       moled in pimary and mcoday kwls divided by numben of
bo Muy Re (PM _               N      ber of infat who die      tacesb in the crrponding lvdL
befor rehing one year of age per thousad live birth mn a wver
yeau 1960. 1970 and 1983 datiL                                 CONSUMPION
Acess tS     Wim  (pweArtf .1_p eswd   wim, md                Ihssqe Cm  (For Ahe d e           )    a         can com-
,wd-Number of people (totaL urba  an ru) with reasonable       prise motw can seting les tn eight pesons. exludes ambul-
acm  to sf wae suppy (umind  treat         fa  waters or       anes. hear.es and military vehice.
unteated but uncontminated waer such - tht from prectd   A J   Xwd,.p  thosid-ll tpe of revcives
.boole. sp11n11 and saity Wel) - pemruen  of tdemr >emp-       for radio broadcasts to general public per thousnd of population;
tive popatonsL In an urba ar  a public fomtain or sdpoa          clde un-licensed receiven in countres and in years when
cat  not mor than 200      s coms  a hou   y be onid           regitration of rdio su wa  n efect; data for recent yeas may
as being witcin rsonbkl mpl   of that bouw Swe  ID metP       not be comparblc since mo-n ount es abolishad licensing.
bk ~~~would amply that the houswf or meber of the
bouwiwhd do not have to spd a disproportionate par of the day     Re rs (pwt         ,ceive for broadcast
i fSetbing the family's wa er s                                to general pubbc per thousnd populo  excluds un _censd TV
receEvers in countries and in yean when registration of TV se was
Access to Exoeta Diq.sd (percent of p.pdadmu )-eMeI4  mu,n    in effecrn
_nd  Nri-Numlber of people (total, urbLn, and rura) erved by
excrta disposl as pe_cntae of their rpecive populations.       N&pWf'edai   (Pgr tAheasiEpapsilk-Shows the avr-
Eacreta disposal may include the coectioo and disposaL with or  ale CiuatOil of "daily  nel intaest newspaer defined as a
without trcant. of human excreta and was-waler by water-       peiodica publ        devoted prmary to ecording general ocws.
borno system  or the use of pit prives and similar instalationL  It is consda  to be -daily" if it apper at kmt four times a week.
Papolde per PhyAdh-fbpulation divided by number of p  nla.-. A_md AtawAe per Copt per Yer-Based on the
tiing physins qualified from a medcal scbool at univerity klveL  number of tick  sold during the year. including admissions to
hdpul.d.i per NmrAw Pesu-Pbpulation divided by number of       drive-in cinemn and mobile uniats.
practicng mae and female gaduate nures, assant nurse,          L       F
practc  nurse and nursing auiliaries                              LAB a FORCE
h,l_u pgr HMpd    1-teed,1111, ME -l-Population                ald L_    F  fe_ -Eo                   y active pa    in-
(totaL urban, and rral) divided by their rpeie number of       duding arned forces a_-d unemployed but excluding housewive,
*.ospl  beds avaiable in pubiic ant priate, gaaaad V. ze d     students, etc., covering population or al aes Definitions in
hospkls and rchabiitatio  center. Hospitals re esbnt           various countries are not comParabl  1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permantly saed by at leat one physicia  Estabimets pro         Fmffe (p eem)-Female l.bor forc as pemntage of total labor
idig pnopslly cuodial cae am not inchided. Rurl hospital       force.
however, include health and medical cente. nDot permantly staffed  Ap*mhm (pmest)-Labor force in faming forstry. hunting
by a physian (but by a medical assistnt, nur  midwife. etc.)   and fising as peentae of total labor fo; 1960, 1970 and 1980
whnh offer in-pati accommodation and provide a limited ran     data.
of medical raiities.                                           ldary (pgrcest)-Labor force in minins, construction. manu-
Aduieis per Heqspil Nd--Total number of admissons to or        facturing and eletricity. waer and gas as percentag of total labor
dischrgs from hospitals divided by the number of beds,         fore; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
PmEdpnd-P  RAwe (pecaau)c en4   k. male,mftsk-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rats are computed as total male, and female labor force
Aerag 2e o HouseAoM (perso  per  e e                  _h,      as percentages of total, male and femal population of all ages
m,rwai-A household consiss ofa group of indivils who share     espectivelyr 1960 1970, and 1983 data. These are basd on ILOas
lving quarters and their main meal. A boarder or odger may or  paticipation rates efleting age-ex stuctu  of the populatin and
may not be induded in the household for statist   purpsm      long time trend. A few esimates a  from national sourc
A-ae N_se of Pes  per Roem-,toal wimn,_ ad raru--              Exco.e  Depeadmny Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of perons per room in all urban, and runr       65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventionl dwellings rpectvely. Dwdlings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied pats                   INCOME DISRIBUTION
Pecena  of DyeW   wi  Ekcbidip-tatl when, Mad   eI             Percew of Totsa Digos.k lame  iohm cas md
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quartrs as per=cc-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tap of total, urban. and rural dwellins rpecwtvely.            hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
AEus,ed Ewo_sn Rtos                                            The following estimates are very approximate mcasures of poverty
Itry scjool - totaaL male                             and     levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estmatd Abste Porty haome Ledl (USS= per eqp)-arm
respective primary school-age popuions. While many counties    ad rura-Absolute poverty income levd is that income level
consider primary wltool age to be 6-I yea. other. do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionaUly adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practces in the ages and duation of shool  non-food requirements is not affordabl
are rflctaed in the ratios given For some countries with univenrl  Eti _ed Redwlr  ebr  lacme Lel (USE per cpea)-h-rbm
education. gs  enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some     nd emil-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's stuadard prmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvel is
age                                                            deived from  the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondwry school - tota. mal amd female-Computed as above;     living in urbana
seondary education rquircs at les5t four years of approved pri-  Eimd Popuia._ Beow Abshbt Povery lwme Levd (pe-
mry mnsubon; provides gneral vocatonal or teacher training     ca)t-rfmmnd rmuP- Percent of population (urban and rural
insuction for pupis usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are geneally exludeai.
Vocatiad Evofnrai (perc   of secmdwyJ-Vocatiol1 institu-                 Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tiOnS incdude tenikaL industiL or other prorms which operte            Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



ANNEX I
-25-                                                  page 4 of 5
Populatlon    : 39,958 (1M93, tbousands) 1
CNP per caplta: US$2.010 (1983) /a
KOEZA - BEONOUC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                        Annual prowth rates CZ)
current price.)                   Actual                   Eutieated    Projected
Indlcator                                     1984            1981     1982     1983      1984/        1985          1990
NATrOMAL ACCOUNTS
Crown domestic product /a                  81,075            6.9      5.5       9.5      7.9          7.3           7.5
Agriculture                              11,285           24.5      4.1       6.3      0.4          3.5           3.5
Industry                                 33,166            5.0      6.8      13.1     10.9         10.0          10.0
Services                                 36,623            3.1      4.9       7.4      7.0          6.5           6.5
Conaumption                                58,828            3.2      4.3       6.3      5.1          5.3           7.8
Ccona investment                           24,308            2.2     13.1      13.7     12.4         11.2           7.6
Exports of GNPS                            31,194           17.0      6.9      13.8      7.9         11.3           8.3
Imports of CNFS                            30,927            7.6      3.2      11.1      6.7         10.1           8.6
Cro e national savings                     25.101           17.8     10.7      17.9     13.6          13.0          7.0
Prices
CDP deflator (1980 - 100)                                  1.158    1.241    1.275    1.330         1.375         1.624
Exchan_e rate (US$1 - I    )                               681.0    731.1    775.8   806.0           n.a.          n.a.
Export prlce Lndex (1980 - 100)                            103.0     99.2      96.4     98.1         97.6         142.7
Import price Index (1980 - 100)                            104.0     98.7     94.4      94.4         96.6         141.1
Term  of trade Index (1980 - 100)                           97.9    102.2    103.1    105.1         101.0         101.2
Share of GDP market prices (Z)                     Average annual increase tZ)
(at current prices)                          (at constant 1972 prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980   1985    199O   1960-70   1970-75   1975-50   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestlc product   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0       8.6        9.8       8.2       7.0        7 5
Agriculture             36.7    26.9    24.5    16.    13.6    11.3       4.3        4.9      -1.2       7.3        3.5
Industry                20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3   34.6    38.8    17.4         15.3      13.5       8.5       10.0
Services                43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3   42.7    40.8       8.1        7.7       7.6       6.7        6.5
Cosmutlon                 85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4   72.1    69.8       6.7        7.8       7.1       5.7        6.8
Crosa investment          11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2   28.8    30.9    23.6         11.2      14.6       6.0        8.9
Imports of CNPS            3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7   41.1    43.6    29.3         25.4      16.1       9.8        8.5
Exports of CUPS           12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7   40.2    42.9    20.2         15.8      17.0       6.8        8.3
Groas national sawving     8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7   27.2    29.7    17.2         14.6       9.0      12.7        9.5
A Z of GDP
1960    1970    19-5   19H0    1985           Labor force ln 1984        Millions       Z
PUBLIC FINANCE (exclud-
ing local government.)                                                        Agriculture                   3.9        26.0
Current revenue              18.5    17.8    17.9   19.9   19.7             Industry                      3.5        23.3
Current expenditure          14.3    13.1    15.4   15.6   16.3             Services                      7.0        46.7
Current surplus               4.2      4.7     2.5    4.3      3.4          Ubemployed                    0.6         4.0
Capital expenditure           3.4      6.4     6.4     5.9     2.6
Foreign financlng              -       1.0     1.3    1.0    0.1                  TOtal Labor Force      15.0       100.0
1960-70        1970-75        1975-80         1980-85        1985-90
OTHER INDICAUDRS
Annual CNP growth rate (Z)                            8.7            9.0             7.9            7.0             7.5
Annual CNP per capita growth rate (Z)                 5.9            6.9             5.2            5.5             5.9
Annual energy consumption growth rate (Z)            14.2            9.6             8.7            5.7             5.4
ICOR                                                  1.9            2.7             5.4            4.2             4.0
Marginal savings rate                                 0.3            0.3             0.3            0.3             0.35
Import elasticity                                     2.2            1.6             2.0            1.2             1.11
/a Prellmnary.
Eeat Asia and Pacific lagional Offlce
July 1985



-26 -                                                P       of,
Populatien      39,958 (1983. thonund.) /a
CGp per capita:  U82,010 (1983) /a
UIPA -  AZANCE OF AIMEUI E. TERNAL CAPITAL AIND DOBT
(UftiLo USI at current prie o)
Actual                         Rettemted  _efed
XDdic ktor                                 1970   19T5   l9W0   1981    1982   1963  l984/    1983            19L
BALANCE OF PAUK1TSB
imports of oo-d. and aervicee            1.379   5,884 22,577  27,269  28,356  30,383 33,627  38,900       83,800
of whieb:  brchfdile f.o.b.             662  5.003  17,214  20,671  20,679  23,204 26,280  30,700       71,900
Imports of goode and marwicem            2.12  7.997 28,347  32,416  31,504  32,581 35.516  40,500         85S6oO
of which:  Mrchandise f.o.b.           1,804   6.674  21,598  24,299  23,474  24.967  27,369  31,600     72,400
Not trassfars                              18O    227    449    501        499    592    526       600        600
Crrmet Account alanA                      -623 -1.887 -5.321  -4,646  -2,650  -1,606 -1,362  -1,000    -1,300
(C of GlO)                             (-7.1)  (-9.0)  (-8.7)  (-6.9)  (-3.7)  (-2.1)  (-1.7)  (-1.5)     (-1.4)
Dlirect inv. eset                           66      53      -5      59     100   101.4    170      200        500
MLT loan (not)                             242  1,252  2,096   4,267   2,051   1,332   3.300   3,000          900
official                                 147    486    689   1,337    88O    861    700          800        660
Private                                   95    765   1,608   2,929   1,171      471  2,600   2.200         240
Other capital (includig *rror.
and  oimi.o.)                            372    929  3,770    367        484   -975 -1,000    -900          300
Outsi in bu"rY. (aroma)                    -57   -494   -863   -316       -96      77   -740  -1,800    -3,300
nterntiomal leser_- (gross)                610   1.550   6.554   6,870   6,966   6.889   7,630   9,400     21,600
lloervas an outhe  imports                 3.4    2.3    2.8    2.5        2.7    2.5    2.6       2.8        3.0
LJW. CAPrrAI AND DEST
Gross Diaborameuta
Official grante                            -       -       -       -      50      -       -        -          -
Coucdeeioal loanD                        123    123    138    159        16   203.3    150       150        200
.-AC                                   '22    i       f21    15I    T1[  203.3    150          150        200
OPC                                      -       -      17       1       -      -       -        -          -
IDA                                      1      14       -      -       -       -       -        -          -
Other                                            I 1     -       _       _       _      _        _          _
lnconce.sional lo an                     317  1.511  3.655  46779   3.937  3.230  5.100   4.700           6.000
affici  exports credit                  18    151    606    86         532    500    750       700      1.000
InD                                      7    187    254    306    438    384    400           450        600
Other m_ltilatercl                       5      87      90     104     116    188    200       200        200
Private -  ource (residual)            287   1,063   2,705   3,525   2,851   2.158  3.750   3.350       4.200
Ihdium- and llgo  Debt
Debt outsta      nd diabursed          1.797   5.540  16,274  19.96   22.006 2B.170 29,800  32.800    40,400
Official - eoarc                       613  2,657   6,498   7,702   8.572   9,876  10,000  10,800      14,600
Private - mource                     1.185  2,883  9,776  12,263  13,433  18,294  19.800  22.000       25,800
Dediaburod debt                          902   1.679   7.072   5.996   5,324  4.298   5.980   5.960       4,400
Debt Servieo On E.LT La
Total meryice payments                   268    667  2,762   3,597   4,199   4.657   4.840   5,200        8,700
Interest                                70    283   1.310   1,777   2,164   2,187   1,980   2.300       3.400
Payments an Z Sf exports                19.4   11.3   12.2   13.2   14.8   15.3   14.4    13.4             10.4
9bort-lbru Debt
Debt outsta&ndin  and dibursed             -   2,409  10,047  13,658  14,100  11,940  11,500  11,000     13,000
Interest payments                          -       -    907   1,810   1,528   1,169   1.150   1,100       1,300
Interest as Z of oxport                    -       -    4.0    6.7       5.4    3.8    3.4       2.8        1.6
Aerae!   Interast late on Na Loan (Z)
Official                                 4.5    7.9    7.5    6.4    8.0   10.9   10.9    10.9             10.9
Private                                  7.1    9.3   14.0   13.6   13.7   11.7   11.7    11.7             11.7
Averake Isturity on New Loan. (year)
Official                                28.0   19.3   19.6   15.3   15.5   16.4   15.0    15.0             15.0
Private                                 10.9    5.7   11.2   13.1    8.1   11.8    8.0           9.0        9.0
As Z of debt outstanding
at nd Of moat recent er  (1982)
lItucity atructur of debt outstandilg
lattritie. due within 5 yearS                                            53.4
ibturitla. edn within 10 years                                          73.1
XDteret structu  of debt outstanding
Xnteort due witbin firot yer                                              8.7
LA Preliminary.
Esat Aie and PaciLfic Rgional Office
July 1985



AM=R It
Pa$s I of 2
- 27 -
l6VA
TM STAMS OF XMK ROP OMUATIONS 1m TM! REPULC OP tfU. /a
A. Stateoent of Bank Loans mnd DA Credits (on of Sawtmober 30. 1M8S)
Loan or                                                                              mount (8 million)
Credit    Calendar                                                                 (leas cancellatlons)
Number       Year         Borrower               Purpoas                   s nk       TV      IDA    Undlubursed
Fifty-one loanr  and *Ight credite fully dibursed                        3,109.33   40.00   115.53
1503        1978     ADC                  Agriculturlfrrwigation            36.0                           n.09
1666        1970      ISUAGO              Chung ju Mltipurpose             125.0                           2.47
1676        1979     Republlc of borea    lectronlcs Technoloy              29.0                           3.28
1758        1979     Republic of Korea   Second Owang:i ReXginl             65.0                          1.45
1774        1979     Republic of Korea   Population I                       30.0                          1A.46
1800        1980     Republic of Korea   Rduectlon V                       100.0                           1.10
1836        1980     Republic of Korea   Railway Vrl                        93.0                           0.11
1932        1981     KLTCB                KLTCU                             90.0                           1.49
1980        1981     Republic of Korea   gat. Urban Land & Houslam          75.3                          10.13
2004         1981    5111B                51111 IV                          60.0                           1.43
2072        1982     Republic of Xorea   Water Supply                       90.0                          16.90
2111        1982      Republic of Korea   Agrilcultural Marketing           31.3                           1.15
2112         1982     KTDC                TechooloXy Developmat             50.0                           6.10
2144        1982      CNB                 CUD 1I                            2A.4                           1.96
2215        1982      Republic of Korea   NachInery Industry                70.0                          54.15
2216         1982     lapublic of Korea   Met. Urban Land and lousing      100.0                          39.19
2228        1982      Republic of Korea   Provincial and County loads      125.0                          50.77
2267         1983     Republlc of Korea   Coal and Csnant Tiitrihution      76.2                          46.35
2309        19R3      Republic of Xorea   Industrial Fnance                253%0                          91.15
2350        1983     Republic of KCorea   Second Water Supply               7J.5                          50.40
2388        1984     Republic of Korea   Jeonju Regonal Deelopment          60.0                          57.72
2392        1984     Republic of Xorea   Rigway Sector                     230.0                         194.64
2427        1984      Republlc of Korea   Education Sector                 100.0                          46.51
2473        1984     KTDC                 Second Technology Deelopment      50.0                          43.03
2491         198S     Republic of Xorea   Water Supply                      45.0                          87.9R
2514        1985    51:                   Urban Transportation              53.0                          53.00
2515        1985      SIZC                Small/Tdime Industry             111.0  -                      111.0t/h
2549         198S    Republic of Korea   Fourth Agricultural Credit         25.0                          25.00
2571         1985     Republic of Korea   Second Industrial ?Inance        222.0                         222.00
2600        1985     Republic of Korea   Seoul-Unman Corridor               67.0                          67.00
2615        1985      Republic of Corea  Fourth Water Supply                38.0                          38.00
Total                                                       5.76R.03   40.00   115.58    1.394.30
of which has ben read                                       950.16   T.        1.nii
Total mw outstanding                                        4.817.17   3S.53   107.5n
Amount sold                  8.R3
of whibc has been repaid   8.83                                -        -        -
Total now b-ld by 'ank and IDA
(prior to exchane adjustmnt)                              4.817.17   35.53   17.50
Total undlbursed                                            1.394.30     -        -      1,394.3n
/a The status of th- prolecto listed In Part A are descrlbod In a separate report on all RenkJI'A-flananccd
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly ctd eirculated to the Executive Directors on April 3n
and October 31.
lb Approved on april 16, 1985 but not yet sinned.



- 28 -
AMN.X II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 3n, 1485)
Flscal                                                        Amount (S million)
Year        Obligor            Types of Business             Loan  Equitv Total
1968     XLB (RDFC)             Development Financing           -     0.7    0.7
1969     Wonam Silk Co.         Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970     Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -       0.7    0.7
1974     KLB (KDFC)             nevelopment Financing           -     n.4    n.4
1974     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -       0.3    0.3
1975     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            16.0    1.3   17.3
1975     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.        Capital 11arket Development   s.n    0.6    5.6
1975     Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.        Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975     Rae Un Dae nevelop-
ment Company Ltd.   Tourism                         2.8    0.7    3.5
1976     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -       0.4    0.4
1976     Chonju Paper Mfg. Co. Paper                           s.n    0.8    5.R
1976     Korea Zinc. Co. Ltd.  Zinc                           15.0    4.0   19.n
1976     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing         17.8     -    17.9
1976     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977.    Gold Star 8 Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -     n.2    0.2
1977     RLR (KDFC)             Development Financing           -     0.3    n.3
1977     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.    - Capital Market                   -      0.5    n.5
1977     Korea Development
Leasing Corp.        Capital Market                15.0    0.4   15.4
1978     ILB (KDVC)             Development Financing           -     1.1    1.1
1979     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -     1.7    1.7
1979     KIFC                   Capital Market                  -     0.6    n.6
1979     Korea Development
Leasing Corp                                         -     0.2    0.2
1979     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -     1.5    1.5
1980/
84/R5   Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -     6.9    6.9
1980     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market                 -      n.6    0.6
1980/    Korea Securities
82184     Finance Corp.                                        -     2.3    2.3
1980     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing           -     2.2    2.2
1981     Taihan Bulk Terminal
Co. Ltd.             Crain Port Terminal           7.0    2.5    9.5
1982/85  KIFC                   Capital Market                  -     1.1    1.1
1982     R-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)  Research & Development          -      0.6    0.6
1983/85  IMIC                   Money & Capital Market          -     5.9    5.
1084     Walla Cement           Cement Const. Material         4.3    3.9    8.2
1985     Korea Fund             Koney & Capital Market          -     9.1    9.1
Total gross commitment                              110.7   54.8  165.5
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                              103.4   18.6  122.0
Total comitments now held by IPC                      7.3   36.2   43.5
TOTAL undisbursed                                      -     5.1    5.1
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
KOREA
SECOND POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project:    1 year
(b)  Agency which has prepared the project:              KEPCO
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:             January, 1985
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:                     June 29, 1985
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                         January 24, 1986
(f)  Planned effectiveness:                              Ju.we, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)  GOK and KEPCO would agree to establish a permanent demand
forecasting committee by December 31, 1986 to review and approve
KEPCO's demand forecasts and to publish the approved forecasts on an
annual basis (para. 41);
(ii) KEPCO would revise the tariff study, which was carried out under
SAL-I1, and prepare a revised tariff schedule by December 31, 1986
for comment by the Bank and approval of GOK (para. 47);
(iii) KEPCO would achieve a rate of return of not less than 9% for 1986-88
and 1OZ for 1989 onwards on average revalued net fixed assets in
operation and maintain a minimum debt service coverage of 1.2 times
except that for the three years 1986-88, the coverage will be not
less than 1.0 times (para. 75); and
(iv) KEPCO would prepare by December 31, 1986, a 10-year financing and
investment plan, which would recommend measures, if needed, to
ensure a continued improving trend of financial performance; and
update the plan annually and Drovide the Bank with a copy thereof,
together with a complete set of financial projections within three
months of the beginning of each year (para. 76).



IBRO 19075R
i-' wUS.S.R,  127.     1'21 
CHINA                        DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF KOREA            J
P . 
IL&EA        JAPAN
4KVONGGI DO                                   A. 5 0'-'
ItZ-YOa                      'a@4   //  \  KANOWONDO
ti,0NoiII w~                  so
.          .  160  .,omZww.r\#J~~~~s rc\o                                                      f0 , 
REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                 , \
POWER SYSTEM                                                                        ------
AS OF JUNE 1985                               \            
w    ;:;J       ~CHONCHONGSU  / r          sN 
U "W                    r SAIQC,I) /._~~~~~~~~~~~--DN -0W@
I DO \   x$su\|&  q  _t         IYONGSANCSUK
5  0 rCHON     K   -    -
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
j    P050MG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M4G~~m  C
ot   iC JU                               v_^                iONCm
/280                   1 2) c9llo  |   t ; 6 /  as      W
/;  lCW  NAIVNDE       PRONGTNGA    N SISSION
CW2 1-<,fl A      IDOI k) LINES
K~.r4 _________                                              ______
-35~~~~~~~~~~~k  1QbAM DOk%-K35
r   ;    ., v   wNFIW    i   l~~~~~.|32 AW   -
128             ~~~~129
UNDER     PROJECT   TRANSMISSION
EXISTING  CONSTRUC1ION  (1985-1989   FACILITIES.
34t~~~~~~~~ 345 kV tlINES
~~~~~~~154 kV   Ilf
A          A          A       154 kV SUBSTATIONS
0    20   *0   60   80  100                                                                        MAIN GENERATING
S               Sao  10                                                                       FACILITIES:
KILOMETERS                                                                                YR
KtLO  VWTER                                                   PUMPED STORAGE
0_SD ._  -- o  7s                                                  THERMAL
3  3                  ~~~~~~NUCLEAR
CHEJU DOC                                                        DIESEL
.W.W_ftft~                  231 FA. DD IPROVINCE BOUNDARIES
.,  0442                                 -- -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
126         0            27'
MARCH 1985



