I)ocurncnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P -7312-SOL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 8.9 MILLION
TO THE SOLOMON ISLANDS
May 21, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 21, 1999)
Currency Unit = Solomon Islands Dollar (SI)
US$ I=SI$4.82
SI$ I =US$0.2 1
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                            Asian Development Bank
AusAID                        Australian Agency for International Development
CBSI                           Central Bank of Solomon Islands
CHS                            Community High Schools
DBSI                           Development Bank of Solomon Islands
DNPD                           Department of National Planning and Development
DOF                            Department of Finance
ESAF                           Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
ESCAP                         Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
EU                            European Union
FIAS                           Foreign Investment Advisory Service
IB                            Investment Board
MAF                            Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MHMS                           Ministry of Health and Medical Services
MLAR                           Minimum Liquid Asset Ratio
MTBF                          Medium-Term Budget Framework
MTWCA                          Ministry of Transport, Works, Communication and Aviation
NBSI                          National Bank of Solomon Islands
NGO                            Non-Government Organizations
NPF                            National Provident Fund
PSIP                           Public Sector Investment Program
PSRC                           Policy and Structural Reform Committee
PSRP                           Policy and Structural Reform Program
SIAC                           Solomon Islands Alliance for Change
SIEA                           Solomon Islands Electricity Authority
SIF                            Social Investment Funds
SIG                            Solomon Islands Government
SOE                            State Owned Enterprises
Vice-President:                       Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:                     Klaus Rohland, EACNI
Acting Sector Manager:                Ijaz Nabi, EASPR
Task Manager:                         Hilarian Codippily, EASPR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE SOLOMON ISLANDS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ...............................                       iii
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS, POLICIES AND PROSPECTS .I
A. THE CURRENT ECONOMIC SITUATION ..............................................;.I
B. RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE                          .3
C. THE GOVERNMENT RESPONSE                           .5
D. GOVERNMENT PROGRESS ON REFORMS                         .6
E. EXTERNAL SUPPORT                              .8
II. BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY .10
A. COMPARATIVE ADVANTAGE AND PARTNERSHIP .10
B. STATEMENT OF WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ........................... I1
HI. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .                    ..................................................... 12
A. OVERVIEW OF THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ..................... 12
B. IMPLEMENTING MACROECONOMIC POLICIES ............................................. 13
C. MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC FINANCES: FOCUS ON CORE FUNCTIONS .... 16
D. SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF FORESTRY RESOURCES ....................... 18
E. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMS ..................................................................     19
F. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPLY RESPONSE ...................... 21
G. POVERTY ALLEVIATION ..................................................................  22
H. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS ....................................... 23
IV. THE CREDIT ..................................................................  23
A. SIZE OF THE CREDIT ..................................................................  23
B. BOARD PRESENTATION AND TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS .............. 23
C. DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT ............................................................. 27
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT ..................................................................  27
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS ...................................................................  27
F. MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING OF THE PROGRAM ............................... 29
V. RECOMMENDATION .29
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: Letter of Development Policy and Policy matrix .30
ANNEX 2: Statistical Tables .46
ANNEX 3: Status of Bank Group Operations in the Solomon Islands  .       51
ANNEX 4: Solomon Islands at a Glance .52
Map: IBRD 14259
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- iii -
THE SOLOMON ISLANDS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:          The Solomon Islands
Amount and Terms:  SDR 8.9 million (US$12 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, with a maturity
of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years.
Description:        The proposed structural adjustment credit (SAC) supports the economic reform
program launched by the Government of the Solomon Islands in response to the
economic crisis.  The crisis reflects the cumulative effects of years of poor
economic management and weak fiscal discipline, exacerbated by the East Asian
financial crisis and the collapse of its major export markets for logs. The proposed
SAC will help restore macroeconomic stability and move the economy to a path of
sustainable growth and development, while mitigating the social cost of adjustment.
The economic reform program is assisted by the Asian Development Bank, the
Australian Agency for International Development, the Government of New
Zealand, and the European Union.
The SAC will complement policies designed to restore financial stability and
revival of investor confidence within a macroeconomic policy framework
acceptable to and developed with the assistance of the IMF. The structural reforms
it supports are in the following areas: in the public sector, reduction of the scope of
government, rightsizing and restructuring of government and the civil service, and
strengthening of planning, budget, accounting and monitoring systems; in the
financial sector, normalization of financial relations with Government,
liberalization, and strengthening of the Central Bank's regulatory and supervisory
powers and capacities; in forestry, measures to reduce exploitation to sustainable
levels, minimize the environmental impact and benefit development; in private
sector development, measures to stimulate a supply response, and improvements in
public expenditure allocation to benefit the poor and vulnerable groups.  The
Government's commitment to the reform program supported by the credit is set out
in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1).
Benefits and Risks:   Benefits. There are five principal benefits of the program supported by the credit.
First, it will restore macroeconomic stability and revive investor confidence.
Second, it will improve governance and productivity in the public sector by
implementing reforms that strengthen accountability and budgetary processes and
focus public expenditure on areas that generate maximum social returns, especially
in health and education. Improvement in service delivery will help alleviate
poverty. Third, it will create an environment more conducive for private sector
development and enable the private sector to engage in activities that promote
growth and diversification of the economy. Fourth, the program will implement
environmentally sound policies in the forestry sector that generate more sustainable
growth. Finally, the program will liberalize the financial sector, permitting the



- iv -
financial system a greater role in support of development, both by providing better
incentives for raising financial savings and by more efficient channeling of these
savings to support the development of the Solomon Islands within a market oriented
framework.
Risks.  Inherited problems such as a severe debt crisis, politicization and low
capacity levels of the civil service, limited donor engagement, deteriorating public
infrastructure, a narrowly based private sector, ethnic tension, and widespread lack
of confidence, have combined with the decline of the log export trade and
associated revenues to produce a very difficult environment for the Government.
The Government's political majority has strengthened considerably in recent
months. However, it comprises a coalition of six parties and is being asked to
impose additional severe adjustment costs on the community and business sector,
particularly on a number of powerful vested interest groups. Thus, diversity of
interests among the coalition members could be a risk to the program. Furthernore,
the potential for a change of Government at any time remains a risk, if a new
Government were to reverse reforms.
Given the difficult environment, an overall risk to the program will be the potential
for partial implementation of policies, delays and/or policy reversals, particularly if
recovery of the economy is slower than expected. The Government needs to
harness the support of interest groups, particularly the business community and the
NGOs, by providing relevant information to the broader community. The National
Summit in 1998 was an important step in this direction, where Government
medium-term plans were extensively discussed.
Insufficient coordination may be a further risk to the program. This could result in
inefficient project design and implementation of components of the Government's
program. Furthermore, it could lead to dissipation in Government support for the
rigorous reform program proposed, to the extent that financing from the donors
masks the immediate need for serious reform. But donors have coordinated their
approaches carefully and are aware that a joint approach is crucial to facilitate
reforms in the economy.
Poverty Category:   The SAC supports a reorientation of public expenditure toward basic social services
for the poor.
Disbursements:      The credit will be made available in two tranches, the first tranche of SDR 5.2
million (US$ 7 million equivalent) upon effectiveness, and the second tranche of
SDR 3.7 million (US$ 5 million equivalent) upon a satisfactory review of the
implementation of the agreed actions and achievement of the tranche release
conditions.
Project ID          SB-PE-61214
Number:



THE SOLOMON ISLANDS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation for a proposed
structural adjustment credit (SAC) to the Solomon Islands for SDR 8.9 million (US$12 million
equivalent). The proposal supports the Government's efforts to stabilize and restructure the
economy, particularly in the fiscal, financial and forestry sectors, to move the economy to a path
of higher and sustainable economic growth.
2.    The Government is committed to a wide-ranging program of economic reform. The
program is supported by the Asian Development Bank, the Australian Agency for International
Development (AusAID), the Government of New Zealand and the European Union. The
International Monetary Fund fielded a mission in March 1999 to review macroeconomic
developments and is providing advice in this area.
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS, POLICIES AND PROSPECTS
A. THE CURRENT ECONOMIC SITUATION
3.    With a population of 415,200 and a GNP per capita of US$750 in 1998, the Solomon
Islands economy is characterized by a small production base dominated by export-oriented
production involving tree crop plantations, commercial fishing, logging and a large public
service. Forests cover 78 percent of the land area, and forestry is the main sector in the economy
contributing about 50 percent of export earnings and 20-30 percent of government revenues in
the recent past (see Annex 2). Subsistence agriculture is the main source of livelihood for the
vast majority of the population. Foreign aid inflows have, until recently, averaged about 20
percent of GDP annually; nonetheless, improvement in social and economic conditions has been
slow.
4.    Though health indicators have gradually improved over the past twenty years, they
remain unfavorable. Infant mortality rates dropped from about 67 per 1000 in 1976 to about 44
in the mid-nineties, though there is some disagreement over the actual current rate. Life
expectancy has increased over the same period from about 54 years to about 70 years for both
sexes. Malaria remains a serious health problem, though dramatic improvement has been made in
recent years thanks to an effective anti-malaria program. In education the picture is even less
satisfactory than in health; the quality of education has declined in recent years. Other services,
such as water supply and sanitation, remain at very low levels compared to other countries in the
region. Only 64 percent of the population have access to safe water. Only 11 percent of the rural
population have access to sanitary facilities.



2
5.    The Solomon Islands experienced an unprecedented economic crisis in 1998, largely due
to the cumulative effects of many years of poor economic management and weak fiscal
discipline, exacerbated by the East Asian financial crisis. The logging boom in the mid-1 990s,
together with high export receipts and government revenues, had concealed structural
weaknesses in the economy. The over-dependence on logging and the resulting lack of
diversification, in particular, left the economy in a vulnerable state. Not surprisingly, the
economy suffered a major setback brought on by the collapse of the log markets in Japan and
Korea and the consequent halving of log prices in 1998. With log prices at around US$60 per
cubic meter - a price at which logging was unprofitable - this activity came to a standstill in early
1998. Although logging activity recovered during the latter half of 1998 in response to
increasing demands from the Philippines and India, prices remained depressed. As a
consequence, merchandise exports fell by 19 percent and real GDP by about 7 percent in 1998.
At the same time, the financial sector had become seriously over-exposed to the government and
the economic and financial stability of the country was threatened.
6.    The dimensions of the crisis were such that:
* macroeconomic stability was threatened by the fragility of the Government's revenue base,
the high level of external and domestic debt service arrears, double digit inflation, an over-
exposed financial sector and low external reserves;
*  structural weaknesses were impeding economic growth as evident from an over-reliance on
the forestry sector and the lack of a suitable incentive framework for economic
diversification.  An over-extended public sector, ineffective expenditure allocations,
inadequate expenditure controls, weak revenue performance and poor governance
contributed to structural weaknesses; and
*  the poor were badly affected by the economic crisis and by the effects of the devaluation of
the Solomon Islands dollar in December 1997. Specifically, they have been hurt by price
increases in basic commodities of between 25 and 100 percent, a contraction of the
employment market and heavy pressure on an already strained public service delivery
system.



3
Table 1: Dimensions of the Crisis - Selected Indicators
1995     1996      1997    1998      1999
Est.    Est.      Proj.
Real GDP Growth (% change)                   7.0      3.5     -0.5      -7.0       2.5
CPI (end of period, % change)               10.5      9.6     10.4      10.4       ...
Gross Official Reserves (months of imports)  0.8      1.6       1.2      2.7       3.4
(Millions of SI Dollars)
Government Current Balance 1/               -8.3   -25.9      -45.4     24.0      26.0
Government Overall Balance 2/              -59.5   -57.2      -66.7      2.0    -10.0
Extemal Arrears                              9.4    37.3       75.3     49.6       0.0
Domestic Arrears                            18.5    45.2      116.5     40.4      10.0
(In Percent of GDP)
Government Current Balance 1/               -0.7    -2.0      -3.3        1.7      1.6
Government Overall Balance 2/               -5.3    -4.4      -4.8       0.2      -0.6
Extemal Arrears                              0.8      2.9      5.4       3.4       0.0
Domestic Afrears                             1.7      3.5      8.4       2.8.      0.6
Total Arrears                                2.5      6.4      13.8      6.2       0.6
(Millions of US Dollars)
Ext. Current Account Bal. (excl. grants & int)  -27.6   -34.0    -77.0    -13.0    -23.0
1/ Total revenue minus current expenditure. 2/ Total revenue plus grants minus total expenditure.
Source: IMF Staff Reports, data provided by Solomon Islands authorities, and staff estimates.
B. RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
7.     Real GDP growth averaged more than 6 percent per year during 1992-95, fueled by
intensive exploitation of forest resources at three times the sustainable rate, in part due to soaring
international timber prices. Logging rates were considerably higher than those achieved in
earlier years and masked deep underlying weaknesses in the fiscal and financial systems, thus
delaying the onset of a severe crisis. Real GDP growth slowed to an estimated 3.5 percent in
1996, down from a high of 7 percent in 1995. The slowdown in the economy in 1996 was, in
part, attributable to a weak agricultural sector, as adverse weather depressed the fish catch and
output of key agricultural commodities, mainly copra, coconut oil, palm oil and cocoa. A
moderate improvement in log shipments in 1996, in response to favorable prices, was insufficient
to offset the unfavorable developments in the other agricultural sub-sectors. Real GDP declined
by about 0.5 percent in 1997.
8.     Consumer inflation, as measured by the Honiara Retail Price Index, averaged over 10
percent per year during 1994-96 and has not shown any significant decline since then.
Inflationary pressures have thus remained higher than that of the country's trading partners
through 1998, resulting in further losses in competitiveness and continued downward pressure on
the exchange rate. The Solomon Islands dollar (SI$) was devalued by 20 percent in December
1997, reversing the appreciation of the real effective exchange rate observed since 1995.



4
9.    Increased logging revenues combined with expenditure restraint helped reduce the fiscal
deficit to about 5 percent of GDP in 1995 from the equivalent of 7.5 percent of GDP in 1992-93.
However, after borrowing heavily from the domestic financial system, the Government reached
the legal limit on advances from the Central Bank in late 1995 and stopped servicing its
securities. The collapse of the securities market resulted in a halt in further lending from the
domestic banking system, and in the absence of any significant access to other financing, the
Government accumulated significant external and domestic arrears to finance its continued
deficit. The effectiveness of monetary policy was hampered because the minimum liquid asset
ratio (MLAR) had already reached its legal limit in the mid-1990s, and the Bokolo bills of the
Central Bank (CBSI), issued to reduce liquidity, could not be taken up by two of three
commercial banks because of country risk limitations. Further, the Government's default on debt
servicing of its securities since 1995 adversely affected the profitability of commercial banks.
This widened intermediation margins through the lowering of deposit rates. Real deposit interest
rates in the Solomon Islands became negative, with deleterious effect on incentives to save and
retain capital funds onshore.  The fiscal deficit remained large after 1995, reflecting
disappointing revenue performance and large expenditure overruns, partly offset by increased
external grants. With ineffective budget monitoring and control, overly optimistic projections
and continuing difficulties in raising offshore and domestic funds, a substantial further build-up
in arrears occurred. By end-December 1997, total government outstanding arrears amounted to
an estimated SI$ 192 million.
10.   The economy has begun to recover with a projected real GDP growth of 2.5 percent for
1999 and government revenues are showing signs of buoyancy. The balance of payments
position has improved and external reserves reached the equivalent of 2.7 months of import
cover at the end of 1998, largely reflecting a significant compression of imports and the
disbursement of the first tranche, amounting to US$15 million, of a US$25 million loan from the
Asian Development Bank. However, to guard against the recurrence of major crises in the
future, there is an urgent need to restructure and diversify the economy away from forestry,
strengthen public finances and the financial sector, and direct public expenditures towards
priority areas. The objective of the proposed structural adjustment credit is to help achieve such
a transformation.
11.   Over the years, problems in the fiscal system, the financial sector and the forestry sector
were closely interlocked:
* Government revenues were undermined to the extent of about SI$88 million over the
period 1989-97, due to granting of exemptions from export duty on logs;
. The weaker fiscal situation resulting from these exemptions contributed to the
inability of the Government to keep current in its debt service, and eventually
prevented it from settling its arrears to the domestic financial sector, which climbed
steadily to SI$116.5 million by end of 1997. From late 1995, most of domestic and
external debt servicing was suspended;



5
* The weaker fiscal situation contributed to poor service delivery, especially in the rural
areas, and lack of support in public investment to promote economic diversification;
* The decline in forestry activity since 1997 had a substantial adverse effect on liquidity
in the financial sector;
* In turn, the weaker financial sector was unable to provide adequate support to the
forestry sector and to economic diversification in general.  In particular, the
overexposure of the domestic banking system to the Government and the halting of
Government debt servicing led to a widening of the interest rate spread at which the
banks operated, with a consequent reduction in interest rates on deposits while
lending rates remained high. The result was a crowding out of credit to the private
sector.
* The lack of economic diversification, in turn, limited the tax base.
12.   The above problems could not be solved separately because of their interlocking nature;
coordinated and simultaneous actions on several fronts, starting with the fiscal, financial and
forestry sectors, were called for.
C. THE GOVERNMENT RESPONSE
13.   The Government elected in August 1997 was quick to recognize the grave situation. In
response, the Government formulated a Policy and Structural Reform Program (PSRP). The
program focused on a three-pronged approach: restoring and maintaining a sound
macroeconomic environment; reform of public finances, including the wider public sector; and
review and reform of the public service. A Policy and Structural Reform Committee headed by
the Prime Minister was established to manage the reform process, its scope was widened, and
four task forces have been set up to oversee: (a) public finance and rehabilitation, including the
privatization of state-owned enterprises; (b) public service reform; (c) a medium-term
development strategy; and (d) private sector development. The reform program is designed to
achieve five major objectives:
* restoring and maintaining stable macroeconomic conditions by significantly reducing
fiscal deficits and the Government's need for domestic financing; restoring
confidence in the domestic market for government securities as well as the capacity of
the Central Bank to conduct monetary policy effectively; and restoring the financial
sector to improve competitiveness and increase financial intermediation;
* improving governance and productivity across the public sector, in particular through
improving public service delivery in designated priority areas, e.g. basic education,
preventive health, agricultural support services and infrastructure to support private
sector led growth; and by reform of budgeting and public expenditure management to
enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources;



6
*  establishing the conditions for the private sector to become the engine of economic
growth in a competitive environment, and promoting policies to improve the
competitiveness of the Solomon Islands, business confidence and investment levels,
including foreign capital inflows;
*  implementing environmentally sound forestry development, including effective
monitoring and revenue policies; and
*  liberalizing the financial sector, particularly with respect to non-bank financial
institutions and especially those that are government owned or influenced, but with an
accompanying enhancement of regulation and supervision.
D. GOVERNMENT PROGRESS ON REFORMS
14.   The Government needed to arrest and reverse the deterioration in government revenue.
In line with this, the Minister of Finance revoked all discretionary remissions from customs
duties in November 1997; increased domestic tax rates, and imposed an import surcharge with
the budget for 1998; and strengthened the coverage and operating procedures of the Customs
Division.
15.   Public service wages have been frozen at the 1997 level through 1999, and the
Government is committed to reducing its payroll cost (excluding redundancy payments) by at
least 15 percent in real terms in 1999. Part of this reduction will result from the restructuring of
the Government to focus on core functions and enable it to improve service delivery in these
areas. The remaining part will come from a reduction in allowances.
16.  In the use of its resources, the Government has given domestic debt servicing the highest
priority. In January 1998, the Government initiated a restructuring plan for domestic debt which
included the resumption of interest payments on treasury bills, the conversion on maturity of the
existing stock of treasury bills to 91 day bills yielding 6 percent, and the payment of interest
arrears through monthly installments over two years. The Government established a revenue
account at the Central Bank into which all government receipts are paid. Under a standing
instruction, each week SI$1.5 million is paid to a debt service account at the Central Bank to
meet obligations. The Government has complied with this obligation, and in early 1999 reached
agreement with all major holders of treasury bills on restructuring of this debt.
17.   With regard to external public debt, the Government announced in the 1998 Budget that it
intended to repay arrears to multilateral financial institutions, regional organizations and other
international institutions. External arrears have fallen significantly from SI$75.3 million as of
end 1997 to SI$49.6 million as of end 1998. All multilateral and bilateral creditors have been
paid and only two commercial external loans (from Australia and Japan) are in arrears, both of
which are being contested by Government.



7
Box 1: The Adjustment Scenario
The Government needs to restore macroeconomic stability and to move the economy to a path of higher and
sustainable economic growth, to progressively improve living standards and provide employment for a growing labor force.
This will require a well-integrated set of policy actions, both on the macroeconomic and structural fronts, within a framework of
good governance and transparency. On the macroeconomic front, the main task is to return to an environment of low inflation, a
sustainable balance of payments position and renewed investor confidence. As an initial step, this will require tighter fiscal and
monetary policies, building upon the recent exchange rate adjustment and steps in improving fiscal and debt management.
Solving the interlocking problems in the fiscal, forestry, and financial sectors will be the next important step to
reinforce macroeconomic stability and create conditions for a supply response. The latter will also depend on the extent to
which the incentive framework and confidence have been improved. This requires a fundamental shift in the role of the public
sector to focus on core areas, and hamess the energies of the private sector and other stakeholders to generate economic growth
and employment.
The supply response, in tum, will generate income and employment, and improve the availability of goods and
services. It is crucial for poverty alleviation. The financial sector has a major role to play in a poverty alleviation strategy
through the mobilization of domestic savings and foreign investment, the provision of capital, and enhancement of project
development, particularly important for employment and the encouragement of small-scale ventures and self-employment In
addition, improved public service delivery, especially in public health programs and basic education, will be essential for
improving the quality of life of the poor and raising their productivity levels. But this will depend on a more robust fiscal
system that can allocate adequate resources to these sectors (see Figure 1).
Figure 1: Key Linkages
Fiscal Incentives
r-------------------- ---------'' ---- --------------
S ctor                      System I            /l
,i (   Forestry > 4  r     Fiscal    Anti-Poverty/                              Iceniv
. enuesFinancial          _ CreditPoic
Si, e ofPubiSector                                                       upprc Response
'   -   y   \n°^^             1     i                 V       &~~~~~~~~~&Growth J
Anti-Poet 
Programs        J
I/Revenue                                                         2frax Policies
/Expenditume                                                                 Tariff Policies
Investment Approvals
Consultative Processes



8
E. EXTERNAL SUPPORT
18.   The nature and magnitude of the structural adjustment program called for support from
several multilateral and bilateral agencies. The Government sought such support as follows:
The International Monetary Fund   -  Macroeconomic Policy Advice.
Asian Development Bank         -     Public Sector Management, including Public
Service Reform and a Movement towards
Performance-Based Management; Reform of
Public Enterprises; and the Strengthening of
Governance     through      Improving
Accountability  and   Transparency   of
Government.
AusAID                         -     Customs Administration, Accounting and
Auditing, and the Re-establishment of the
Forest Management Unit.
Government of New Zealand      -     Inland  Revenue  Administration;  some
aspects of Public Service Reform.
European Union                 -     Balance of Payments Support linked to the
SAC, Technical Assistance for the Ministry
of Finance, and for Education and Road
Rehabilitation.
The World Bank                 -     Public  Finance  Management, Financial
Sector Reform, Forestry Management,
Private Sector Development, Social Sector
Services.
19.   The IMF has provided the Government with an indicative list of actions that need to be
implemented for macroeconomic stabilization. The ADB program (US$25 million) was
approved by its Board on August 17, 1998. This program has made a headstart, with a
disbursement of US$15 million in November 1998, that has assisted in reducing external arrears
substantially. The downsizing of the public service financed by ADB's program will help reduce
the wage bill and complement the SAC. The AusAID program will strengthen public finances
and will help implement a SAC condition. The Government of New Zealand will also help
public finances and improve public service efficiency. Assistance from the European Union will
be focused on budgetary support and technical assistance for the Ministry of Finance, as well as
for education and road rehabilitation.



9
20.      External Financing.  The external prospects and financing requirements for the 1999-
2002 period are presented in Table 2. The moderate external financing requirements over the
period are largely driven by: (a) the recovery in international commodity prices (especially for
timber) expected over the period; (b) government intentions to pursue a sustainable forest
management policy with a much lower logging rate compared to historical levels; (c) scheduled
debt service obligations; and (d) the need to build reserves to prudent levels.
21.      Total  financing   requirements  over  the  two-year  period   1999-2000,  taking   into
consideration the need to meet scheduled debt service obligations as well as build reserves to
about 3.5 months of imports, are projected to amount to US$131 million compared with US$105
million (or 80 percent) in identified financing. The resulting financing gap, equivalent to about
US$13 million per year, is expected to be closed by balance of payments support from
multilateral sources. As the reform effort deepens over the subsequent two years, large external
grants as well as increasing private capital inflows are expected to meet the moderate financing
requirements amounting to under US$70 million per year.
Table 2: Solomon Islands: External Financing Requirements and Sources, 1997 - 2002
(In Millions of US. Dollars)
Actual        Est.                .Projected-------
1997         1998         1999         2000          2001          2002
Extemal Financing Requirements             87            65           65            66           66            68
Current account deficit (excl. grants & int)  77        13           23            27           30            36
Scheduled debt service obligations         11           35           22           24            25            24
Reserve accumulation ("-", reduction)     -1            17           20            15           11            9
External Financing Sources                 87            50           46            59           66            68
Grants                                    31            38           38            39           40            40
Public project loans                      8             4            1             1            1             0
Private project loans                     24            23           13            18           23            26
Direct foreign investment                 31            5            2             2            2             2
Short-term Capital and Errors & Omissions  -13          -14          -4            0            0             0
Arrears accumulation (+)                  6             -5           -4            0            0             0
Financing  gap before balance of payments 0              15            19           7            0             0
support
Balance of payments support               0             15           19            7            0             0
World Bank                                0             0            7             5            0             0
Asian Development Bank                    0             15           10            0            0             0
European Union                            0             0            2             2            0             0
Remaining Financing Gap                    0             0            0             0            0             0
Memo Items:
Scheduled debt service/exports of goods    4.6           17.9          10.1         10.4         10.2          9.3
and services (%)
Source: Data provided by Solomon Islands authorities and staff projections.



10
II. BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
22.    The proposed credit is part of a broader development partnership between the Solomon
Islands and the World Bank. This partnership, involving both lending and non-lending services,
is based on the World Bank's comparative advantage and is directed at assisting the Solomon
Islands Government in the reform program as set out in the PSRP and Medium-Term
Development Strategy. The partnership also reflects initiatives of the Joint Task Force on Small
States comprising the World Bank and the Commonwealth Secretariat which focuses on ways of
addressing unique problems of small states, especially vulnerability to natural disasters, external
economic shocks and the risk of marginalization.
A. COMPARATIVE ADVANTAGE AND PARTNERSHIP
23.    The main sources of bilateral grants for the Solomon Islands have been Japan and
Australia, while IDA and ADB have been the main sources of development financing. This is not
expected to change. There is a range of other development partners active in the Solomon
Islands, including New Zealand, UNDP and the European Union (EU).
Solomon Islands Reform and Development Partner Involvement
Prerequisites for Sustainable          Focus of the Policy and Structural  Engagement of Multilateral and
Growth and Development (drawn from   Reform Program                    Bilateral Institutions
comprehensive development framework)
Good and Clean Government              Major focus of PSRP             ADB, Australia, New  Zealand,
World Bank, UNDP
Justice System                                                         Australia
Fiscal and Financial System            Major focus of PSRP             ADB, Australia, European Union,
World Bank, IMF
Social Safety Net and Social Programs                                  Australia, New  Zealand, UNDP,
i___________________________ HUNESCO, UNICEF
Education                              Major focus of PSRP (in terms of ADB, Australia, New  Zealand,
improving  government's  service  World Bank, UNDP, UNESCO,
provision in core areas)        UNICEF, EU
Health                                 Major focus of PSRP (in terms of Australia, New  Zealand, World
improving  government's  service  Bank,   UNDP,WHO,   UNFPA,
provision in core areas)        UNICEF, UNAIDS
Water and Sewerage                                                     Australia, Japan, New  Zealand,
UNESCO
Energy
Roads, Transport and Telecommunications                                Japan, UNESCO, EU, Kuwait Fund
Environment and Cultural Issues        Major focus of PSRP(forestry)   Australia, New  Zealand, World
Bank, FAO, UNESCO
Rural Strategy                         Major focus of PSRP             ADB, New Zealand, UNDP, UNIDO,
ILO, EU
Urban Strategy
Private Sector Strategy                Major focus of PSRP             Australia, New  Zealand, UNDP,
.__________________________   Japan, UNIDO
UNIDO - United Nations Industrial Development Organization; FAO - Food and Agriculture Organization
24.    IDA's dialogue with the Solomon Islands over the past year, both on the current portfolio
and in terns of future assistance, has been focused on the economic reform  program. This



11
dialogue is grounded in a significant history of partnership between IDA and the Solomon
Islands. The Solomon Islands has received a total of six IDA credits since 1981. This includes
three projects in the Education sector, support to the Development Bank (DBSI) and two projects
in the agriculture and infrastructure sectors. The current portfolio consists of the Third Education
and Training Project, a continuation of the previous two credits to the education sector.
25.   IDA's lending experience to-date has been mixed. Operations in the education and
transport sectors have generally been successful, with the on-going involvement in education
contributing to a strong understanding within IDA of Solomon Islands' education sector. Project
activity has been less successful in the agriculture sector and in relation to the DBSI; a common
theme has been an overestimation of the capacity of the implementing agencies and an overly
complex project design.
26.   IDA also has a significant history of involvement in economic and sector analysis in the
Solomon Islands, including in the health, transport, agriculture and energy sectors. An important
focus of this work has also been in the analysis of the Solomon Islands' economic performance
and policy settings.
B. STATEMENT OF WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
27.   The strategy of the World Bank in the Solomon Islands is to support the Government in
its goals to implement the reform program set out in the PSRP and in the Medium Term Strategy.
This Medium Term Strategy is based on the understanding that a market-oriented and private
sector based approach to development is both more effective and feasible in the context of
Solomon Islands than one in which the Government is directly involved in production. IDA
assistance will involve a portfolio of targeted lending activities supported by a continuing
program of non-lending economic and sector analysis.
28.   In the near term, IDA's lending portfolio will be focussed on the structural adjustment
credit and in particular macroeconomic stabilization, public expenditure management and
financial sector reform.
29.   Over the medium term the World Bank's portfolio will maintain its strong focus in the
education sector, with a fourth education project being developed. Sector analysis undertaken in
the health area will provide the basis for extending lending to that sector. Given the essential role
that the forestry sector is playing in the adjustment and reform process, assistance will be
considered for the forestry sector. All lending activities will entail a clear, reform-oriented policy
content and will bring the global expertise of the World Bank to bear. Non-lending economic
and sector analysis, while remaining flexible and responsive, will support this focus.
30.   Given the large number of bilateral and multilateral agencies involved in the Solomon
Islands, IDA's program will pay particular attention to on-going coordination and consultation
with other donors. This will be based on the strong partnership approach that underpins the SAC,
with parallel programs being undertaken by the IMF, ADB, AusAID, New Zealand and the EU.
World Bank activities will complement, not substitute for interventions by bilateral and
multilateral donors.



12
III. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
31.   The World Bank's proposed structural adjustment credit (SAC) is designed to help
activate sustainable economic growth and development over the medium to longer term. The
SAC will focus on four principal areas: macroeconomic stabilization; structural adjustment in
key sectors; improving the conditions for a supply response; and poverty alleviation.
A. OVERVIEW OF THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
32.   Macroeconomic Stabilization. One of the principal objectives of the SAC is to help
restore macroeconomic stability through a more proactive use of the fiscal and monetary
instruments. The centerpiece in attaining this objective is the restoration of fiscal sustainability,
which is crucial for moving towards normalcy in the financial intermediation process. Substantial
further expenditure cuts are not feasible in the short term, even with improved expenditure
allocation. Accordingly, adherence to the budget for 1999 relies on a combination of structural
improvements and short-term measures to restrain expenditure and raise revenue. Adherence to
fiscal targets will be crucial for debt restructuring and reactivating the treasury bill market. The
proposed program to implement these reforms aims at: lowering costs to commercial banks and
therefore allowing them to lower interest rate spreads; restoring the ability of the Central Bank to
conduct active monetary policy; and affordability in meeting higher interest payments from the
government budget. The IMF has provided technical assistance to help re-activate the treasury
bill market and has recommended that monetary policy should also aim at bringing down
inflation to 7 - 8 percent in 1999, and should use net domestic assets of the Central Bank as the
intermediate target to guide the conduct of monetary policy
33.   Structural Adjustment. The framework for structural adjustment is the fiscal-forestry-
financial sector triangle (see figure 1). Complementing the public sector reforms assisted by the
ADB and revenue generation and collection assisted by the IMF and other agencies, the SAC
will focus on the quality of public expenditure, and ways in which it could be restructured to
promote economic growth and equity. Specifically, a shift in expenditure towards operations and
maintenance of public assets (e.g. roads) will support private sector activities, and the growth
objective. At the same time, expenditure shifts towards public health services and basic
education will help poverty alleviation. Adequate provision in the budget for expenditure in
these core services will be essential.  Settling domestic arrears will be a key factor in
strengthening the financial sector. The elimination of exemptions from export duty on logs will
provide more public resources to settle domestic arrears and meet high priority items of public
expenditure. The policy matrix focuses on appropriate conditions to address these interlocking
problems.
34.   Structural adjustment will help create the conditions for a supply response. First,
macroeconomic stability will be essential to lower uncertainty and risk premiums, and ensure the
twin goals of price stability and competitive pricing of domestic resources. Such an environment
will be a precondition for investors to explore foreign and local markets, and produce goods at
predictable and competitive costs and quality. Second, the SAC will focus on important



13
elements of the incentive framework, essentially microeconomic and regulatory in nature, to help
stimulate a supply response and to sustain that response. This will include reviews of tax and
tariff policies, price deregulation, streamlining of investment approval procedures, and
promotion of greater consultation between the Government and other stakeholders. Third, the
SAC will support expenditure shifts to basic infrastructure (mainly roads, water supply,
electricity, and telecommunications) and to catalytic functions such as agriculture research and
extension to help stimulate the supply response. Fourth, the SAC will focus on the financial
sector to ensure that it provides adequate support for private sector development, including
microfinance. The SAC condition that there should be no net domestic borrowing for the
government budget will ensure that private sector lending is not crowded out of the credit
market. The main sectors likely to show a supply response are fisheries, palm oil, coconut
products, cocoa, light manufacturing, mining and tourism.
35.   Poverty Alleviation. The immediate challenge for the Solomon Islands in the social
sector is to maintain, to the extent possible, previous levels of expenditure on social services, and
particularly on elements of social services which benefit the poor and disadvantaged
disproportionately. In the longer run the basic challenges include a restructuring of education
expenditures to concentrate on primary and lower level schooling; a restructuring of health
expenditure towards preventive, rural, local-level health care delivery; specific programs to
address gender inequalities, notably in education; and a coordinated and cost effective strategy to
provide basic infrastructure, beginning with water, sanitation and transportation. In general the
quality and currency of social data in the Solomon Islands is very poor. There is a desperate
need in the short term for adequate economic and social work to accurately establish the actual
situation with respect to social service delivery, levels and distribution of poverty, and the extent
and nature of gender inequalities. A poverty assessment, as proposed in the SAC, is vital to
designing a strategically sound human development policy and specific programs such as social
investment funds (SIF) for employment creation.
B. IMPLEMENTING MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
36.   The Government has been working towards establishing a macroeconomic framework
targeted at containing import demand and inflation; increasing real interest rates to enhance
savings; reduce credit to the Government and provide currency support; and providing scope for
a resumption in debt service and repayment of arrears. The most urgent priority of the
Government is to formulate and implement a coordinated set of fiscal and monetary policies.
37.   Fiscal Policy. Restoration of order to the public finances is the centerpiece of the
Government's macroeconomic stabilization strategy. The fiscal adjustment in 1998, in part
implemented through a sharp reduction in current expenditure, is neither desirable nor
sustainable from the standpoint of the country's urgent development needs. The focus of further
fiscal adjustment in the near term will shift to a combination of revenue enhancement, short-term
measures to restrain expenditure and structural improvement. Accordingly, and as supported by
the SAC, the revenue target has been raised to SI$383 million in 1999 (compared to a budget
estimate of SI$369 million) to remain broadly unchanged as a ratio to GDP. These targets will
be achieved primarily through strengthened collection efforts of customs and inland revenues.



14
38.   The additional revenue will pennit higher expenditures on certain high priority items.
These include health, education, infrastructure maintenance, redundancy costs from the
implementation of the public service retrenchment program, and higher interest payments on
outstanding domestic debt associated with fully normalizing the relationship with the financial
system and resuscitating the treasury bill market. Improved revenue should limit the overall
deficit to SI$10 million or about 0.6 percent of GDP in 1999.
39.   Other aspects of the fiscal policy framework to be implemented under the SAC include
the requirements that, in net terms, there will be no recourse to domestic borrowing in 1999; that
all foreign borrowing will be on concessional terms; that the current schedule of paying interest
arrears on treasury bills will be adhered to, and no new arrears will be incurred during the year;
and that the stock of outstanding arrears will largely be eliminated by end-1999, with
privatization proceeds used to pay down arrears. In particular, the Government has indicated that
it will remain current on National Provident Fund payments with no delays in the payment
schedule.'
40.   Reduction of the civil service payroll has been a key feature of the Government's fiscal
adjustment strategy, and is expected to lead to a more efficient public service. The Government
initially envisaged carrying out a major civil service "rightsizing" in 1998, and formed a public
service task force to carry it out. Progress proved slower than anticipated, in part because of
resistance from unions. However, momentum resumed towards the end of the year, and, with
assistance from the ADB and Government of New Zealand, the process was largely completed
by early March 1999, with the last few retrenchments taking place by end-April.
41.   Once order in public finances has been restored, over the medium term, fiscal policy aims
to increase public sector saving to finance development needs. This increase in saving will be
achieved through the maintenance of a broadly unchanged revenue-GDP ratio together with
reductions in current spending to the extent permitted by lower interest payments on public debt
and the impact of the retrenchment exercise. An increase in public savings in the order of 2 '/2
percent of GDP would permit higher development spending and a widening of the overall deficit
to about 3 percent of GDP in the medium term. This would be consistent with a decline in public
debt to sustainable levels of about 45 percent of GDP.
42.   Domestic Debt Restructuring and Reactivating the Treasury Bill Market.  The
Government reached agreement in mid-April 1999 with the major holders of treasury bills to
restructure government debt and reactivate the market for treasury bills. The restructuring
agreement has been designed in a manner such that: (a) higher interest payments and the
associated smoothening of debt service payments are affordable within the government budget;
(b) returns to commercial banks are raised, thereby allowing them to lower interest rate spreads
i.e. raise deposit rates and possibly lower lending rates - which will encourage both savings and
investment; and (c) the ability of the CBSI to conduct active monetary policy is restored. The
restructuring plan involves the conversion of a substantial proportion of the total SI$ 230 million
of treasury bills (currently yielding a 6 percent return) into long-term bonds between 2 and 6
' In addition, the NPF act should be amended to require that NPF contributions are made concurrently with wage
payments.



15
years maturity.2 Holders of bonds can opt for fixed rates ranging from 7.7 to 10 percent or
variable rates determined as a premium above the 6-month deposit rate offered by the three
commercial banks, currently about 5 percent. If holders elect to retain the short-term treasury
bills, the Government will continue to roll over these at the current interest rate of 6 percent,
unless a decrease is warranted by market conditions. In addition, the current Central Bank
advances to Government, amounting to about SI$75 million, will be securitized as treasury bills
and the interest on these bills will be determined through an auction process. With technical
assistance from the Fund, these treasury bill auctions are scheduled to commence in May 1999.
43.   Monetary and Exchange Rate Policies. In the past, monetary conditions were regulated
by the Central Bank utilizing quantity controls over the liquid assets of the commercial banks,
which mainly comprise treasury bills and balances held with the Central Bank. This instrument
was used as a means of forcing the commercial banks to fund the Government's fiscal deficit.
The liquidity ratio has been at its statutory limit of 40 percent for a number of years. To facilitate
liquidity management, the Central Bank issued its own short-term securities (Bokolo Bills) from
1997, but these have generally not been taken up by the banks because of sovereign risk limits.
CBSI liquidity-management through use of foreign exchange intervention has been limited by
the low level of reserves.
44.   Presently, to support the balance of payments and improve savings performance, the
Central Bank put upward pressure on deposit rates by lifting the call rate for commercial bank
deposits at the Central Bank and yields on Bokolo Bills. The latter have also been offered to the
non-bank sector to improve competition for deposit funds. As part of the debt restructuring
proposals, treasury bill yields will be increased to levels that reflect market determined interest
rates. Once the treasury bill market is functional, Bokolo Bills will be phased out. The
securitization of government debt will allow the Central Bank, over time, to undertake through-
the-year liquidity management.
45.   The minimum liquid asset ratio (MLAR) will be reduced from 40 percent to 7.5 percent
and will be redefined to exclude the restructuring bonds and treasury bills. In implementing this
measure, the Government will need to monitor its potential monetary impact closely to ensure
that monetary policy objectives are not compromised. Government does not intend utilizing
additional Central Bank financing for budget purposes in 1998-99. In this respect, the proposed
IDA Credit and other agency credit funds will play a critical role in providing finance that will
enable injections into the domestic system. Such support enhances financial sector confidence
that will be particularly important for domestic debt reconstruction and credit growth to the
private sector.
46.   Persistent high inflation in the Solomon Islands has resulted largely from the demands
placed on the economy's resources by expansionary fiscal policy of the past, a generally passive
monetary policy and structural problems which dampen domestic competition.3 Exchange rate
2 According to indications by the Government, agreement has been reached to convert SI$207 million into long-
term bonds.
3 In addition, it is likely that there are serious shortcomings in the measurement of inflation. The authorities intend
to seek technical assistance on the compilation of the CPI.



16
management geared to a real effective exchange rate target may also have contributed to
inflation, because of the absence of an effective nominal anchor. While the current level of
competitiveness, as measured by the real effective exchange rate, remains adequate, the present
regime of pegging the value of the currency to a basket of trading partner currencies will only be
successful if fiscal and monetary policies are geared toward bringing inflation down toward the
level of inflation among trading partner countries. The Government intends to use monetary
policy to bring inflation down to 7-8 percent in 1999, with a medium-term inflation target of 3-4
percent. Net domestic assets (NDA) of the CBSI will be used as the intermediate target to guide
the conduct of monetary policy. An indicative monetary program with benchmarks on the net
international reserves (NIR) and the NDA of the Central Bank has been developed with advice
from the Fund to enable the Govenment to monitor progress under the prograrn.
C. MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC FINANCES: FOCUS ON CORE FUNCTIONS
47.   Public Expenditure Measures. The budgeted containment of recurrent expenditure
cannot be carried out in an orderly way without immediate measures to reduce the scope of
governnent activities, restructure the government to enhance its ability to carry out these
activities, and reform and rightsize the public service accordingly. In particular, the size of the
wage bill in recent years, including wages paid from transfers to provincial governments and
statutory authorities, has preempted funds for operations and maintenance of Government's
existing assets as well as for investment. Lack of funding for nonwage recurrent expenditure,
together with a shortage of skills to cover the wide range of activities which the government is
involved in, has resulted in reduced productivity of the public service and deteriorating service
provision in the 1990s.
48.   The fiscal program for 1999 begins to correct these problems. The wage bill is slightly
above that for 1998, but this represents the combined effects of the right sizing of the civil
service --undertaken between January and April 1999-- and the one-time retrenchment cost. The
full impact of the retrenchment on the wage bill--estimated at SI$20 million or 13 percent of the
1998 wage bill-- will be reflected in the budget for 2000. The intention is to narrow the focus of
government operations to certain core functions, and to improve service delivery and cost
effectiveness in these areas.
49.   While the restructuring of Government is being undertaken a series of measures to
restrain public sector costs have been imposed, including a freeze on public service wages and
recruitment and limits on nonwage recurrent expenditure in 1999, and a wage freeze for the
public service and restrictions of payment of allowances for 1998. At the same time, designated
core sectors, health, education and infrastructure have been protected from expenditure cuts. In
line with Government's strategy to reduce the scope of government activities, the budget also
includes proceeds from sale of assets in noncore areas, including both government properties and



17
privatization of assets held in the portfolio of the Investment Corporation of the Solomon
Islands.4
50.   To ensure that public investment is well integrated with the expenditure on recurrent
account, the DNPD has completed a national Strategic Development Plan. This plan is the basis
for a three-year public sector investment program  (PSIP) for 1999-2001, and indicates the
recurrent expenditure implications. Thus the PSIP will be closely linked to the recurrent budget,
and the projects will be assured of funding.
51.   In the health sector, prevention is more cost-effective than curative care and has higher
benefits accruing to society. This will be reflected in an increased emphasis on essential public
health and basic health services. The Ministry of Health and Medical Services (MHMS) has
defined five priority program areas to improve access to services, especially in rural villages and
urban settlements. At present, essential public health services are largely dependent on donor
support while most public funding is spent on curative hospital-based care. Given the reality that
the overall public budget for health is not expected to increase in the coming years, there needs to
be a greater reliance on cost recovery at the upper levels of the health system. This will form the
basis of a medium-term development strategy for the health sector and will be reflected in the
FY2000 budget.
52.   In education, the priority for government resource use will be to improve the quality and
effectiveness of basic education. To achieve this, the rationalization of central government
recurrent financing of primary and secondary education is essential. Such rationalization has
become particularly urgent given recent developments in the education sector, which has
included the rapid, unplanned expansion of Community High Schools (CHS). This has led to
increased pressure on the recurrent budget, and a deterioration in quality due to lack of trained
teachers and learning materials. Accordingly, an education financing study has been carried out
to provide a unit-cost formula for a more rational allocation of public funds for basic education
and the use of the public subsidy for the provision of quality inputs. The formula, together with
methodologies for reviewing and updating it, will be implemented with the budget for 2000. In
addition, the first draft of an education sector plan outlining the priorities and policies for the
sector has been completed, and the plan will be finalized in 1999. The education sector plan,
together with the financing study, will form the basis for more effective future allocations of
public expenditures to the education sector. These initiatives are reflected in the SAC policy
matrix.
53.   In agriculture, the emphasis will be on expansion of Government support through
extension services, fostering scientific research and development of new production technologies
as well as improved seed varieties, and disseminating the same widely through the extension
network to support private sector activity and development of the rural areas. To improve this
work, the Farmer Support Program  is continuing to expand in 1999.  To support rural
development, the budget for 1999 contains a provision of SI$15 million for the establishment of
4 These proceeds are not included as government revenues, but rather as domestic funding of goverrnent
operations, reflecting their one-time nature (table 3).



18
a Rural Community Development Fund (RCDF). The RCDF, in contrast to its predecessor the
Constituency Development Fund (CDF), incorporates legal procedures for project submission,
selection and reporting as well as for release of funds.
54.   Budget Management and Control. Unrealistic budgets, inadequate accounting and
monitoring systems, and lack of accountability have in the past led to fiscal indiscipline, budget
overruns and mismanagement. In early 1998, the Government made a first attempt to remedy the
situation by developing a system of expenditure monitoring at the requisition stage on a monthly
basis. Ministerial Accounting Officers were informed that the Budget Unit in the DOF had been
mandated to ensure that unbudgeted requisitions would not be approved and that requisitions
could not exceed monthly-allotted allocations. Eventually the monitoring system will be replaced
by one based on the centralized computerized accounting system, once the Office of the
Accountant General has been strengthened and the computerized system has been made fully
operational. Work to improve the accounting system has begun with external assistance. The
SAC supports these initiatives and the policy matrix sets out appropriate conditions.
D. SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF FORESTRY RESOURCES
55.   The Government is committed to the principles that exploitation of renewable resources
must be kept within levels which ensure sustainability; must be managed in a way which
minimizes the negative environmental impact; and must benefit the development of Solomon
Islands. Adherence to these principles has led the Government to initiate some policy changes in
forestry, a key sector with the potential to contribute significantly to sustained growth.
56.   For nearly a decade, rapidly escalating export logging has surpassed sustainable levels,
reaching close to 800,000 cubic meters or three times the sustainable rate in 1996. Resource rents
have accrued disproportionately to the industry, to the detriment of landowners and government.
Governance of the resource has been very poor, characterized by minimal monitoring, forest
degradation through poor management practices, excessive and unnecessary environmental
impacts, considerable excess license capacity, undervaluation of the forest resource, and
inadequate national capture of resource rent. The collapse of the East Asian log export market
has had immediate and severe financial impacts on the Solomon Islands economy. In the
medium term, continuing to harvest at the rates of recent years will lead to rapid depletion of the
resource, resulting in financial disruption and ecological distress.
57.   The Government sees the downturn in logging activity in 1998 as an opportunity to
reform the policy environment and practices in the forestry sector to ensure that future activity in
the sector conforms with the principles above. Accordingly, the Govermment has already taken a
number of initiatives: (a) enacted a Code of Practice for logging; (b) initiated actions to re-
activate the Forest Management Unit; (c) prepared new forestry legislation for presentation to
Parliament in May 1999; and (d) with World Bank and AusAID assistance, initiated a forestry
taxation study. These initiatives are supported by the SAC.
58.   The legislation will lay the policy framework for sustainable forest management, ensure
resource protection and conservation, equity of development benefits, adjustments to log



19
licensing policies and procedures, and participation by all stakeholders. The new forest
legislation will be followed up with development of forestry regulations and guidelines to
operationalize the legislation. All forestry projects will be subject to the logging code of practice
and all gazetted forestry and environmental legislation. Performance bonds will be required for
all new timber operations.
59.   To reduce environmental damage from timber harvesting, the budget for 1999 also
includes allocations for training and for implementing the Code of Practice for Logging. Until
the current Forestry Division's review of all logging licenses is completed, and those in violation
of the forestry policy have been terminated, the current moratorium on issuing and renewing
logging licenses will be maintained. Government will determine annual allowable cut guidelines
and design the process to adjust annual logging license output to the sustainable yield level.
Alternative environment friendly development options will also be encouraged to minimize the
depletion of the forest.
60.   To strengthen monitoring of the forest industry, the Government has reinstated the Forest
Management Unit in the Forestry Division with Australian assistance, and strengthened the unit
by providing additional staff and budgetary resources. The Government has also obtained
additional external technical assistance to reinforce and implement existing systems of
monitoring of exports, field operations and prices in order to maximize resource rents from
natural forest management while minimizing environmental damage. A comprehensive review of
forestry sector taxation will be completed in 1999 to maximize national resource rent capture,
emphasize progressive taxation structures and rationalize incentives for the industry.
E. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMS
61.   Financial mismanagement in the 1990s has been the cause of substantial financial sector
instability, particularly since 1995, and distorted financial sector development. The growth in
public debt has crowded out private sector credit, and loss of public confidence and suspension
of debt servicing have increased risk premiums and interest rate margins, stifled the development
of financial instruments and institutions, and caused the closure of bank branches and agencies.
The collapse in the market for government securities has made liquidity management difficult
and, without effective monetary instruments, the exchange rate has become vulnerable to costly
shocks. The Government emphasizes the importance of a healthy, competitive and well-
regulated financial sector to sustain economic growth. The sector plays a critical role in
mobilization and intermediation of savings, pooling risk and facilitating investment. The
Government recognizes, however, that the institutional development of the sector cannot proceed
without concerted action to stabilize macroeconomic and financial conditions. Accordingly, the
Govermnent has taken a number of steps to enhance the operation of this sector.  The
Government has in particular made progress on the following:
* targeted a balanced government budget for routine operations for 1999-2000;
* implemented a resumption of domestic debt service payments and reached agreement on
restructuring of its domestic debt portfolio into longer-term securities;



20
* initiated a schedule of repayment of arrears, as indicated above, funded in part through
privatization proceeds and other PSRP receipts in the form of loans and grants -- which has
helped restore the health of the financial sector;
*  taken steps to lay the basis for resuscitating the domestic securities market; and
*  moved interest rates higher through increases in the Central Bank call account rates and in
Bokolo bill yields with the aim of restoring real positive deposit rates.
62.   The Government is also committed to implementing a number of other financial sector
reforms that will broaden and deepen the market, improve competition and access to credit and
financial services, and enhance the regulatory and supervisory system to ensure a sound and safer
financial system. These reforms, which are supported by the SAC, include:
*  broadening of the prudential supervision activities of the Central Bank to include the
National Provident Fund (NPF) as well as the DBSI;
*  completion of a review of the National Provident Fund in 1999 to analyze its current status;
identify deficiencies in its organization and its enabling legislation and finances; and propose
recommendations for strengthening its financial and management condition;
*  possible privatization of the DBSI; preparation for this will include a review of DBSI's loan
portfolio, risk management systems, and corporate governance framework and the
establishment of a time-bound implementation plan. Legislative amendments will be
required, particularly to establish an independent expert board, clarify the role of the DBSI,
incorporate safeguards relating to Ministerial interventions, specify the reporting, accounting
and performance requirements, and specify the capital structure of the DBSI. The DBSI
should be required to comply with all prudential requirements, although there should be some
allowance for a phased adjustment with respect to requirements such as the minimum liquid
assets requirement. The Central Bank will relinquish its shareholding in the DBSI; and
*  implementation of the Financial Institutions Act of 1998 which provides the necessary
authority to the Central Bank to enable best-practice international prudential supervision of
the banking system. The Government will back up these enhanced regulatory powers by
requesting the Central Bank to redirect additional resources to the Banking Supervision and
Extension Department. This department will also improve its supervision of the credit union
industry, particularly in view of the planned moves by this industry to establish a central
financing facility.
F. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPLY RESPONSE
63.   A principal objective of the SAC is to provide support for a supply response through
enhanced private sector development. To help stimulate a supply response, the Government has
assigned high priority to the work of the task force on private sector growth. The issues discussed



21
and recommendations made by the task force relate to: simplification of foreign currency
transactions; streamlining and speeding of investment approvals; improving the customs and tax
regimes; and reforms in labor laws. The recommendations have been already sent to the relevant
ministries for early implementation.  The private sector perceives that its current level of
dialogue with the Government is the best achieved in recent years.
64.   The Solomon Islands' rich resource endowment provides a solid base for enhancing
economic growth and development, especially in sub-sectors such as fisheries, palm oil, coconut,
cocoa and tourism. The Government's development strategy relies on the private sector as the
engine of economic growth, supported by a smaller, more efficient and motivated public sector
which provides a non-distortionary policy environment conducive to business development, as
well as quality services in selected areas. As part of this strategy, a privatization program has
been formulated with the assistance of the ADB and is currently being implemented. A number
of other structural issues center on reducing impediments to private investment, including
addressing difficulties in accessing suitable land, poor infrastructure services, inappropriate and
time-consuming investment approval processes, a still rather high import duty structure, and lack
of professional skills.
65.   Access to Land and Infrastructure.  To improve access to suitable land, and as
proposed in the SAC, the Government has identified tracts of underutilized government land for
the purpose of leasing to private investors. The Government will also review mechanisms
relating to the leasing of customary land to improve access and equity. Infrastructure services,
particularly roads and reliable and competitively priced electricity, are priorities. Investments in
these sectors, as well as adequate provision for maintenance and operating costs, have been
accorded high priority.
66.   Investment Approval. The Investment Board will be restructured into an investment
promotion authority with appropriate legislation. Viability and economic justification statements
will no longer be required, and procedures will be established within the Department of
Commerce, Industry, Employment and Tourism for investment approvals, based on compliance
with criteria to be developed. However, appropriate approvals relating to various regulatory
requirements covering areas such as the environment, hiring of foreign labor and town planning
permits, will still need to be obtained. Requests for tax exemptions will be addressed directly to
the Inland Revenue Department. Advice on the changes to the foreign investment processes will
be sought from the World Bank Group's Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS).
Restricted investment areas that have been used to protect local interests will be reviewed and
liberalized significantly.  The mining sector will become increasingly important to the
development of the Solomon Islands. The Governnent will establish, through the Department of
Mining, Energy and Water, a clear and transparent framework for the mining industry to ensure
accountability in the allocation of concessions to mining companies, limit investor and developer
uncertainty and, therefore, risk premiums, and to avoid a piece-meal approach.
67.   Tariff Reform. The Government is committed to trade reform. In this respect, the
import duty tax structure has been simplified and restructured from 19 bands (with a highest rate
of 220 percent) into four ad valorem rates of 5, 10, 20, and 40 percent. These import duties



22
provide high protection levels for a number of domestic products such as canned tuna. The
Government's aim is to further lower the dispersion of import duty rates with a maximum rate of
30 percent and lower other rates over the medium term, while reducing substantially the
remaining exemptions and quantitative restrictions. Because of-budget constraints over the short
term, changes to the tariff structuit  will need to be revenue neutral. Over the medium term, the
Government's intention is to lower rates significantly. Consideration is being given to replacing
import duties with broader domestic taxes. Domestic price controls will also be reviewed and
deregulated.
G. POVERTY ALLEVIATION
68.   The Solomon Islands ranks at the bottom of the list of Pacific Island countries by most
measures of Human Development. GDP per capita is the lowest of any Pacific Island country,
and its Human Development Index (a measure incorporating life expectancy, educational
attainment and income per head compiled by the UNDP) of 0.191 is lower than any Pacific
Island country except Papua New Guinea. However, poverty alleviation strategies are hampered
by the lack of a basic poverty survey on the nature, level and extent of poverty in the Solomon
Islands. Information available is qualitative and pertains to the delivery of public services. To
correct this situation, the Government has agreed to conduct a poverty assessment in 1999, and
its terms of reference have been reviewed by IDA. Pending the completion of the poverty
assessment, and initiation of specific poverty alleviation measures, the focus will be on
improving public services to the poor, especially health and education services.
69.   Access to the Rural Population. Much of the reason for the low outcomes on health,
education and other social and service indicators has to do with difficulty of access to the rural
population, which is still very isolated and dispersed. In 1997 only about 10 percent of all
villages could be reached by road, while over 40 percent could be reached only by footpath
(although about 50 percent of all villages are on the shore, thereby allowing access by boat).
Over 80 percent of the population is still rural and engaged in a primarily subsistence lifestyle.
70.   Structure of Social Service Expenditures. The level of expenditure on social services
and the social sector has been fairly high compared to other Pacific Island countries. However,
the structure of that expenditure has been such that the benefits achieved are far from being
optimal. Educational expenditure has tended to be biased towards the higher levels, and health
expenditure has likewise been skewed towards hospitals, particularly the central hospital in
Honiara, and urban areas. Though improvements are being made in this expenditure structure,
still more progress is needed.
71.   Improving Service Delivery. By seeking to improve the quality of public expenditure
management, the program has been tailored to direct resources to those areas that generate the
maximum social return and hence benefit the poor and vulnerable groups. Maintaining, in some
instances increasing, the allocation of the public budget for preventive health care and primary
education will help ease the financial burdens of the susceptible groups in society. Other donor
agencies and countries have indicated their commitment to provide funds to initiate programs or



23
sponsor on-going projects run by churches, community groups and other non governmental
organizations which are targeted at these segments of the population.
72.   The poverty impact of the program will be monitored through changes in food prices, real
wages and employment in the private sector. Moreover, budgetary allocations for the social
sectors will be closely monitored and their share of public expenditure will not be compromised
or diverted to other sectors.
H. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS
73.   The program will help implement environmental management strategies on several
fronts. First, the issue and renewal of licenses in strict compliance with existing regulations is
intended to stem the unsustainable rate at which trees have been harvested. Second, the
enactment of a Code of Practice for Logging and new forest legislation will strengthen the legal
and regulatory framework of the forestry industry. Third, the re-establishment of the Forest
Management Unit will provide a better monitoring and enforcement mechanism to ensure the
protection of the environment.
IV. THE CREDIT
A. SIZE OF THE CREDIT
74.   The credit amount of SDR 8.9 million (US$12 million equivalent) proposed in support of
the Government's adjustment program takes into account the external financing requirements
and the support likely to become available from other donors in 1999 and 2000. The credit will
be made available in a first tranche of SDR 5.2 million (US$7 million equivalent) and a second
tranche of SDR 3.7 million (US$5 million equivalent): the first tranche will become available
immediately upon effectiveness, while the second tranche will be made available after a
satisfactory review of the implementation of the agreed actions and achievement of the second
tranche release conditions. The closing date of the credit is December 31, 2000.
B. BOARD PRESENTATION AND TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS
75.   The program has been designed as set out in the Letter of Development Policy and the
attached policy matrix with specific measures to address the problem areas. To assist the new
Government in its policy deliberations and establishment of a track record, a World Bank
mission in early November 1997 provided a preliminary assessment of the situation and
presented a series of short and medium-term policy recommendations. The Government has
taken a number of measures since November 1997 to arrest further deterioration in
macroeconomic conditions, including the devaluation of the SI dollar, implementation of an
initial domestic debt restructuring plan, concerted expenditure restraint, and formulation of
revenue measures and a plan for downsizing the civil service. These measures are presented in
the policy matrix (Annex 1) under the "actions already taken" column. The reform process,



24
managed by the Public Service Reform Committee headed by the Prime Minister and assisted by
the four task forces, is functioning well.
76.   Board Presentation Conditions: The proposed credit will complement balance of
payments and budget support from the ADB and other donors. The Board presentation
conditions have been complied with as follows:
(1)   During January to April 1999 there was no net borrowing by the Government
from the domestic financial system. The fiscal deficit was funded by concessional
finance only. Privatization proceeds were directed to repaying arrears or reducing
debt.
(2)   Domestic debt rescheduling program was established with the commercial banks
and the National Provident Fund. The program involves a conversion of at least
50 per cent of the treasury bills outstanding into longer-term bonds. The first
tranche of the Central Bank advance to the Government was securitized by end
May 1999. Debt service payments on interest arrears were maintained as
formulated in January 1998. Monthly reports have been furnished to the
Association for January through April 1999 showing domestic debt service
payments.
(3)   FY1999 Budget expenditure outturns were within Budget appropriations on a pro-
rata basis, and Phase I of the public service restructuring involving 430
retrenchments was completed. Customs duty collections improved by 10 per cent
or SI$48 million above the FYI 999 Budget estimate (on a pro-rata basis by end-
April 1999). Public sector employer and employee contribution commitments to
the NPF were met. Domestic interest cost arrears repayment schedule was met.
There was no net increase in arrears.
(4)   The Action plan has commenced for the rebuilding of a comprehensive
government accounting system, so that the Department of Finance can establish
firm data on actual expenditure by budget head together with basic controls to
prevent unauthorized use of funds.  This includes a plan to re-introduce
reconciliation between program ministry spending records and Treasury payment
records.
(5)   A public announcement was made of: (i) Treasury bill auctions allowing the
market to set the price, and treasury bill rediscount facility introduced with a
penalty margin; and (ii) phasing out of Bokolo bills. Minimum liquid assets ratio
reduced in line with the debt restructuring. Monthly Monetary Monitoring
meetings have been held.
(6)   The issuance of new timber harvesting licenses and renewal of existing licenses
have been made in strict compliance with existing regulations.



25
(7)   The Government has put in place (i) external funding for the Forest Management
Unit, training in the application of the Logging Code of Practice, and
improvement of log export monitoring capabilities; and (ii) the necessary
counterpart funding in the budget.
(8)   The Government has identified tracts of underutilized government land for
purposes of leasing to private investors.
(9)   The Government has paid in full to all provinces the approved allocation for
January to April 1999 in the FY1999 budget for provincial health services, wages,
and malaria control.
(10)  The Government has prepared a proposal for a unit-cost formula, including
methodologies for updating and reviewing it on a systematic basis, for the
allocation of public funds for primary and secondary education. This takes into
account the current policies and range of quality standards in the schools.
(11)  Terms of reference, acceptable to the Association, have been issued for a Poverty
Assessment, which will help design appropriate social policies and programs to
deal with poverty alleviation.
77.   Effectiveness. There are no special effectiveness conditions to be met.
78.   Conditions of Second Tranche Release: The second tranche of the proposed credit will
be released after a satisfactory review of the Government's progress in implementing the agreed
reform program, as well as implementation of the following key conditions and actions:
(1)   Maintenance of a sound macro-economic framework, consistent with the
objectives of the Program, as determined on the basis of indicators agreed to by
the Borrower and the Association.
(2)   Expenditures on salaries for the Borrower's public service employees in FY1999
have not exceeded by more than 7 percent the amount allocated for such
expenditures in the FY 1999 Budget.
(3)   The Borrower has financed government expenditures in FY 1999 without net
borrowing from the domestic financial system.
(4)   The Borrower has used the proceeds from its privatization of state-owned
enterprises and joint ventures in FY 1999 for the repayment of its arrears and any
remaining amounts for the reduction of its public debt and the financing of its
public sector investment program.



26
(5)   The Borrower has completed, in a manner acceptable to the Association, the
actions set out in the Borrower's Accounting System Action Plan (as issued on
March 19,1999) to be taken in FY 1999.
(6)   The Borrower has prepared an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the
audit of the Government accounts by the Auditor General's Office and for the
review of such audits by the Public Accounts Committee.
(7)   The Borrower has caused to be carried out an external review of the Development
Bank's loan portfolio, risk management systems and corporate governance
framework, and has adopted an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the
implementation of the recommendations of the review.
(8)   The Borrower has caused to be carried out an external portfolio and actuarial
review of the National Provident Fund and has adopted an action plan, acceptable
to the Association, for the implementation of the recommendations of the review.
(9)   The Borrower has:
(a)   established a Forest Management Unit within the Forestry Division of the
Department of Forestry, Environment and Conservation, with competent staff in
adequate numbers; and
(b)   has submitted to Parliament a Forest Bill, acceptable to the Association.
(10)  The Borrower has converted the Investment Board into an investment promotion
authority and has taken steps, acceptable to the Association, for the simplification
of investment approvals, including issuance of relevant legislation and
procedures.
(11)  The Borrower has adopted a FY 2000 Budget that does not provide for net
borrowing by the Government from the domestic financial system.
(12)  The Borrower has adopted a recurrent FY 2000 Budget that:
(a)   allocates amounts for operation and maintenance activities of the Ministry of
Transport, Works, Communication and Aviation that exceed by at least 10 percent
the amounts allocated for such activities in the recurrent FY 1999 Budget;
(b)   allocates amounts for the operation of the Forest Management Unit within the
Forestry Division of the Department of Forestry, Environment and Conservation,



27
that are not less than the amounts allocated for such operation in the recurrent
FY 1999 Budget;
(c)   allocates amounts for preventive health services that exceed by at least 10 percent
the amounts allocated for such services in the recurrent FY 1999 Budget; and
(d)   allocates amounts for education programs based on a unit cost formula acceptable
to the Association.
C. DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT
79.   The Government will open and maintain a deposit account with the Central Bank of
Solomon Islands for the disbursement of these funds. The proceeds of the credit will not be used
to finance expenditures excluded under Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement. Upon
effectiveness, the Government will furnish a simplified withdrawal application to IDA, against
which IDA will disburse the proceeds for the first tranche into the deposit account.
Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases but the Government will maintain
supporting evidence for disbursements. If after the deposit is made in the deposit account, the
proceeds of the credit or any part thereof are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the
Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to either (a) return the amount to
the deposit account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in
which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit.
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
80.   The Central Bank of Solomon Islands, on behalf of the Government, will maintain the
accounts for this Credit in accordance with sound accounting practices. Within four months of
the request by IDA, the Government will provide IDA with a report of the audit by independent
auditors of the accounts and disbursements under the credit. The credit will support the
Government's effort to restructure the economy, with special focus on Public Finance
Management, Financial Sector Reform, Forestry Management, Private Sector Development and
Social Sector Service. A monitoring mechanism will be put in place, including the rebuilding of
a comprehensive government accounting system, to enable the Department of Finance to
establish firm data on actual expenditure by budget head together with basic controls to prevent
unauthorized use of funds.
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS
81.   Benefits:  There are five principal benefits of the program.  First, it will restore
macroeconomic stability and revive investor confidence by providing balance of payments
support and allowing the Government to partially reduce its debt burden. Second, the resources
provided under this credit will improve governance and productivity in the public sector by
implementing reforms which strengthen accountability and budgetary processes and focus public



28
expenditure on those areas which generate maximum social returns, especially in health and
education. Improvement in service delivery in these areas will help alleviate poverty. Third, the
program will create an environment more conducive for private sector development and enable
the sector to engage in activities, that promote growth and diversification of the economy.
Fourth, by strengthening surveillance and monitoring of the forestry sector, the program will
implement environmentally sound policies, that generate more sustainable growth. Finally the
program will liberalize the financial sector, allowing financial resources to be channeled more
efficiently in the economy.
82. Risks: The Government is confronted with a number of serious problems, many of
which resulted from the actions of previous governments and recent exogenous shocks to the
economy. Some poor governance issues have been addressed, as for example the discretionary
remissions of customs duties in the past. However, other inherited problems such as a severe
debt crisis, politicization, and low capacity levels of the civil service, limited donor engagement,
deteriorating public infrastructure, a narrowly based private sector, ethnic tension, and
widespread lack of confidence, have combined with the decline of the log export trade and
associated revenues to produce a very difficult environment for the Governnent. There is
therefore a risk of sliding back into macroeconomic mismanagement. This risk is being
addressed through the macroeconomic policy framework with the assistance of the IMF.
Moreover, the Government's political majority has strengthened considerably in recent months
(29 seats for the Government party versus 15 in the official opposition), giving it the strength to
adhere to an agreed policy framework. However, the Government comprises a coalition of six
parties and is being asked to impose additional severe adjustment costs on the community and
business sector, particularly on a number of powerful vested interest groups. Thus, diversity of
interests amongst the coalition members could be a risk to the program.
83.   Government Commitment to Reform: NVhile there is strong support for the reform
program from the inner Cabinet and particularly some interest groups that have been badly
affected by previous government actions, such as the banks and other creditors, support from
other groups and institutions is mixed and fragile. The magnitude of the adjustment required is
substantial. Given this difficult environment, the overall risk to the program will be the potential
for partial implementation of policies, delays and/or policy reversals, particularly if recovery of
the economy is slower than expected. Further, the potential for a change of government at any
time remains a risk, particularly given the likely anti-reform policies of any new government that
may assume authority in the Solomon Islands. The Government needs to hamess the support of
interest groups, particularly the business community and NGOs, and provide relevant
information to the broader community. The Government will need to develop a longer term
action plan that is able to articulate the proposed reforms, presenting not only the short-term
costs required of the community, but also the expected benefits over the medium term. This will
allow the community to adjust its expectations and assess performance of the Government
throughout the program. An important step in this direction was the National Summit in
November 1998 with the widest possible participation of civil society, the private sector and
donors, where Government medium-term plans were extensively discussed.



29
84.   Implementation Capacity. The implementation of reforms will require a substantially
increased effort by the public service and a number of changes to current practices. This will be
needed after downsizing of the public service and real salary reductions. Staff absenteeism and
poor work practices are very common. The Government's task force on public sector reform will
need to be careful not to lose the highly skilled officers. It will need to design and implement a
substantial capacity building program and provide increased incentives for performnance (as well
as additional sanctions for poor performance). In this respect, the Government has made specific
requests to the external agencies for technical assistance for various areas such as public service
reform, privatization, planning, budgeting, statistics, financial sector, Audit Office, Customs and
Inland Revenue, the Forest Management Unit etc. The Government will also need to consider
utilizing the private sector more for the provision of certain services, as well as making a more
efficient allocation of operating funds to departments and agencies. While technical assistance is
likely to be available from donors and the World Bank, ownership of the program by officials is
weak and, consequently, there is a risk that program implementation could be slower than
anticipated and that the lack of commitment could frustrate the limited number of reformers.
F. MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING OF THE PROGRAM
85.   Given the poor record of previous governments in the Solomon Islands in adherence to
stated commitments, the formulation of a reform program and implementation of the initial
phases are seen as essential in establishing the necessary track record. The management and
monitoring aspects of the proposed credit are designed to assist with provision of timely
information of actions and to coordinate the various measures to maintain the program on course.
The Government has established a Policy and Structural Reform Committee (PSRC) under the
Prime Minister with four major technical task forces of officials. The PSRC will coordinate and
monitor the implementation of the reform program and receive timely reports on
accomplishments, problems and adjustments from the four task forces. These reports will also be
forwarded to IDA and other development partners.
V. RECOMMENDATION
86.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit will comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
May 21, 1999



30
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 16
MINISTER OF FINANCE                                                   P.O. BOX 26
HONIARA
SOLOMON ISLANDS
May 13, 1999
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
POLICY AND STRUCTURAL REFORM PROGRAM
The Government of Solomon Islands is in the process of implementing a comprehensive
program of stabilization and structural reform measures with the objectives of restoring
macroeconomic stability and establishing the conditions for achieving higher rates of
sustainable economic growth and employment. In support of its Structural Adjustment
Program for 1999-2000, which has been developed in consultation with the World Bank,
the Governmnent hereby requests a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) from the
International Development Association (IDA).  The objectives and policies of the
Structural Adjustment Program are described below as well as in the attached matrix of
policy actions which forms an integral part of this letter.
Background
The Government which came to office in August 1997 inherited an unprecedented fiscal
and financial crisis, originating in long standing, but unresolved, fiscal problems which
were exacerbated by the collapse of Solomon Islands' principal export markets for logs in
East Asia in early 1998. Strong growth in GDP and exports from the early 1990s, led by
logging far in excess of sustainable levels, coincided with persistent high overall fiscal
deficits. Government revenue was eroded by tax policy, remissions, exemptions, and
general tax avoidance; and efforts to. contain expenditure in order to limit the
Government's domestic financing needs were not effective. Fiscal indiscipline resulted
from unrealistic budgeting as well as from poor and deteriorating accounting,
information, and control systems. In late 1995 the domestic market for government
securities collapsed when the legal limit on advances from the Central Bank (CBS[) was
reached and the servicing of government securities was suspended.
Budget and expenditure management since then has been complicated by the
Government's virtual lack of access to domestic and foreign funding, except in the forrn
of forced financing (arrears) and project grants and loans from external sources.
Nevertheless, between 1995 and mid-1997 the Government did not address the budgetary
problems in a comprehensive manner. Budget management problems intensified further
in 1998, when the downturn in Solomon Islands' major export markets for timber, in
addition to persistent problems in revenue collection, accompanied significant
overestimates of revenue in the budget. The need to reduce cash expenditure to far below
the budgeted levels resulted in a further deterioration in service provision.



31
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 16
overestimates of revenue in the budget. The need to reduce cash expenditure to far below
the budgeted levels resulted in a further deterioration in service provision.
We inherited a bloated, too costly and inefficient government, which was involved,
directly or through a number of statutory entities and public enterprises, in a wide range
of activities, including a number of commercial or potentially commercial ventures. But
it still did not meet basic service needs in core areas, such as health, education and
infrastructure. and with service provision virtually absent from rural areas where 80
percent of the population lives. Budget allocations for maintenance remained far below
needed levels; and the size and composition of public investment was largely dependent
on donor priorities and funding. The quality of life of the population of the Solomon
Islands is suffering both from the reduced level and quality of public service provision,
and from the effects of the fiscal crisis on the financial system and the external balance.
The crisis in goverrunent finances, particularly the halt to debt servicing on govemrnent
securities, led to excess liquidity in the financial system, depressed deposit rates and
threatened financial intermediation. At the same time, banks increased sharply the spread
between deposit and lending rates to retain their profitability, given their portfolio of
goverunent securities which were unserviced until 1998 when the Government resumed
interest payments, but at a reduced rate of 6 percent. Furthermore, the public access to
the financial system, and particularly that of the rural population, was curtailed when the
National Bank of Solomon Islands (NBSI) closed over 40 agencies in late 1997. The
CBS,I's ability to conduct monetary policy effectively was hampered because: (a) the
minimum liquid asset ratio (MLAR) had already reached its legal limit in the mid-1990s;
and (b) its Bokolo bills, issued to reduce excess liquidity, could not be taken up by two of
the three commercial banks because of country risk limitations. The combination of the
fiscal problems, the collapse of Solomon Islands' export market for timber, and the
inability of the CBSI to tighten monetary policy was reflected in a deterioration in both
the extemal current and overall position.  The Solomon Islands dollar (SBD) was
devalued by 20 percent in December 1997.
Governm-ent's Structural Adjustment Program
The Solomon Islands Government, although not initially aware of the seriousness of the
crisis that it faced immediately on taking office in late August 1997, was formed
explicitly to make changes to improve the social and economic conditions and
performance of Solomon Islands.  The Goverrnment has accordingly embarked on
formulating a Policy and Structural Reform Program (PSRP) with initial focus on
rehabilitating the public service and public finances, to be followed quickly by policy and
structural charnges in key economic and social sectors. It is the Government's belief that
only when these essential components of government are brought under control and made
operationally effective can resources be brought to bear on improving the policies,
services and infrastructure required for sustained eco'nomic growth.
The Polidv and Structural Reform Committee (PSRC) was formed in the Office of the
Prime Minister to oversee the fornulation, design and implementation of the program.



32
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 16
Four task forces were established under the PSRC to oversee: (a) the rehabilitation of
government finances, the privatization of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and the
financial performance of the public sector; (b) the review and revitalization of the public
service (including size, structure, conditions and organization); (c) a medium-term
development strategy; and (d) private sector development.
Urgent measures to halt the deterioration in the fiscal and financial performance were
taken separately in late 1997 and early 1998. These included the above mentioned
currency devaluation and the cancellation of all discretionary duty remissions in
November 1997. As part of the effort to improve confidence in govemrnment and
regularize its position with domestic holders of its securities, the Government also
announced in early 1998 that it would keep current on its debt service falling due during
the year, and thereafter complied with this obligation and reduced its interest arrears
under very difficult circumstances in 1998. Furthermnore, a general wage freeze was
announced for government employees for 1998.
The main elements of the Government's structural reform program are contained in our
"Policy and Structural Reform Program: Inception Report" and "Statement of Policies by
Solomon Islands Alliance for Change." The aim of the reforms is to lay the foundations
for an economy in which sustained growth is led by a competitively oriented private
sector operating in a market environment, supported and facilitated by a small, efficient
and effective public sector.
The main elements of the reform program are:
*  restoration and maintenance of a sound macroeconomic environment by (a)
significantly reducing the fiscal deficits and the Government's need for domestic
financing; (b) restoring confidence in the domestic market for government securities
as well as the capacity of CBSI to conduct monetary policy effectively, and (c)
reforming the financial sector to improve the system's competitiveness and increase
the efficiency of financial intermediation.  These improvements in fiscal and
monetary policies will underpin relative stability of market determined domestic
prices, interest rates and the exchange rate;
*  implementation of a series of structural reforms in the public sector to reduce its role
in the economy while increasing that of the private sector; this will entail reforrn of
the structure of the Government, the public service and the wider public sector;
*  a comprehensive review of the tax regime, with a view to broadening the tax base and
reducing tax rates as appropriate while safeguarding an adequate level of tax revenue;
reform of budgeting and public expenditure management and control procedures to
enhance the efficiency, transparency and accountability of the use of public resources;
*  return to a medium-term horizon for strategic economic and investment planning,
initially with the preparation of a public sector investment program (PSIP) for the
period 1999-2001; development of sector priorities and strategies, to form the basis



33
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 16
for future PSIPs; and improvements in the preparation and implementation of projects
for the PSIP to ensure that public investments underpin government priorities and
strategies, and that projects are well prepared and yield high social and/or economic
returns;
*  improving the quantity as well as the quality of service provision in core government
areas (i.e. in primary education, preventive health, agricultural support services and
infrastructure to support private sector led growth, regulatory and security functions)
by restructuring public expenditure to focus increasingly on government provision of
services in these basic areas;
* creating the basis for sustainable and equitable development of renewable natural
resources, including through an effective and sustainable forestry policy;
* ensuring a more equitable allocation of public funds between the rural and urban areas
and across provinces, by a significant shift in delivery of basic services to rural
communities, and by improving these services to the poorer provinces; and
*  financial sector reform to improve the soundness and safety of the financial system,
while making it more competitive and market oriented and improving its capacity to
provide financial services, particularly in regions outside of Honiara.
In the following I have briefly outlined the key elements of the Governrnent's strategy in
each of these areas and the policies to be pursued to achieve the program objectives in the
coming months.
Achieving and Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability
The Govermient's strategy  to  achieve  and  maintain  macroeconomic  stability
encompasses a comprehensive program of fiscal, monetary and real sector policies. The
ultimate aim is to promote an economy in which the private sector is the engine of
economic growth, supported by a small, efficient and highly motivated public sector
focused on providing quality services in the core areas suitable for government activity.
The goal requires a series of far-reaching structural changes throughout the public sector
as well as in the financial system.  However, planning and implementation of the
structural reforms will take some time, while fiscal restraint is necessary for stabilization
purposes with the budget for 1999. Accordingly, adherence to the budget for 1999 relies
on a combination of structural improvements and short-term measures to constrain
expenditures and raise revenues.
The primary focus of the Government's strategy from 1998 has been to restore
confidence in its economic policies and enable the CBSI to again conduct effective
monetary policy, both by maintaining tight fiscal policy and by regularizing the
Government's debt service position with its domestic and external creditors. Progress in
this area in 1998 included a small overall surplus on the Government accounts, with the
brunt of the adjustment concentrated in current expenditure, while the Government



34
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 16
remained current in its debt service obligations for the year and significantly reduced its
arrears.
In early 1999 further significant progress includes first the decision to maintain a
continued tight overall fiscal policy stance for the year - including near fiscal balance, no
provision for financing from the domestic financial system, and a further significant
reduction in arrears - and second an agreement with major holders of treasury bills to
restructure Government's domestic debt and reactivate the market for treasury bills. The
debt restructuring agreement smoothed out the debt service payments for the
Government, raised the returns to the commercial banks, enabling them to reduce their
spreads, and has restored the ability of the CBSI to conduct effective monetary policy.
Furthernore, significant liberalization of the financial system will result from the
decision to use treasury bill auctions as the main instrument for managing the liquidity of
the banking system and redefine the commercial banks' minimum liquid asset ratio. The
new definition excludes treasury bills (and bonds) whereas the previous definition
included treasury bills.
The Government recognizes that its fiscal targets for 1999 are very ambitious. To arrest
and reverse the deterioration in revenue the Government revoked all discretionary
remissions from customs duties in November 1997 and strengthened the coverage and
operating procedures of the Customs Division. In the logging sector, it was decided to
reactivate the Forest Management Unit with external technical assistance. Even with
efforts to improve revenue collection, the fiscal program for 1999 anticipates no real
growth in revenue, and as a consequence budget expenditure will continue to remain very
constrained.
The fiscal program for 1999 maintains overall and recurrent expenditure at about their
reduced real levels of 1998, while the Government's contribution to the development
budget will be limited to SBD30 million. The structural reforms, discussed in more
detail below, will not have their full impact on the composition of current expenditure
until the budget for 2000. For 1999, the wage freeze for government employees is
continued and the wage bill is kept below its nominal 1998 level, while interest
expenditure will increase, reflecting the restructuring of government debt and the move to
market auctioning of government treasury bills. Other recurrent expenditure has been
programmed below their already compressed 1998 levels, measured in real terms. Fiscal
discipline will be strictly maintained in 1999 and supplementary budgets will be kept to a
minimum.
The tight fiscal policies will be complemented by a more market oriented monetary
policy, which will safeguard the external position and the domestic price level, while
providing adequate credit to support the private sector. The reduction in the MLAR and
the CBSI's auctioning of treasury bills for monetary liquidity management is expected to
raise interest rates for depositors, while the Government's resumption of debt service
payments should help reduce the wide spread between banks' deposit and lending rates.
These policies will result in increased financial savings and an improvement in credit



35
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 16
availability to the private sector, which is needed to underpin its importance in the
Government's growth strategy.
Fiscal Restructuring and Improved Service Delivery
The Government recognizes that achievement of a path of sustained higher economic
growth for the Solomon Islands will require, in addition to improved overall fiscal
performance, major shifts in policy orientation to enable the private sector to become the
engine of economic growth. In particular, the planned reforms of public finance, the
public service and the wider public sector aim at creating an enabling and facilitating
environment for a competitive private sector. At the same time the public sector will
focus on core areas, in which public service delivery will be more efficient, effective and
responsive to the public.  These reforms will serve to both contain government
expenditure and change the composition significantly.
Significant improvement in fiscal performance however, will require strengthening of
budget preparation, implementation, expenditure control and monitoring. First, unless
the budget is realistic, we cannot expect to be successful in enforcing compliance.
Second, with regard to implementation, the Government has introduced a relatively
simple system of monitoring expenditure commitments and payments on a monthly basis,
based on the Budget Unit's screening of requisitions. This system will be replaced by
one based on the centralized computerized accounting system, once the office of the
Accountant General has been strengthened and the computerized system has been made
fully operational.  A system of performance assessments has been established as
indicators of managerial performance, and Ministerial Accounting Officers will be held
responsible for their performance under the budget.
In recent years, the preponderance of the wage bill has preempted funds for operations
and maintenance of the Government's existing assets as well as for investment. Over the
years, the Governnent has gradually expanded to include activities, many of which might
be better undertaken by the private sector. Government employment and the government
wage bill has also increased rapidly, but the scarcity of skills needed to undertake the
wide range of activities, the rigidities of governrment bureaucracy, and the lack of
incentives within the system to improve perforrfiance in service provision has resulted in
the Governrnent's poor perfornance. In 1997, the wage bill accounted for over 40
percent of current expenditure and allocations for maintenance and new investment have
been far below minimum requirements for years.
The budget for 1999 begins to correct these problems both by reducing the importance of
the overall wage bill in expenditure and by beginning to redirect expenditure to core
functions of government. The budget includes an overall 15 percent reduction in real
terms in the payroll. Part of this reduction will result from the restructuring of the
Government to focus on core functions and enable it to improve service delivery in these
areas. The remaining part will come from a reduction in allowances.



36
The restructuring of the Government began in early 1998 with a revie of thle mlniStResZ
functions to identify those which should continue to be performed by the Goveent;
those which should be corporatized/privatized, and those which could be stopped
altogether. Ministries' establishments have now been revised downwards to0 match their
reduced functions, and ministries are being restructured to enable them to better perform
their revised functions.  At the same time, rationalization of administrative and
accounting support services has resulted in a reduction in posts.  Tne number of
employees has been reduced accordingly through redundancy. However, the full impact
of the public service reform will not be felt until 2000, because of one-time redundancy
payments.
Allocations for operation and maintenance have been increasingly squeezed in the 1 990s.
The Governnent is committed to increasing allocations for non-wage current
expenditure, and in particular to provide more adequate funding of operations and
maintenance from 1999 onwards to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the public
service.
The increase in employment and the wage bill has not only preempted non-wage
recurrent expenditure, but also government funding for investment, with the result that
the Government's contribution to the development budget has been steadily declining.
The result has been an overall sharp decline in public investment, with most of the
development budget funded by extemal donors. Furthermore, a breakdown in planning,
prioritization, and coordination has impacted adversely on public investments.
By 1998 the development budget consisted of a collection of projects, most of which had
not been properly prepared, screened and/or checked for consistency with national and
sectoral priorities or whether their future recurrent cost could be funded. Projects
originally approved for the budget were not implemented, while other projects were
added in the course of the year. Furthermore, coordination of donor funding was very
weak. As a result, many projects were included in the development program, mainly
because they were externally funded, rather than because they had been assessed as
priority and quality projects.  There was also little central physical and financial
monitoring of project implementation.
The Govemment has significantly strengthened the role and technical capacity of the
Department of National Planning and Development (DNPD), in part by the addition of
long term external technical assistance. DNPD was responsible for the National Strategic
Development Plan, which was completed by July 1998. This plan was the basis for a
three-year public sector investment program (PSIP) for 1999-2001. Given the strategy
already enunciated by the Govemment, the PSIP for 1999-2001 concentrates on public
and rural health services, primary education, agricultural extension work and economic
infrastructure in support of private sector growth. The development budget for 1999
consists of projects included in the PSIP for 1999-2001. The DNPD will work to
improve donor coordination as well as project quality, and enforce criteria for selection to
the PSIP, including project consistency with national priorities and project quality.



37
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 16
The Government will design a Medium-Tern Budget Framework (MTBF) for a 3-year
period, which is consistent with the terms of the Policy and Structural Reform Program.
The MTBF will integrate current and capital expenditure, and the budgetary allocations
for key sectors of the economy - namely health, education and infrastructure - will be
protected.  DNPD has established a preliminary system  of physical and financial
monitoring of the implementation of investment projects, based on reports from line
ministries and donors, regardless of sources of funding. Because of the large amount of
external project funding in kind, this system will be adjusted in the light of experience in
1998.
The recurrent component of the budget for 1998 reflected an increase in allocations to the
sectors which contain govermnent core areas, as these sectors were protected from the
nominal cuts in the wage bill and the nonwage recurrent expenditure. However, a more
significant shift to the core activities within the sectors is seen in the budget for 1999, as a
result of the restructuring and rightsizing of the Governrment.
In health, the priority for use of public funds should be in ensuring access to essential
public health and basic health services especially in rural villages and urban settlements.
Hitherto, a large portion of government health resources has been spent on hospital-based
curative services.  The Government has already identified priority program  areas
emphasizing primary health care and preventive and promotive services, which will form
the basis of a medium-term development strategy for the health sector.
In education, the priority for governnent resource use will be improving the quality and
effectiveness of basic education. In order to achieve this objective within the current
fiscal constraints, the rationalization of central government recurrent financing of primary
and secondary education is essential.
The recent unplanned expansion of Community High Schools (CHS) has raised the
number of high schools from 6 in 1994 to 72 in 1998. This has required a significant
increase in both teachers and materials and, thus, in recurrent government expenditures
for education. The use of primary school teachers in these schools has led to further
deterioration in the already low average level of qualifications of teachers in the schools,
while not providing a quality secondary education.
The Government's policy aims to reverse the deterioration in the quality and
effectiveness of basic education.  Further expansion of the CHS will be strictly
controlled, and improvements in the quality of basic education achieved through the
adoption of a unit-cost formula for the allocation of public funds in the budget for 2000.
This, together with the finalization of an education sector plan in 1999, would establish
the basis for the more rational allocation of public expenditures in line with the future
priorities for the education sector.
In agriculture the Governrment is committed to expanding support through extension
services, fostering scientific research and development of new production technologies as
well as improved seed varieties, and disseminating the same widely through the extension



38
ANNEX I
Page 9 of 16
network. To improve this work, the Farmer Support Programme is continuing to expand
in 1999. The Livestock Development Authority is now being liquidated.
Another core area of government activity is provision and maintenance of economic
infrastructure, including roads, both in Honiara and in the provinces. In the past, much
of the infrastructure has been supplied by and rehabilitated by foreign donors, when lack
of maintenance made such rehabilitation necessary. The budget for 1999 includes an
increase in non-wage current expenditure of the Ministry of Transport, Works,
Communication and Aviation (MTWCA).
The Government is convinced that rural development will benefit significantly by
increased access to microfinancing. For this purpose the budget for 1999 contains a
provision of SBD15 million for the Rural Community Development Fund (RCDF). To
alleviate concerns about possible misallocation, the RCDF, in contrast to its predecessor
the Constituency Development Fund (CDF), incorporates legal procedures for project
submission, selection and reporting as well as for release of funds.
Financial Sector Reform
Once confidence has been restored in fiscal and financial policies, the Government will
proceed with further reform of the financial sector to improve its ability to provide
efficient financial support to the process of private sector led growth, in Honiara as well
as in the rural areas.  To ensure continued soundness of the financial system,
liberalization and expansion will be accompanied by improvements in central supervision
and regulation. To support broad-based private sector growth, access to the financial
system must be greatly expanded, and its efficiency in mobilizing and intermediating
savings, pooling of risks and facilitating investments must be improved.
Initial improvement in financial intermediation will result from a successful stabilization
effort. Normalization of the Government's debt servicing and the reactivation of the
treasury bill market will foster improved competition among financial intermediaries.
This will result in a reduced spread between deposit and lending rates. An increased flow
of savings into the financial system will be encouraged by the CBSI's interest rate policy.
Furthermore, monetary policy will gradually move to primary reliance on indirect
instruments. In this connection, the reintroduction of open market operations as a
monetary policy instrument, a switch to this as the main instrument of monetary policy,
and the reduction and redefinition of the MLAR of commercial banks will result in
improved efficiency of the banks while eliminating the captive market for government
securities, thereby forcing the rate on government securities closer to the market rate.
To further enhance competition in the financial system and expand access to financial
intermediation, the Government has decided to strengthen the Development Bank so that
it can play a more significant role in mobilizing capital for small to medium enterprises,
particularly in regions outside of Honiara. The CBSI has taken steps for the disposal of
its shares in the Development Bank and terms of reference have been formulated for an
independent extemal audit of the Development Bank's loan portfolio, risk management



39
ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 16
systems and corporate govemance framework. This review will be undertaken before
end-1999 together with any needed drafting of legislative amendments and corrective
measures.
The Government wishes to undertake a review of the National Provident Fund (NPF) as
part of its structural adjustment program to: analyze the current status of the NPF;
identify any deficiencies in the organization, its enabling legislation and its finances; and
propose recommendations for strengthening its financial and management condition.
This review will also cover investment guidelines and regulatory and supervision
arrangements. Terms of reference for the review have been agreed with IDA. The
Government is also considering plans to ensure better supervision of the insurance
industry.
The Government is committed to maintaining a sound financial system. The Financial
Institutions Act (1998), will facilitate an improved regulatory framework. The Act will
be amended by the end of 1999 to empower CBSI to take action against pyramid
financial schemes. CBSI will also continue its campaign against such schemes. The Act
allows the governument-owned financial institutions to be brought under the auspices of
the CBSI. The CBSI has agreed to bring the NPF and the Development Bank under its
prudential supervision and to strengthen its supervision of the fast growing credit union
industry, which fulfills an important role in delivering financial services to isolated
communities as well as to urban groups. The CBSI's Banking Supervision and Extension
Department will be upgraded accordingly.
Private Sector Promotion and Supply Response
The guiding principle in the Government's economic reform policy is the redirection and
redeployment of resources from the public sector to the private sector. The Government
recognizes that success of its strategy to rely on the private sector as the engine of
economic growth will depend importantly on re-establishment of confidence in
government policies as well as development of a more efficient and competitive financial
system, with the capability of meeting the emerging diverse demands for services across
the regions, as well as in Honiara. Government policies in these areas have been outlined
above. However, the Government is aware that further improvement in the climate for
domestic and foreign investment as well as supportive infrastructure are essential to
stimulate private sector development. This will help achieve sustainable economic
growth and more rapid employment creation for a growing labor force.
The Government has already taken some initiatives to improve the investment climate by
further streamlining the private investment approval process so that such process does not
exceed four weeks. There is also an initiative underway to reorganize the functions of the
Investment Board towards investment promotion, for which technical assistance is being
sought.
The deterioration in economic infrastructure and its present poor state constitutes another
major impediment to private sector development. With regard to the electricity supply,



40
ANNEX I
PagellIofl16
the Government has been addressing the electric power supply crisis in Honiara
temporarily by obtaining new generating equipment for Solomon Islands Electricity
Authority (SIEA). However, existing capacity is still stretched and insufficient to meet
current demands, let alone investment proposals approved by the Investment Board and
demands for new  residential connections.   The Government is aware that a
comprehensive review of electricity generation and distribution must be undertaken to
ensure more efficient and effective service delivery in the future.  Investments in
infrastructure have been assigned high priority in the PSIP for 1999-2001 where they
constitute almost 40 percent of the total programmed investment. Allocations for
operation and maintenance of roads have been increased significantly in the budget for
1999.
The Government has also begun to explore possibilities of facilitating investor access to
land. In the short term, the Government has identified tracts of under-utilized
government land and reserved such land for purposes of leasing out to private investors.
The Government is also considering measures to facilitate sub-leasing customary land in
specified locations to private investors.
Sustainable Development
The Government is committed to the principles that exploitation of renewable resources
must be kept within levels which ensure sustainability in the medium and longer term.
Exploitation needs to be managed in a way which minimizes the negative environmental
impact and benefits the development of Solomon Islands. Adherence to these principles
will require major policy changes in the forestry sector, a key sector with the potential to
contribute significantly to sustained growth.
For nearly a decade, rapidly escalating export logging has surpassed sustainable levels.
Resource rents have accrued disproportionately to the industry, to the detriment of
landowners and the Government. Governance of the resource has been very poor,
characterized by minimal monitoring, forest degradation through poor management
practices, excessive and unnecessary environmental impacts, considerable excess license
capacity, undervaluation of the forest resource, and inadequate national capture of
resource rental. The collapse of the log export market, following the East Asian crisis,
has had an immediate and severe financial im'pact on the economy of the Solomon
Islands. In the medium tern, continuing to harvest at the rates of recent years will lead to
rapid depletion of the resource, resulting in financial disruption and ecological distress.
The Government sees the present downturn in logging activity as an opportunity to
reform the policy environment and practices in the forestry sector in order to ensure that
future activity in the sector conform with the principles above. Accordingly, the
Government has already taken a number of initiatives.
The Forestry Bill, to be tabled in Parliament, will lay the policy basis for sustainable
forest management, ensure resource protection and conservation, equity of development
benefits, adjustments to log licensing policies and procedures, and participation by all



41
ANNEX I
Page 12 of 16
stakeholders.  The Bill, once enacted, will be operationalized through subsequent
development of forestry regulations and guidelines. All forestry projects will be subject
to the logging code of practice and all gazetted forestry and environmental legislation.
Performance bonds will be required for all new timber operations.
To reduce environmental damage from timber harvesting, the budget for 1999 also
includes allocations for training and further development by the Forestry Division of the
Code of Practice for Timber Harvesting, which was adopted in June 1997. New logging
licenses will be issued and existing licenses will be renewed in strict compliance with
existing regulations until the current Forestry Division's review of all logging licenses is
completed. The Government will determine annual allowable cut guidelines and design
the process to adjust annual logging license output to the sustainable yield level.
Alternative environment friendly development options will also be encouraged to
minimize the depletion of the forest.
To strengthen monitoring of the forest industry, the Government has reinstated the Forest
Management Unit in the Forestry Division with the budget for 1999, strengthened the
unit by providing additional staff resources and obtained external technical assistance to
reinforce and implement existing systems of monitoring of exports, field operations and
prices in order to maximize resource rents from natural forest management while
minimizing environmental darnage. In addition, a comprehensive review of forestry
sector taxation has been undertaken in 1999 with a view to maximizing national resource
rent capture, emphasizing progressive taxation structures and rationalizing incentives for
the industry.
Conclusion
The present Government has already begun to make far-reaching changes to improve the
social and economic conditions and performance in the country. Overall, the reform
process sets up a prospect of a more equitable and prosperous future. The Government
and the people of the Solomon Islands are committed to reform. However, popular
support for the reform is contingent on the Government demonstrating tangible results
within a reasonable timeframe.  Considering the magnitude of the reforms - and
adjustments needed, and to strengthen the credibility of its own plans and efforts, the
Government would like to count on the technical and financial assistance of the
International Development Association and looks forward to a fruitful development
partnership.
YoX;2/C2 ely,
/pa Kimata
Minister of Finance



SOLOMON ISLANDS
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Objectives/         Actions Taken Before end 1998                 Actions Taken Before Board Presentation                                 Actions Before Second Tranche Release
Strategies                                                      I                                                                         (About January 2000)
Omnibus Condition: Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework, consistent with the objectives of the Program, determined on the basis of indicators agreed to by the Borrower and the Association
A. iMacroeconomi Stabiiiitiion
Objective:
'ITo reslore and    D.valued St dollar by 21) percent in l)ecember    During January to April 1999 there should be no nei borrowing by    The Government salaries and wage Wil/for FY1999 has
mainitaini a souid  19')97 and a litrtlter 6 percenit in 199l'   Governmentfrom the donmsticfinancial syster. Thefiscal def cit should be   not exceeded SOD IS0 million.
mactroeetoltnic     Reversal ot' tightcned limits on alutllatic fireignt  funded by concessionalfinance only. Privatization proceeds to be directed to
cnvironimilenit by  exchalige transactiotis.                     repering arrears or reducing debt.                                       The cost or'retrenchment orpublic servants not to exceed
sharply lowering thc  Achiesed budget halance in 199X (excliding                                                                          SBDIO million.
liscal delicit and  arrears reductioul and utiliteda  substantial  Domestei debt reseleduliig prograna establisihed with the commercial banks
adjusting relative  portion  l ihc AIM loan 1 Ifrunds Ifir arrears  andtidleNational Provident Fund(NPF). Tbeprogramshouldlnvolvea       No net borrowing by Governnwntfrom the domestic
prices to cnhanice    redtctionl                                 conversion of at least 50 per cent of the treasury bills outstanding into longer- flnancial system in FY1999 (actual) and the FY2000
the Solomon         Domlestic debt rescheduiling program initiated in  termi bonds. Theefirst tranche of tie Central Bank advance to tile Government  Budget. PrivatizatiOn proceeds in FYt999 usedfor repaying
Islands'           January 1)991) and domestic dIebt service paymlent  should be securitized by end Atlay 1999. Maintenance of debt service  arrears, andfoillowing the clearance ofpublic arrears, to
intemationtal      commntitments litIll lled it 1998'. National  paymellts Otn interest arrears asformulated in January 1998. Furnishing to   further reduce debt, orfinance the public sector Investn nt
eottipetitivettess.  'rovident Funtd arrears sccuritizcd through issuc   the Association nontdil reportsfor January tilrough April 1999 showing  program                                                      1
oflonger-tenn bottds.                        domestic dlebt service p.vnteents.                                           i  m
Monthly Monetary Motitorintg (.'ittittittee.                                                                          O tuorish monthly report tr the pGriod May through
fonied and responsible tunr ecottotnic. monietary                                                                     October 1999 to show that Covemment is meeting al
a.d debt issues.                                                                                                      domestic debt service commitments under the new plan
and meeting all external debt service commitments
(excluding those in dispute or under discussion).
it. Puhlic Finances
Objective:
'.t inprove thlc   Establislumcnt ol'a threc )car Meditm'Iun rlt  FYI999 Budgetexapenditure outturns are within Budget appropriations on o    Increase budgetary allocationsfor operations and
lisca,l Valtee as  D)evelopment Strategy anid Pluiblic Sector    pro-rata basis, and Poase I of the public service restructuring involving 430    maintenance in Head 21 1 (Transport, Works,
sell ;as service    laivestmiettt l'rogram,                      retrenchments is completed. Improvement in custons duty collections by 10   Cotnmunication, andAviation) by 10per cent in nominal
deliver) by                                                      per cenit above the FY1999 Budgetestimate on a pro rata basis            terms in the FY2000 Recurrent Budget, relative to thle
couincntratitig    lteduction itt payroll cltrges achieved it 199)8   (XBD48.niiilo, br entd,lprit 1999). Publie sector enpltorer and employee  FY1999 RecurrentBudget.
goertiltltnt                                                     contribution commitnients to the NPF met aus of end April 1999. Domestic
c\penditure it core   Fstablishmaent o'4'l'asktiirecs Ihr li) public  interest cost arrears repatymentschedule met. No net increase in arrears after Thie Government has: (a) implemented the 1999 phase of
areas,. iirct ing  liMance and rehlabilitatioun: Iii) public servicc  allowibgfJorrprtt atizationi proceedsJor reducing such arrears.     tble action plan to rebuild the government accounting
doutinr flluids alst t,o  relonmt (iiiD i editattt-termtt developmuent strategy:                                                         framework, reconciliations between program ministry
IlicsC core are;m  a;ad (iv) privalte sector decvlopttnt.        I ction plan conanencedJbr the rebuildinig ofa comprehensive government    spending records and Treasury payment records
and elthancineg thc                                              accounting srstem so that the Deparinient of Finance can establishfirm data  achieved; and (b) prepared action plans acceptable to
elticieticy of'     Secuired exterttal tccltitical assistatcte it begin  oo actuul evpenditure by budget head together with basic controls to prevent   the Associatlieafor audits of government accounts by the
c%petditure by     public service reflrin. iitctitditmg the downsizing   unauthiorized useoffunds. This should inctudeoplantore-introduce  Auditor General's Office and for review ofsuch audits
ittproving thle    ol' the service and redtittdasicy pack.ige atnd  reconciliatioins between prograna nilinistry spenditag records and Treasury  by the Public Accounts Committee.
accounting uid     cuistoius capacity building. Al)ll l)S$25 muillioti  paymentrecords.                                                                                                            so
Itudget firanitesourk   loatt conlirtued seitb U.S$I 5 milliott lirst trtnclte
attul the econoUlioC  due tlar release iu latc 1)991
tttt1posifitiutt ,,1'                                            NOTI'E: ONI.V 'IE (CONI)TIIONS IN 1101.1) I'lAl.ICS IN Al.l. I'AGES    NO'FE: ONLI 'I'IIE CONDII'IONS IN BOLD                     U3
Cspeuditurc.        Mct doitcstic intierest debt service conuttitttenits   ARE  '1B111  INI)IN(; CONI)ITIONS FORT RANCIIE REILEASE.       l'ALICS IN ALL PACES ARE TIIE BINDING 
establisted in thc JanuarN 1999 plant.                                                                              CONDITIONS FOR TRANCIIE RELEASE.



SOLOMON ISLANDS
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Objectives/          Actions Taken Before end 1998                   Actions Taken Before Board Presentation                                   Actions Before Second Tranche Release
Strategies         I                                              I                                                                           I (About January 2000)
Declivered    1')999 budget showing higlher    Iiitiated actions fIr a review of fisheries revenues.
allocationis to education anid hcalth , development
expendittires and debt service, and with no
recourse tir inmancing flrot titc domestic hattkinig
C. Financial Sector Reforn_
Objective:
'To rcstorc financial  IBokolo hill yields increased to 5-l percetu, ant  Public annou,,cenaent oJ:(i) Treasury bill oauctions allowing the market to set  'I'rcasury bill auctions regularly conducted and monctary
sector conlidence.    opeon tup s)stem introduced and hill maturities  theprice, and treasury bill rediscountfacility introduced witi a penalty  policy operational.
cnsure a sound and   increased to 12 months. Cenlral Itanl; call nIurgin; and (ii) phasing out of Bokolo bills. Minimum liquid assets ratio
salc linancial       accotitmn rate iitcrcased to) 3 percent.       reduced in line wit/t the debt restructuring. Monthlly Monetary Monitoring  Complete external review of the Developnent Bank and
system, and enhanc                                                  Mteetings he/il.                                                           thie National Provident Fund and adopt action plans for
the role ofl'itte sector  Vitsn6ial lIstitutions Pill 0 I9911) cnalctcd.                                                                       the implementation of the recommendations of the
in supponing                                                         Ministerial directive issued by April 1999 under the Financial Institutions Act  reviews.
sustained economic  (Central Iltaik press releases on risks ofpyranid   (199)N to the Central 13ank to apply prudential standards to thc Development
growth. Restoum      fiinacial scitemnes.                           l3ank, and Central H3anik to cstablish a phased compliance plan fbr the    Quarterly liquidity forecasts of the banking system
market driven                                                      D)evelopmeat 13ank.                                                         produced by the Central Bank.
iiterest rates.
'I'o avoid coitllict as a shareholder and supervisor, thc Central flank has taken
steps fIr thc disposal ol' its shares in the Development flank. 'I'crms of
rcfl.rnce acceptable to the Association have been issued for an external review  Specific actions put in place to deal with any possible re-
ol' thc loan portiblio, risk maniagemilenit systems and corporate governancc  emergence or pyramid financial schemes through the
framewtork of the l)evelopment flank.                                      impleimcntation of the Financial Institutions Act, or
amnendmncits to the Act or new legislation, as necessary.
Ministcrial directive issued tinder the Financial histitutions Act (1998) to bring
the Nl'l: under the supervision ofl'e Central H3ank. Central 1ank approval for
alt extenmal portfilio and actuarial review ol'the Nl' obtained with terms ol
rclcrcncc acceptablc it thc Association.
Central ltansk agreensent to upgrAde and restructure the ttanking Supervision
and Extension tJllit to provide supervision for Nill and Developmcnt 13ank, to
establishi an on-site inspection capability for the non-bank financial institutions
particularly itc larger credit unions, and to improve oll:site analysis and
surveillance systems.



SOLOMON ISLANDS
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Objectives/          Actions Taken Before end 1998                  | Actions Taken Before Board Presentation                                     Actions Before Second Tranche Release
Strategies         j                                                                                                                              (About January 2000)
1)   S s m n a alSor s   M n ge e t                                   __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __   _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _  __ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _
IPromoste            intioduced a ('ode t f l ractice fir lOgging.   Ensure that tbae issue of new timber harvestinig licenses and renewal of     Ensure: (a) the implementation of the current Forest
economically and                                                     existinig licenses is made in strict compliance wit/ existing regulations until:   Division's review of all existing logging licenses and their
environmcntally      Ithtroductiwini in late 1'997 otanore stringenit  (a) the current Forest Division's review of all existing lagging licenses and  allowable cut; (b) the establishnsent ofa process to revoke
sustainable growtl    scrutliny of- Ic higgilng licenses. %%hile Ceisting    rb,eir allowable cut is complete; (b) a process to reveole those in vialation of    those in violation of license conditions; and (c) initiate a
in the Solonmon       ogging licenses tantd technoIog) agreemciets are   licenise conaditions is established; and (c) a consultative process of reducing  consultative process of reducing the annual allowable cut
Islands by           revi ewcd.                                      the annual allowable cut ta a sustainable level is initiated.                to a sustainable level.
cnhancisug the
nsallagealent o(' its
Ibarest resources.
Ait outlinii It fiee.t legislation prepared and  IPresent to Cabiiet the nwcw drall Forest Btill which fully incorporates and  Establish a government policy regarding community
presented to ( ahinct. tCabinet has already     addresses sustainable forest management, promotes resource protection and    forestry, that provides support and coordination with
approsed thc outline.                           conservation, provides lIar equity of development benetits through improved in- socially and economically viable eeo-forestry and other
country resource rcnt capture, and irtakes adjustmcnts to log licensing policies small-scale sawmilling operations.
and procedures.                                                             ____ple__he_____ew_of_te_tagaton_and_evenue_egime_i
Remove all remissions associated witla the tiniahr industry and discontinue  Complete the review of the taxation and revenue regime in
graninig of remissions.                                                     the forestry industry. and formnulate an action plan.
I lave beguat to iaaapleiiaieit iltaproved forcst  luave in place: f(i exteraalJfundiaigfor tIe Forest Management Unit, training   (a) Establish the Forest Management Unit under the
itadustry tamonitorisig by rcactivatitig thc l:orest    in the application of t/e Logging Code of Practice, and improvement of log  Forestry Division of the Department of Forestry,
Mattagenimenit 1roject.                         export nonitoring capabilities; and(ii) the necessary counterpart funding in   Environment and Conservation with competent staff In
the budget,                                                                  adequate numnbers; (b) allocoefmftundsfr the Forest
Management Unit in the FY20hO Recutrrnt Budget not
less than the amount allocated in the FY1999 Recurrent
Budget; and (c) submit to Parliament a Forest Bill
acceptable to the Assoaaiion.
E. lrivate Sector D)evelolapseiu_
Obtljesliwc:
tl otfioadlatc private  tIhc 1reuticiyc! of Ihlitdig in estiaiaet approval    IThc average iietaC l;ar l;areign investaineit approvals for projects not located in  Coa,verttlae Investment Board ilato aN investnent
sector des clipaaacit   aaectiaigs Iass becia increased i ts)a per nantlah.    titer provinces dtves ntot cxceed lour weeks by the lnvestnaciat Board during  promotion authority including adoption af required
o as tio lhelpaulliaevc                                              Jaanuary ati April 1999 anid tlat registratiota by the ltegistrar General does ntot    legislation and procedures within theDepeetment of
sustaintable         Iitialtives laave lectn takat to reorgaali/ th.e  exceed titur weeks . a average duritig the same period.                    Coerce Industry Employment and Tourism for
ecooaaaic gravtla    lunctitaits oft e loreign lvesatmeat t loard in                                                                              sinaplifted investeni approvals subject to enpliance
and i latire rapid   Itavara pmmrotaoting investimaeat.              Ide, tair tracts of underutilized goaaeraanmenat luatdfor Ithe purpose of leasing to   with given criteria,
emaapluayaatcait                                                     private inavestors.
creationa liar tle   IPrivate Sector l ask Force establi%hed ata                                                                                  I stablish a suitable policy framework for the mining
grawinig labor lirce.  rcpal rt an reiornia ititi;atives sulattitted it)                                                                         industry to ensure accountability in the allocation of
lataprowe tlhe       Gavenrutaent.                                                                                                                concessions to mining companies, limit investor
itavestnaieat climate                                                                                                                             uncertainty and, therefore, risk premiums, and to avoid a   i.A
liar local aaid liareigat                                                                                                                         piece-mneal approach.                                       O
itlvestlllct t.    .                                          _
ox



SOLOMON ISLANDS
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Objectives/          Actions Taken Before end 1998                     Actions Taken Before Board Presentation                                       Actions Before Second Tranche Release
Strategies                                                                                                                                           (About January 2000)
F. SocialSector-l orcrtv  mlle iatiun
Objective:
I lealih--lo ensure    A crrriprehernsisc ro ic  ot1 tlr hcalth services.    Compilete an initial draft at the structure ol' tle reorganized Ministry or I lcalth   Document and approve the new organizational structure of
equitahle, eflicient                                                   and Medical Services (MIIMS) consistent with the public service refomi        the MIIMS.
and quality basic    D)vclopnient rifi a Nationtal I leilti D) eclopment   program, and present it fIr review by the Association.
healthi services.    Ilani 1997-2001.                                                                                                                Increase in noninal ternms the FY2000 Recurrent Budget
Pay in full to all proviices the approved allocation for January to April 1999  allocationfor preventive health services* by 10percent
tCase iccidence rites for I ll and lcprosy reduIcCd  in tbe F  Y1999 budgetfor proviicial health services, wages, and malaria  relative to the FY1999 Recurrent Budget.
it) less Ilani I per 1t),())t population.        control.
rhe allocation for the National Referral Ilospital does not
Access to heallti service uipro%ed %%ith 7l0%/ of                                                                              exceed 40 percent of the allocation for health in the
rural communifties  itlhin oinIe hour walking                                                                                  FY2000 budget.
distance o0'a health fiicilito
'Consists of (i) health education; (ii) malaria control;
Iicidenice ot rialaria redticed to 16() per 100)0) in                                                                          (iii) provincial health services; and (iv) environmental
1991 compared to over 40(0 per I ()t)) in 19 92.                                                                               health.
l:ducartioll-1To
enisure improved     A brief ouline of proposals and priorities ol the   Complete ant itnitial draft of an education sector plan that clearly indicates the  The allocation offundsfor education in the FY2000
educatioit quality,    D)epaortmentt of ducationi aitd I ltirrait lResource    needs, priorities, strategies and long term investment programs (over the next    recurrent budgetfor the respective schools should be
etivieritey, access  Developmtent lbr the educationt sector are        10 years). 'Ihe sector plan slhould in parnieular focus on curriculum reform,  based on a unit-costfornula acceptable to.the
and utilizatiol of   specilied in the StatemeCirt of Policies, 1997-2001. teacher traininig. and develoipmieint oflIearning niaterials.              Association.
services.
Ile iiced fIr rationalizing tile liiidiig flows fi-r  Prepare a proposalfor a unit-costformula, including methodologiesfor
tIhe education sector lias heet agreed anid a   updatinig and reviewing it on a systematic basis, for the allocatio, of public
consuiltant identifiied Ilor thie proposed I luitaicinbg    finns for prinaort' and secon lary education. This should take into arcount
study.                                           the current policies and ranige of iuality standards in the schools.
Issue a directive that lurther constructiol 'l 1S vill be strictly conitrolled,
I te rapid unplanned e*parision of Cornt uni) t  Intil atl existing schools haive been provided with adequate recurrent budgets,
I ligh Schools (CI). s, wilhout regaird 16r recuirrent  teachers arid learnring riaterials.
costs and iuiality aspects. is sl, irig d1o 1ii
S,cia,l Services --1Ti                                                Ternisf reerence acceptable to the Association issuedfor a Poverty         IPoverty Assessment initiated.
ciitir that specilic                                                  Assessment, that will help design appropriate social policies andprograms to                                                                       >
linrltiali develoipmenet                                              desil with povertrt alleviation.
policies arid
prorgramit are plitt in
pla ce_                                                                                                                                                                   
0s



46
ANNEX 2
STATISTICAL TABLES



47
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
Table 1. Solomon Islands: Key Macroeconomic Framework, 1994-1999
1994      1995       1996       1997      199S       1999 I/
Est       Est       Proj.
Growth mnd prices (change in percent)
Real GDP                                                      5.2        7.0        3.5      40.5       .7.0        2.5
CPI (period average)                                          13.3       9.6       1 1.      8.1       12.0        7.0
CPI (end-of-period)                                          13.0       10.5        9.6      10.4       10.4
Savings and investment (percent of GDP)
Public savings, excluding gramts 2/                           -2.8      -0.7       -2.0      -3.3        1.7        1.6
Publicinvestmnent3/                                          21.1       15.9       17.2       12.2      14.2       13.9
of which: Grant-financed                                     18.4      11.3       14.8       10.7      12.7       11.7
Public savings-investment balance 4/                         -5.5       -5.3       -4.4      -4.8        0.2       40.6
Private savings-investment balance 5/                         5.9        9.4        7.8      -5.4        5.3        4.1
National savingp-invesunent balance (including grants) 6/     0.4        4.1        3.4      -10.2       5.5        3.5
Central govemment budget (percent of GDP)
Total revenue and grants                                     47.1       39.9       39.2      33.7       37.1       35.S
ofwhich: Grants                                              18.4      11.3       14.8       10.7      12.7       11.7
Total expenditure                                            52.6       45.3       43.6      38.5       37.0       36.4
Overall balance                                              -5.5       -5.3       -4.4       -4.8       0.2       -0.6
Domestic borrowing (net, including arrears)                  6.0        3.4        2.7       4.0       -3.5       -4.7
Foreign borrowing (ntt, including arrears)                   -0.4       1.9        1.8       0.8        3.4        5.3
Stock outstanding of arears (in percent of GDP)                           2.5        6.4       13.8       6.2        0.6
Domestic                                                                 1.7        3.5        8.4       2.8        0.6
Extemal                                                                  0.8        2.9        5.4       3.4        0.0
Money and credit (annual percent change)
Net foreign assets                                          -16.5       -1.0      152.4      41.9       49.1       42.4
Net domestic assets                                          34.6       11.7       -3.6       -6.9     -20.1      -15.9
Total domestic credit                                        24.7        8.5        1.9        3.3      -3.5       -9.6
Private credit                                               22.3       14.1        6.3        8.4      25.3        7.2
Broad moncygrowth                                            24.1        9.9       15.7       6.3        4.S       14.0
Balance of payments (USS million, unless otherwise indicated)
Exports, fob.                                               142.2      168.1      162.4      173.9     140.8      157.8
Imports, ci                                                -142.3    -154.3    -151.2    -209.4    -146.9    -162.1
Current account, including grants                              1.2      13.4       12.0      -37.9      16.4       11.2
(percent ofGDP)                                             0.4        4.1        3.4     -10.2        5.5        3.5
Grants                                                       51.5       33.7       38.6       30.8      38.3       38.6
Nommonetary medium- and long-term capital (net)               -2.2      -8.8      -17.0      44.5       21.0       16.5
of which: Official borrowing                                -13        3.5       -2.0        2.7      15 .0      15.9
Private borrowing                                  -1.3     -13.7       15.5       10.4       2.1       -1.6
Foreign direct investment                          0.5        1.3        0.5       31.4       4.9        2.2
Overall balance                                              -2.4       -4.2        9.5       -6.2      20.9       23.5
Gross offcial reserves (USSmillion)                            16.6       15.1      32.2       31.5      48.6       68.6
In months of imports of goods and services                    0.8        0.8        1.6        1.2       2.7        3.4
External liabilities (USS million. end-of-year stock)
Total external liabilities                                 12.6       165.8      166.9      196.0     145.6    10.2
(percent of GDP)                                            61.8       50.7       46.9      52.6       48.4       56.4
Debt service                                                 21.7       10.7       15.5       10.8      34.7       21.5
Debt-serviceratio                                             11.7       5.2        7.3        4.6      17.9       10.1
(percent of exports of goods and services)
Tenns of trade (percent change)                                 0.3     -1 13        8.6       41.7      -0.7        -1.7
Exchange rate (SIS/USS. end-of-period) 7/                     3.33       3.48       3.62       4.77      4.80       4,82
Real effectise exchangerate(1990-100)                        105.4       103.0     110.1      120.1      112.8
Sources: IMF Staff Reports and Solomon Islands authorities.
I/ IMF Staff projections based on the assumption that recommended adjustment policies are fully implemented.
2/ Defined as the central govemmentes current balance, excluding gramts.
3/ Defined as the central govemmenes development expenditure.
4/ Including only central govennment operations.
5/ Derived as the difference between the national and public avings-investnent balances.
6/ Defined as the external current account balance including grants.
7/ Data for 1999 is a of April 6. 1999.



48
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
Table 2. Solomon Islands: Balance of Payments, 1994-99
(In millons of U.& dolars)
Est.              Proj.
1994       1995        1996       1997        199         1999
Current account balance (excluding grants)            -50.3       -20.3      -26.6       -68.7       -21.9      -27.5
Trade balance                                         -0.1        13.8       11.2      -35.5        -6.1        -4.4
Exports                                            142.2       168.1      162.4       173.9       140.8      157.8
Of which:
Logs                                             81.2        79.1       94.8        79.5       40.7        42.1
Gold                                              0.1         0.2        0.1         0.1        14.6       36.0
Other                                            60.9        88.8       67.6        94.4       85.5        79.7
Imports, c.i.f.                                   -142.3      -154.3     -151.2      -209.4      -146.9     -162.1
Services (net) \                                     -65.3      -48.0       -47.5       42.1       -15.0       -22.4
Receipts                                            43.5       36.5        49.1       60.3        53.0        55.1
Payments                                          -108.8      -84.5       -96.6     -102.4       -68.0       -77.4
Private transfers (net)                               15.1        14.0        9.6        8.9        -0.8        -0.7
Receipts                                           27.9        35.4        29.2       28.9        25.7        26.7
Payments                                           -12.9      -21.4       -19.6      -20.0       -26.4       -27.5
Official transfers                                    51.5       33.7        38.6       30.8        38.3        38.6
Current account balance (including grants)               1.2       13.4        12.0      -37.9        16.4        11.2
Capital account balance                                 2.3        -6.7       -11.0       44.1        27.5        16.5
Capital Transfers                                      2.9         1.5        0.5         0.3        6.9         0.0
Medium- and long-term capital                         -2.2       -8.8       -17.0       44.5        21.0        16.5
Public sector (net)                                  -1.3        3.5        -2.0        2.7        15.0        15.9
Disbursements                                     1.4        7.2         2.6        8.1        19.3        18.7
Amortization                                     -2.7       -3.7        -4.6       -5.3        -4.2        -2.8
Private (net)                                       -1.3       *13.7      -15.5        10.4         1.1       -1.6
Disbursements                                     10.6         4.9        3.2        24.0        22.8       12.7
Amortization                                     -11.9       -18.6      -18.6       -13.7       -21.7      -14.4
Direct and equity investment (net)                   0.5         1.3        0.5        31.4         4.9        2.2
Short-term private capital                             1.6         0.7        5.5        -0.7       -0.4         0.0
Errors and omissions                                    -5.9      -10.9         8.5      -12.3       -23.0       -4.1
Overall balance                                         -2.4       4.2         9.5        -6.2        20.9        23.5
Official reserve (-increase)                           2.4         1.5      -17.1         0.7       -17.1      -20.0
Arrears, net ofrescheduling/relief (+ accumulation)    0.0         2.7        7.6         5.5       -3.8        -3.6
Amortization                                        0.0         2.0        2.8         3.1        -1.1        - 1.0
Interest                                            0.0        0.7         1.2        1.1         0.2        -0.6
Nondebt arrears                                     0.0        0.0         3.6         1.2       -2.9        -1.9
Memorandum items:
Current account balance
Excluding grants, percent of GDP                   -17.0       -6.2        -7.5       -18.4       -7.3        -8.6
Including grants, percent of GDP                     0.4        4.1         3.4      -10.2         5.5         3.5
Overall balance, percentofGDP                         -0.8        -1.3        2.7        -1.7        7.0         7.4
Exchange rate (end-of-period, SIS/USS)                 3.3         3.5        3.6         4.8        4.8         4.8
Exchange rate (period average, SIS/USS)                3.3         3.4        3.6         3.7        4.8         4.8
Gross official reserves (in millions of U.S. dollars)  16.6       15.1       32.2        31.5       48.6        68.6
In months of imports I/                              0.8        0.8         1.6         1.2        2.7         3.4
Stock of external arrears (in millions of U.S. dollars)  0.0       2.7       10.3        15.8        10.3        0.0
Temis oftrade (percent change. USS termns)              0.3       -11.3         8.6       41.7        -0.7        -1.7
Total extemal liabilities (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2/  182.6  165.8      166.9      196.0       145.6       180.2
In percent of GDP                                     61.8        50.7       46.9        52.6       48.4        56.4
Debt service                                           21.7        10.7        15.5       10.8        34.7        21.5
Percent ofexports I/                                  11.7         5.2        7.3         4.6        17.9       10.1
Nominal GDP                                           295.6       326.8       356.0      372.9       300.6       319.2
Sources: IMF Staff Reports and Solomon Islands authorities.
I/ Of goods and services.
2/ Includes arrears (of principal only).



49                                                        ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
Table 3. Solomon Islands: Summary of Public Finance Indicators, 1994-99
199S             1999
1994   1995   1996   1997 Budget   Est.    Budget Adj.Scen
(In millions of Solomon Islands dollars)
Total revenue and grants                 45S    445    506    468    558    538         544     56S
Total revenue                          279    319    316    319    374    354         369     383
Tax revenue                           237    270    292    289    326    323        307      333
Incometax                            59     81     90    101    109    136         109      117
Taxes on goods and services          36     43      52     52     73      65        74       S0
Taxes on intemational trade         142    146    150    136    144    122         124      136
Of which: On timber                 81     72     73     58      31      36       34       ...
Nontax revenue I/                     42     50     24      30     48      31        62      50
GrantsV2                              179    126    191    149    184    184         175      185
Total expenditure                        511    505    564    535    556    536         563      579
Recurrent expenditure                  306    328    341    365    356    330         341     357
Wages and salaries                   123    122    135    155    152    158         147      159
Interest payments                     39     45     55    44       44      30       45       50
Other                                144    160    151    165    160    142         149     149
Development expenditure                205    177    222    170    201      206       222     222
Current balance                           -27     -8   -26    45        18     24        28       26
Overall balance                           -54    -59    -57    -67       1       2      -19      -10
Financing                                 54     59      57     67      -1     -2        19       to
Foreign (net)                            4      22     23     11      4       49       43       85
Disbursements (cash)                   5     25      9      9      62      85       90      114
Amortization (accrual)                -9   -13    -15    -18    -23       -18       -12     -12
Accumulationofarrears(netofresched    ...     9     28    20    -44       -18       -35     -17
Domestic (net)                           58     38     35    55        3     -51      -24      -75
Net borrowing cashbasis                ...    19    -I       3       0     -13        -4     -58
Changes in arrears net of rescheduling.  0    19     14    53      40      -38       -50     -30
Asset sales                             0      0     21      0      43       0       30       14
(In percent of GDP)
Total revenue and grants                 47.1   39.9   39.2   33.7   36.8   37.1       34.2    35.8
Total revenue                          28.7   28.7   24.4   23.0   24.6   24.4        23.2    24.1
Tax revenue                          24.4   24.2   22.6   20.8   21.5   22.3        19.3    21.0
Grants                                 18.4   11.3   14.8   10.7   12.1    12.7       11.0    11.7
Total expenditure                        52.6   45.3   43.6   38.5   36.7   37.0        35.4    36.4
Recurrent expenditure                  31.5   29.4   26.4   26.2   23.5   22.8        21.5    22.5
Of which:
Wages and salaries                   12.6   10.9   10.4   11.2   10.0   10.9        9.3    10.0
Interest payments                   4.0    4.1    4.3    3.2    2.9    2.0         2.9      3.1
Other                               14.8   14.4   11.1   11.9   10.5    9.8        9.4      9.4
Development expenditure                21.1   15.9   17.2   12.2   13.2    14.2       13.9    13.9
Current balance                          -2.8   .0.7   -2.0   -3.3     1.2    1.7        1.7     1.6
Overall balance                          -5.5   -5.3   -4.4   -4.S    0.1      0.2     -1.2    -0.6
Financing                                 5.5    5.3    4.4    4.8   -0.1    -0.2        1.2     0.6
Foreign (net)                          -0.4    1.9    1.8    0.s   -0.3      3.4       2.7      5.3
Domestic (net)                          6.0    3.4    2.7    4.0    0.2   -3.5        -1.5     4.7
Of which:
Changesinarrearsnetofrescheduling   0.0    1.7    1.1    3.8   -2.6   -2.7        -3.1    -1.9
Privatization                      0.0    0.0    1.6   0.0    2.8    0.0          1.9      0.9
Memorandum items:
Overall balance excluding grants      -23.9  -16.6  -19.2  -15.5   -12.0   -12.5    -12.2   -12.3
Expenditure financed by nongrant sources    34.2   34.0   28.8   27.8   24.6   24.3   24.4    24.7
Total public debt                      66.4   60.8   54.8  67.4       ...   60.3        ...    54.7
External public debt                 32.8   29.9   27.8   41.9      ...   36.8       ...    38.9
Domestic public debt                 33.6   30.9   27.0   25.6      ...   23.4               15.8
Stock of arrears                        ...   2.5    6.4   13.8              6.2       ...      0.6
External                               ...   0.8    2.9    5.4      ...    3.4       ...     0.0
Domestic                              ...    1.7    3.5    8.4      ...    2.s               0.6
NominalGDP(inmillionsofS.l.dollars)   972.6 1.114.5 1,293.1 1,390.8  1.517.1  1,449.7   1.588.9  1,5S8.9
Sources: IMS Staff Reports and Solomon Islands authorities.
i/ Excluding proceeds from privatization- the lanter is included as a financing item below the line.
2/ Includes technical assistance and aid in kind.



Table 4. Solomon Islands: Monetary Developments, 1994-99
1999
1998                                        Prj. 11
1994      1995      1996       1997          Mr         Jun.      Sep.         Dec.         Mar.        Jun        Sep.      Dec.
Aecaga of Ibe Celral Bsak of the Solomon blaids                                                     (In millions of Solomon Islands dollrs)
Netforeipguss                                             47        44        I08        144           139       144        166         225          227        231         2S8       320
Netdomestsicasets                                         IS        32         .8        -51           .46       -56        -64         -90           -26        -S7       -113      .167
O.-hickh.
Netcreditrothegovemmenst                              60        S0         75         75            73        56         53          22           43         49          30       -10
Claimnsondheggovenment                                71        85        79         82            82         t1        S2           Q2           S2         72         60         25
Goverment deposit                                    -11        -4         -4        .6            -9        -25       .2S          -60          .3B        -23        -30        -35
Bokolo bills outaing                                     .2         0       -35        -48           -31        -36       -35         -26            ...        ...        ...       ..
Ote itaems net                                         -44        -49       -4S        -79           -89        .77       -83          .-6           ..
OQ ssk*:
Capital                                            -54       -56        .60       .60            -96       .96        -96         -ff
Other                                               10         7         13       -19              7        19         13          10            ...        ...        ...       ...
Resrvemoney V                                             62        76        *00        93             93        88        102         135           141        144        145       154
Currencyoutsidedepesitmoneybanks                        50        S5        60         71            63         72        71           SI           ...        ...         ..        ...
Maaemry anevey                                                                                       (tn millions of Solmon Islands dotita)
Netaforeipass                                             41        42        106        I51           139       149        176         225          227        231        25S        320
CBSI                                                    47         44       *O0        144           139       144        166         225           227       231         258       320
Cognmerial bnks                                          -4        -2         -I         7             0          5        10           0             0          0          0         0
Ntatdomaksic sets                                        267       299        287       267            259       247       242          214          232        236        213        ISO
Domak crredit                                         323        350       357        369           392        38S       326          356          373        378        3S5       122
Goveassnmetm(na)                                    215        227       226        227           231        217       214          *78          194        195        16S       136
Privteaectoe                                        lOS        123        131       142           160        171       172          172         10         *23        117       191
Odir ites (net)                                        -56       -52        -70      -102          -133       -141      -144         -142         -142       -142       -142      -142                                                 o
Broadmozey                                               309       340        393       418           398        396       418          439          459        467        471        S00
Nanow money                                            160        170       I"        211            195       19S        222         222
Q    ,-,mjy                                            149        170       19S        207           202        197       196         217            ..         ..          .        ...
(Peren-tge change)
Netforeigpasr                                          -*16.5      .1.0     152.4      41.9           33.1      22.7       26.9        49A1         63.4       54.6        46.5      42.4
Naedomesrcasut                                          34.6       11.7      -3.6       -6.9         -12.2     -14.7      -13.7       -20.1         -10.2       4.5      -12.1      -15.9
Domesrc credit                                          24.7        8.S       1.9        3.3           7.2       7.6        7.5        -3.5          4.4       .2.5        4.1       -9.6
Of ls: Private sector                                 22.3       14.1       6.3        8.4          19.7      27.9      30.6         25.3         12.6        6.8 S       .5       7.2
rotadmoney                                              24.1        9.9      15.7        6.3          -0.3      -3.8       -0.4         4.8          155        17.9       12.7      14.0
Memorandum items:
Veocily of broad money 3/                             3.48       3.43      3.53       3.43            ---       ---                  3.3S           ...        ..          .      3 39
Money muliplier                                       5.03       4.49      3.93       452           4.27      4.50       4.12        3.25          325       325         3.25      3.25
Weighted averae interest res on
Loms endovrrdrsfls4/                               16.23     1664       16.39      14.6          14.2       14.4      14.1        14.1                       .          ..
Deposiu 4t                                          7.66      7.39      4.76        2.1           2.2        3.3       4.1         4.4           ...         .
Interestrtespread                                  S.57       9.25      11.63     12.51          11.9       11.1      10.0         9.7
Treasurybill re 5/                                   1125       1258      12.75      13.25           6.0       6.0       6.0          6.0
Bokolobills(CBSI)rate,aeagle 5/                       925       11.25      8.19       2.50           50        5.0        50          5.0
Exces liquidily ratio, (end-of-period) 6/             153        125       221       21.9           222       20.4      20.3         21.1
of0/ ch. Bokolobills, end-of-period)7/              00        00         8.2       12.6           6.8       6.1       57           2.8
Sources Data provided by the Solomons Islands wsthoriies. snd Fund staffestimales.                                                                                                                                      P'  5
I/ Sffl projectiOns based on the ssunplion that eciommended adjusimen policies re fUlly implemented. 
2/ Currency outsde deposit money beaks plus DMB deposits at the CBSI
3/ Nomional GOP dsnided by average broad money supply of current and preceding year.                                                                                                                                    O
4 Mnhthly figures refer to average ovar corresponding quarte                                                                                                                                                            0
*/ Roe on 91-day bills
h/ Commecial bank liq.id ass in ecess of the required liquid sstus  s a percet of total deposits. Bokolo bill holdings re included in excess liquid asset hough they do not 
count tow,d sattifacuon of th. statutorv reserve ratio
7/  tosorsnlaol honk h,ddmvs oIf tSckolo hills as a prrcrnr of total dryosits



Status of Bank Group Operations in Solomon Islands
Operations Portfolio
Di fference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                          Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.      Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd  *Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
SB-PE-4629      1993   SIG                             EDUCATION III                            .00(       16.90        0.00         2.24        1.51        0.00      S           s
Total                                                                                           0.00       16.90        0.00         2.24        1.51        0.00
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 15.12              16.35               31.47
of which has been repaid:                 0.00                 .98                 .98
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 16.90              13.92               30.82
Amount sold                     :0.00                               0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :                2.24               0.00                2.24 4
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
>I



52
AMNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
Solomon Islands at a: glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                               Solomon    Asia &   middle.
sinds    Paii -income           Delopmentdlamornd:
Populin, nmd'Yer (mena)                              0.42      1,763 !        2,21i6          iHe epc
GNP per copt (Abs n  .14  USS)                       *750       970      1.230
GNP (A5asmeMOW  US$ bAbns)                           0.31      1,707    2.818
Averep annual growth, 199248.
Popubaion(%)                                          3.1        1.3      1.2
Labor fXJ -                                           3.1        1.4      1.3      GNP                             Gross
per        -\                Ii
lost recent estimate at  year available, 1992-98)                                 capita                       enroUm.ent
Poverty (X of population beiow natonal poverty lIne)
Urban popula0in (1 aotal populatn)                     19        32        42
Lieexpecta    at bith  ears)                           70        89        89
Infwd mortit  aw 1,000 h  bts)                         ..        38        38
Child malnuton (1 6f chddren under 5)                            22                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 64        84        84
ltMacy (1 o6pophak  ae: 15+)                                     17        19
Gross primary ernfoment (%oa schoolage populaion)      97       115       111              Salomon Islands
Mate                                                103       118       118              Lower-middl4ncome group
Female                                               89       116       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratlos-
GDP (US$ bilions)                           0.08     0.16       0.37     0.30
Gross domestic Investmen/GDP                         34.0                                         Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                    52.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           22.3
Gross national savings/GDP                           44.6
Current account balance/GOP                  9.0      -2.8     -10.2       5.5     Do b/estic
Interest payments/GDP                        0.0       1.3       0.3       1.2       Iis                       Investment
Total debVGDP                               13.3    59.4        38.3
Total debt servic/exports                    0.0      6.1        2.4
Present value of debVGDP                                        23.5
Present value of debtexports                                    37.4
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 7.4      3.9    -0.5        -7.0       4.0        -     Solomon Islands
GNP per capia                       3.1      0.4    -3.5        -9.7                        Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       8.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1995      1996     Growth rates or output and Investment (%)
(#60f GDP)                                                                         1
Agriculture                                                     50.6      48.1    is
Industry                                                         8.9      12.4    10
Manufacturing                                                  3.8       3.5      o _ _ __ __ __
Services                                                        40.6      39.5
-  3 94       96 i
Private consumption                                  47.9                         .10 -
General govemment consumption                        29.8                                       GDI       -o   GD
Imports of goods and services                        64.5
(average annual growth)                  197747  1988-98       1995      1996     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                                     12.0      4.2    2
Industry                                                        12.0      40.1
Manufacturing                                                  5.2      -7.4
Services                                                         3.7      -2.1
Private consumpion                           2.2
General govemment consumption                5.4                                  o -
Gross domestic Investment                    2.2                   .3    04   95   oe   07 .4
Imports of goods and services                2.7                                          -     Exports    0  importa
Gross natonal product                        6.8       3.7       8.5       0.6
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
' The diamonds show four key indicators In the country On bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wiv
be incompbt.



53                                               ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Solomon Islands
PRICES and GOVERNMEfN FINANCE
1977    1987       1397     19918     Inkaton M%)
% (  g) IhT
Cosmwtpres                                    8.6    11.0        8.1      12.0    1
Iplicit GDP defator                            ..       ..       9.7      12.3
GovwnnmontA
( of GOP. hichdes cunt granso)                                                             ,
Curent revenue                                 ..       ..      23.0      24.4            O3   54   ff    C s7 a
Cueret budget bance                            ..       ..      -3.3       1.7             -    GDP dr           CPI
Overall surplus/dct                             ..      ..      -4.8       0.2
TRADE
(US$ miions)                               91177    1987        1997     1998      EXPot an Impot levels (US$ millions)
Total expots (fob)                             ..       ..       174      141     2n
LogP                                         ..       ..        80        41
Fish (frozen)                                 ..      ..        17
Manufactres                                   ..      ..        20
Total imports (C)                               .        .       200      147    14S
Food
Fuel and enrwgy
Capita goods 
Export pnce ndex (1995=100)                                      113         .2   93  94  95  so  97   la
Import prie Index (1995=100)                   ..        ..       92                         o Exporat    cimpons
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                        123      122                                               1
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Curmnt account baiance to GDP rtol%
Exports of goods and services                 3S       84        231      191       8
Imports of goods and services                 39      119        302      206       a
Resource balance                              -3      -35        -71      -15       4
Net income                                     -4      -8         -7       -6                              F1
Net current transfers                         13       38         40       38      -2  92   0     9         96        96
Current account balance                        o        -5       -38       17      J
Financing items (net)                           1      I1         32        4     40
Changes in net reserves                        7        8          6       -21    42
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       ..        32       49
Conversion rate (DEC, localSS)                0.9      2.0       3.7       4.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(USS mDilions)                                                                     ComposIon of tota debt 197 (US$ millions)
Total debt oustanding and disbtursed            9      98        135
IBRD                                         0        0          0                                 G 2
IDA                                          0       10         30                                          8:30
Total debt service                              0       5          6
IBRD                                         0        0          0                   F:45
IDA                                          0        0          0
Composition of net resource flows
Offcial grants                              10       34         18 6
Olficial credtors                            0       14          2                           /    I
Private creditors                            0        0         -4
Foreign direct invesment                     ..       ..                                 E: 14           D: 44
Portfblio equity                             ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                                                     A A- IRO                      E-Bl
Disbursements                                0        1          3              8 -IDA    D - Othe mustwal   F - Private
Principal repayments                         0        0          0              C-IMF                         G - Shorterm
Net fows                                     0        1          2
Interest payments                            0        0          0
Net transfers                                0        1          2
Developmet EconomIcs                                                                                                5/99



MAP SECTION



IRED 14259
159  -~~~~~~~~    ,~~~~  ICC.                              159                                195'                  ITO'                   55'                    169                    169                 MAY 1979~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY 97
PAPLUA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -Ml
NEW  GUINEA                                  South                Pacific              Ocean                                              NEW  GUINEA  ~~~~~~    ~ >-~  BRITAIN              r< -                                NOiSa  AANEW  LPEN A  CR/A
SOUOAPNVPL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  - CNAoose9o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PA P JA    N EW   4U IN E A                                                                                                   ,    s~ 
v."  ~     S0SHORTLAND,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -  4<o  XzMkioUco  NO05
Sj'Sr.;oISLANDS  4          ~    '"'COA                                                                                                                                                       UABE~IISAD
<~~~~~~~~1~~~~~<  I-t~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                  R~~~~~ILUOSE-S5 D 200    40      60       0
060~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 6 
-  ½   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 ~~~~160                                                       I                    161'                                      162'
*                                                                                                          <~  )lht~RURsons6              Santa   Isael                                                                              S L       M    N   ISILAND
Moo  LOMBARGABA                II?  ~~~~~Q~                                                                                                   CvO  MOjo towS
B'j  EANONUGA                                                           I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S NTA  A5BE                                                                                                                 RINUoRES .
Msnokosopot'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<  I  07 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roods
OQR§IA                                                N«15Refs
Lola  N  A  I               '4   ~~~~~~~~~~'I/"                                                                                                           ,,L45 HighIonds (over 1,000 feel~~~~~~~~~~~~A igh..d  1
a  N                                                                                                  .ro.iIibosi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IM..oto  o-'e
NEW.GEORCIA                                           I ~ ~~~~~~~~~Ssp,5a~~~~isEse6o                                        RpIU~~~~~~~    4                      -. Interostional boundAorIiBsopp'fotv  'ea
Western                                                                  -            VNUU~                                            ------------*---'-*i AA                                                                 44             aat
TETEPABE                         N006E5                                                                                                os44ALA[ITA,
5050077 ISLANDS            "'~LaRIDA  ISLANO            Xl 
c>  1151$                 PIL S E  A                                                      7'
<4   MBAIEA  "5  't                 ;4~0-~                           -
146'                        IS?'                                       159                                                             LOON                            aESSO EIFIS~-'
Central  Islands,                                                                                                                                                         5500S< -~2~~ 
ISLANDS                                                                                                                           A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~
~~04,. ~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                          I                             j5)561    07~~~~~~~~~~~
RsnsgoSs v                                                                                     I                                                                                         T5W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5N4Q§,~~GUAD
K ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~udlaa
K  <4'L~~~~~~~~~~hsnss ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
Makira    UJow       Ossnsow
169                            166'                                      160'  Il' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 ISO'                                        61'                                        162'                    1-~~ental  n  



