Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 22!1Si
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 32520-SOL)
June 27, 2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 2001 )
Currency Unit   =    Solomon Islands Dollar (SBD)
1 SBD    =   US$ 0.21
US$1.00   =    SBD$ 4.82
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric System
FISCAL YEAR: January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
AusAID    -   Australian Agency for International Development
CBSI   -   Central bank of Solomon Islands
CHS   -   Community High Schools
CNURP   -   Coalition for National Unity, Reconciliation, and Peace
DBSI   -   Development Bank of Solomon Islands
DNPD    -   Department of National Planning and Development
DOF   -   Department of Finance
ESAF   -   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESCAP   -   Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
EU    -   European Union
FIAS   -   Foreign Investment Advisory Service
IB   -   Investment Board
MAF   -   Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MHMS   -   Ministry of Health and Medical Services
MLAR    -   Minimum Liquid Asset Ratio
MTBF   -   Medium-Term Budget Framework
MTWCA    -   Ministry of Transport, Works, Communication and Aviation
NBSI   -   National Bank of Solomon Islands
NGO    -   Non-government Organizations
NPF   -   National Provident Fund
PSIP   -   Public Sector Investment Program
PSRC    -   Policy and Structural Reform Committee
PSRP   -   Policy and Structural Reform Program
SIAC   -   Solomon Islands Alliance for Change
SIEA    -   Solomon Islands Electricity Authority
SIF   -   Social Investment Funds
SIG    -   Solomon Islands Government
SOE   -   State-owned Enterprise
Vice President                             :    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director                           :    Klaus Rohland, EACNF
Sector Director                            :    Homi Kharas, EASPR
Task Team Leader at ICR                    :    Vivek Suri, EACNF
ICR Primary Author                         :    Thang-Long Ton, EASPR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 3252-SOL)
CONTENTS
1.  Project Data .....................................................1
2.  Principal Performance Ratings ............................... ......................2
3.  Assessment of Development Objectives and Design,
and of Quality at Entry .....................................................2
4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs                     .6
5.  Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome .15
6. Sustainability .17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance .17
8. Lessons Leared .19
9. Partner Comments .19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators .....................................................     32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing .....................................................     32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................................... 33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs ..................................................... 33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components ... 34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance ................... ............... 35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Document -- Policy Matrix ............................... 36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT No. 3252-SOL)
Project ID: P061214                       Project Name: Structural Adjustment Credit
Team Leader: Hilarian Codippily/Vivek Suri   TL Unit: EASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                        Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Structural Adjustment Credit        L/C/TFNumber: 3252-SOL
Country/ Solomon Islands/EASPR                     Region: East Asia and
Department:                                                    Pacific Region
Sector/subsector: KN - Macro/Non-Trade
Key Dates                                                  Original Revised/Actual
Project Concept Document 7/30/1998         Effectiveness 7/15/1999        7/15/1999
Appraisal 2/25/1999
Approval 6/17/1999              Closin  12/31/2000        12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Solomon Islands/The Policy and Structural Reform Committee
Agency: (PSRC) under the Prime Minister
Other Partners: None
Staff                   At ICR preparation           At Appraisal
Vice President:         Jemal-ud-din Kassum          Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:       Klaus Rohland                Klaus Rohland
Sector Director:        Homi Kharas                  Tamar Manuelyan Atinc (acting)
Team Leader at ICR:     Vivek Suri                   Hilarian Codippily
ICR Primary Writer:     Thang-Long Ton               None
Country Team  Reviewers Sanjay Dhar and Vivek Suri    None
for the ICR:



- 2 -
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; HL = Highly Likely; UN = Unlikely, HUN = Highly
Unlikely, HU = Highly Unsatisfactory, H = High, SU = Substantial, M = Modest, N = Negligible)
2.1.  The principal performance ratings are as follows:
Outcome:                             U
Sustainability:                      UN
Institutional Development Impact:    M
Bank Performance:                    S
Borrower Performance:                U
ICR               QAG (if available)
Quality at entry                     S                  not available
Project at Risk at any time          yes                not available
3. Assessment of Development Obiectives. Design and Quality at Entry
3.1   Original Objective:
Background
3.1.1. In 1997-98, the Solomon Islands experienced an economic crisis. The cumulative effects
of many years of poor economic management and weak fiscal discipline (budget deficit averaged
about 4.5 percent of GDP during 1995-98) were exacerbated by the East Asian financial crisis.
The mid-1990s logging boom boosted export receipts and government revenues, but concealed
structural weaknesses in the economy and was environmentally damaging. Prior to the crisis,
timber exports accounted for about 60 percent of export receipts and provided 25 percent of tax
revenues. Consequently, the collapse of the log markets in Japan and Korea following the East
Asian crisis was a major setback to the economy, with logging activity falling by over 30 percent.
Due to the financing of large budget deficits, the financial sector had become seriously over-
exposed to the government which was unable to service its debt: external and domestic debt
arrears mounted, threatening the financial stability of the country.
3.1.2. Against this backdrop, the reform-minded Solomon Islands Alliance for Change (SIAC)
government was elected in August 1997. The new government embarked on a comprehensive
Policy and Structural Reform Program which was supported by the Bank. During 1999, the
Solomon Islands economy was slowly recovering from the adverse effects of the fiscal and East
Asian crises of 1997-98. There were also signs that the reform program introduced by the SIAC
government was beginning to produce results with growing optimism for a strong economic
performance.
3.1.3. However, the SIAC government's committed and promising start on its reform agenda
was cut short by an ethnic crisis. The social unrest, that erupted in mid-1999 and intensified in



- 3 -
2000, led to a coup that resulted in the removal of the Prime Minister in June 2000. The
hostilities, which involved two armed groups, the Isatabu Freedom Movement (IFM, from the
island of Guadalcanal) and the Malaitan Eagle Forces (MEF, from the island of Malaita),
disrupted key economic activities and the country's GDP is estimated to have fallen 14 per cent
in 2000.
3.1.4. It is against this changing political background that the Bank's Structural Adjustment
Credit was carried out and its implementation and outcome were clearly impacted by the difficult
political circumstances of the country.
Objectives
3.1.5. The Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) was an integral part of the package designed to
help the SIAC government elected in 1997 to carry out its Policy and Structural Reform Program.
The program aimed to restore macroeconomic stability and to move the economy to a growth
path that could be sustained. To fulfill this overall objective, an integrated set of policy actions
were to be implemented: (1) Achieving and maintaining macroeconomic stability; (2) Structural
reforns in public finances, financial sector, and forestry resources management, (3) private sector
development and stimulation for a supply response, and (4) active efforts toward poverty
alleviation through efficient and equitable delivery of social services and poverty assessment.
3.1.6. Macroeconomic stabilization: The principal objective of the SAC was to support the
government in guiding the economy toward stabilization with low inflation, a sustainable
position in the balance of payments, through a more proactive use of fiscal and monetary
instruments.
3.1.7 Structural reforms. The SAC would focus on a four-fold objective within the framework
for structural adjustment in the fiscal-forestry-financial sector triangle. First, the restoration of
order in the fiscal sector was the centerpiece of macroeconomic stabilization, combining
structural improvements and short-term fiscal measures to restrain expenditure and raise revenue.
It focused on the quality of public expenditures and ways for these to be restructured to promote
economic growth and equity; the SAC would also support shift in public expenditures to basic
infrastructure and to basic public functions to help stimulate the overall supply response.
Secondly, the SAC would assist the financial sector to ensure adequate support for private sector
development, including microfinance. Third, the management of forestry resources would need
to be improved and enhanced so as to promote economically and environmentally sustainable
growth.
3.1.8. Private sector development and supply response. The SAC would contribute to creating
favorable conditions for a supply response via the promotion of important elements in the
incentive framework, essentially microeconomic and regulatory in nature.  These would
encourage and strengthen private sector development, reinforced by fiscal and monetary policies
pursued by the government to stabilize the economy.



- 4 -
3.1.9. Poverty alleviation. In order to help the government meet the challenges to progressively
improve living standards of the general population and to design a strategically sound human
development policy and specific social programs, the SAC proposed a poverty assessment for the
Solomon Islands as part of the program to help identify accurately the actual situation with
respect to social service delivery, level and distribution of poverty, and the extent and nature of
gender inequalities. Pending the completion of the poverty assessment, the SAC would also
support effort to improve public services in the health and education sectors.
3.2   Revised Objective:
3.2.1. No revisions were made to the above-mentioned objectives.
3.3   Original Components:
3.3.1. In accordance with the main objectives presented in 3.1 above, the key policy and
institutional changes supported by the SAC were as follows:
Maintaining macroeconomic policy:
3.3.2. The credit supported a proactive use of fiscal and monetary instruments to help restore
macroeconomic stability following a period of serious imbalances in several key economic
sectors: large budget deficit, high inflation rate, and balance of payments' deficit.
3.3.3. The restoration of fiscal sustainability began with the management of the 1999 budget.
The government continued a tight overall fiscal policy stance for 1999 and adhered to the 1999
fiscal targets by relying on a combination of structural improvements and short-term measures to
restrain expenditure and raise revenue. These included maintaining near fiscal balance, no
provision for domestic financing of the budget, arrears reduction, and restructuring of the
government's domestic debt. These reforms aimed at lowering borrowing costs to commercial
banks, restoring the central bank's ability to conduct active monetary policy, and provide
affordability in meeting higher interest payments from the national budget. Measures to conserve
and restore revenues were encouraged and those to reduce expenditures where possible would be
implemented. Fiscal discipline was to be strictly maintained in 1999 and a minimum of
supplementary budgets would be kept.
3.3.4. Tight fiscal policies were complemented with a market-oriented monetary policy.
Monetary policy aimed to safeguard the external position and the domestic price level and to
provide adequate credit to support the private sector through the reduction of the minimum
liquid-asset ratio (MLAR) and the resumption of treasury bills auctions for monetary liquidity
management and government debt service payments.
Structural reforms.
3.3.5. The SAC was formulated to assist the government in its efforts to create the conditions
necessary to set the economy on the path for sustainable growth in the medium and long run.
Key structural changes supported by the SAC included:



3.3.6. Fiscal sector restructuring: To assure quality and efficiency of public expenditures, the
SAC supported the restructuring of the budget by allocating expenditures towards operations and
maintenance with the aim to help support private sector activities and growth objectives. The
SAC also supported measures to insure adequate budgetary allocation towards public health
services and basic education to help alleviate these dimensions of poverty.
3.3.7. The government also planned to eliminate arrears in domestic debts and exemptions from
export duty on logs. The SAC supported shifts in public expenditures toward basic infrastructure
(mainly road, water supply, electricity, and telecommunications) and toward catalytic functions
such as agriculture research and extension to aid in the creation of favorable conditions for a
supply response.
3.3.8. Financial sector. The SAC focused on helping restore financial health and stability to this
sector which had been subject to mismanagement in the 1990s. This included undertaking
measures to prevent the crowding out effect in the credit market for the private sector by
government domestic borrowing, targeting a balanced government budget for 1999-2000,
resuming domestic debt service payments and restructuring its domestic debt portfolio, payments
of arrears, resuscitating the market for domestic securities, and appropriate interest rate policy to
be pursued by the central bank. In addition, the SAC supported a number of reforms that would
broaden and deepen the market, improving competition and access to credit and financial
services, and enhancing the regulatory and supervisory system for a sound and safe financial
system.
3.3.9. Forestrg Resources Management. The measures supported by the SAC in the forestry
sector sought to ensure sustainability in the exploitation of renewable forestry resources, and
minimizing negative environmental impacts to benefit the development of Solomon Islands.
Measures undertaken included new forestry legislation, regulations and guidelines on logging.
Logging licenses were expected to be reviewed under more stringent standards and the Code of
Practice for Logging was implemented. Overall, the SAC supported the management of forestry
resources in order to promote economically and environmentally sustainable growth for the
country.
Private Sector Development and Supply response.
3.3.10. The SAC sought to help create conditions enabling a supply response. First, by restoring
macroeconomic stability and the expected result of lowering uncertainty and risk premiums and
of bringing back both price stability and competitive pricing of domestic resources, the
government would create an enabling environment for investors and producers. Second, to
enhance the supply response, the SAC focused on important elements of the incentive
framework, essentially microeconomic and regulatory in nature. Steps included reviews of tax
and tariff policies, price deregulation, streamlining of investment approval procedures, and
promotion of greater consultation between the government and other stakeholders.



-6 -
Poverty alleviation.
3.3.11. The SAC sought to insure that the government met the challenge of maintaining previous
levels of expenditures in social services, especially those that benefit the poor and the
disadvantaged, in the health and education sectors. A poverty assessment was to be initiated, to
design a strategically sound human development policy and appropriate programs for
employment creation for the Solomon Islands.
3.4   Revised Components:
3.4.1. No revisions were made to the above components.
3.5   Quality at Entry
3.5.1  The SAC is rated satisfactory for quality at entry by the ICR. The SAC was consistent
with the statement of the Bank's assistance strategy that called for the development of a market-
oriented economy and a private sector-based approach. This included pursuing a strategy for
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform. The SAC was an instrument that would
support the SIAC government's Policy and Structural Reform Program (PSRP). It is worth
noting here that it was one of the first adjustment operations in the Pacific islands, with the
exception of that in Papua New Guinea.
3.5.2. The project's design for the restoration and maintenance of macroeconomic stability led
to improvements in the economy during the reform period. There was strong ownership from the
government as the program effectively supported the agenda of the government. Based on
several years of dialogue with the authorities, the SAC was designed to cover both macro and
structural issues. It addressed key issues relating to public finances, the financial sector, forestry,
private sector development, and the social sector. There was extensive collaboration with the
IMF on macroeconomic issues. Performance under the first tranche conditions surpassed the
targets and benchmarks allowing the disbursement of $7 million.
3.5.3. Major risks to the operation were accurately assessed and clearly highlighted in the
preparation of the program. The country was faced with political instability and ethnic tensions,
deteriorating public infrastructure, a narrowly based private sector, low capacity levels in the
civil service, and limited donor engagement. The risk created by ethnic tension came to the fore
during program implementation and led to the closing of the Credit without disbursement of the
second tranche.
4.    Achievement of Obiectives
4.1   Outcome/achievement of objective
4.1.1. Given the chain of events in the Solomon Islands during the implementation of the SAC,
there is a need to separate the reform period and the ethnic crisis period in the assessment
exercise. The achievements of the objectives of this Credit prior to the social unrest were
substantial, meeting all pre-Board conditions and progressing toward the fulfillment of second
tranche conditions. The project contributed effectively toward the stabilization of the economy



- 7 -
and helped initiate the necessary steps toward redressing serious imbalances in many economic
sectors. But these achievements were subsequently undermined by the onset of ethnic violence
and political upheaval (Box 1), leading to the overall unsatisfactory rating for the outcome. The
unsatisfactory rating is not a reflection of problems with the design of the SAC but that the
operation was simply overtaken by the chain of events during the ethnic crisis.
Box 1. Ethnic Crisis of 1999-2000 in Solomon Islands.
The recent tensions started towards the end of 1998 when armed militants from Guadalcanal
started forcing settlers of Malaitan origin to leave. Tensions worsened in mid-1999, and at their height,
over 20,000 people, mostly from Malaita, were forced to leave their homes in Guadalcanal. In retaliation
a militant group from Malaita was established and started counterattacking by the end of 1999. In
addition to the 20,000 people displaced to Malaita, estimates of people displaced within Guadalcanal
range between 12,000-18,000. While the conflict directly involves inhabitants of two islands, the impact
has been felt throughout the Solomon Islands. Indeed there has been a growing resentment among
inhabitants of other islands against what they see as disproportionate government attention being given to
Guadalcanal and Malaita at their cost, and some islands have threatened to secede.
In late- 1999, peace efforts through a Commonwealth Special Representative and an international
police force failed to secure peace. The Royal Solomon Islands Police Force and Solomon Islands Prison
Service were deeply divided along provincial lines and were largely unable to deal with the law and order
situation. The MEF took control of the capital city in June 2000, and carried out a joint military
operation, detaining the Prime Minister on June 5. After two days, the Prime Minister was released
following his agreement to resign. The National Parliament was then called to elect a new Prime
Minister. The first Parliament session was adjourned due to a boycott by the majority of the Parliament
Members. During the second session the Parliament elected the new Prime Minister, Sogavare, on June
30, 2000. The Sogavare government saw the establishment of peace as its key goal. It made
compensation payments to the two militias amounting to US$ 2 million to bring them together to
negotiate a cease fire in August. On October 15, a peace agreement was signed in Townsville, Australia.
The agreement envisages government action to sustain peace and promote reconciliation.
4.1.2. The project began with a solid record from the government. Performance under the first
tranche conditions even surpassed the targets and benchmarks. Considerable progress was also
achieved toward the fulfillment of the conditions for the second tranche release through the first
quarter of 2000. There was strong ownership of the program. However, the ethnic crisis resulted
in a change in government and the new government's attention was diverted from the
management of the economy to securing a sustainable peace. With its focus on peace and given
the fragile economic and social environment, the Coalition for National Unity, Reconciliation,
and Peace (CNURP) government considered it unrealistic under these circumstances to attempt
significant economic reforms. However, it believed that its efforts towards peace and economic
recovery would lay the ground work to embark on a structural reform program with the objective
of promoting private sector led economic growth and poverty reduction.
4.1.3. With the intensification of the crisis, policy priorities necessarily changed (for both old
and new governments) and two key conditions of the second tranche remained unmet. The
collapse of government revenues and recourse to central bank financing of the government
deficit also undermined the prior progress towards fiscal discipline and macroeconomic stability.
Arrears with trade creditors and suppliers started to build once again. Some of the progress



- 8 -
towards better forestry practices was also reversed as the conflict made it difficult to monitor
logging activities.  In view  of the significantly changed economic, political and social
environment in the country, and in agreement with the authorities, the SAC was allowed to close
on December 31, 2000 without disbursement of the second tranche.
4.1.4. The new government views the unfinished financial sector and private sector
development reforms as medium-term priorities. It justifiably wishes to focus on peace building
as its immediate priority and supported the closure of the SAC. In addition, the conflict and its
causes have raised new issues (especially regarding regional inequities in development) that it
intends to address. In light of the changed circumstances, the authorities envisaged restructuring
and reprioritizing the unfinished reform program once the peace process showed promise of
consolidating.
4.1.5. The following section outlines the achievements of the program supported by this credit.
4.2    Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Table 4.21 summarizes the results of key actions to fulfill the conditions of the SAC at
Board presentation and at the Second Tranche Release.
Objectives and Strategies        Actions Taken Prior to Board     Progress on Actions for the
_________________________________  Presentation                    Second Tranche Release
Macroeconomic stabilization      No net borrowing by the government  Government salaries and wages bill
from the domestic financial system    for FY 1999 exceeded the stipulated
Fiscal deficit funded by concessional  SBD 150 million (actual SBD 152
finance                          million) due to police costs related to
the ethnic crisis
Repaying arrears and reducing debt   No net borrowing from the domestic
Rescheduling of domestic debt    financial system in FY 1999 and FY
2000 Budget. Met for FY 1999 and
although FY 2000 budget was
formulated on this basis as required,
there was in fact borrowing from the
central bank in FY 2000 to meet
I expenditures.



-.9-
Public Finances
Restoration of fiscal balance.   FY1999 budget outturns were within  Increase in budget allocation for
budget appropriation             operations and maintenance by 10
Improvement of budget management                                   per cent in nominal terms for FY
.  .       . .    ~~~~Completion of Phase l of public  pe  eti  oinltrsfrF
Enhancing efficiency and equity in   .          .ticPaIn           2000
soia exediue                    service restructuring
social expenditures                                                1999 phase of action plan to rebuild
lmprovement in Customs duty      teacutn  rmwr
collections by 10 percent over   implemented
FY1999
Public sector employer and       Action plans prepared for audits of
employee contribution commitments  government accounts by the Auditor
empoytheNPFwre ontrib n commiments  General and review of such audits by
to the NPF were met in April 1999 thPulcAontCmie.
the Public Account Committee.
Domestic interest cost arrears   Time frames established for
repayment schedule met           expenditures and payment
No net increase in arrears after  reconciliation between ministries and
allowing for privatization proceeds   the Treasury. A number of
to reduce such arrears.          ministries fully reconciled their
accounts.
Action plan for the rebuilding of a
comprehensive accounting system,    The allocation of the privatization
including plan to re-introduce   proceeds was for repaying arrears,
reconciliation between ministry  reduction in public debts, and
spending records and Treasury    financing of the public sector
payment records                  investment program
The Auditor General prepared the
Strategic Plan (1999-2005),
including plans for audits of
government accounts to be reviewed
by the Public Accounts Committee
Financial Sector Reform
To restore financial sector's    Public announcement of Treasury   Completion of the external review of
confidence, ensure a sound and safe   Bills auction allowing the market to  the Development Bank and the
financial system                 set prices and treasury bill rediscount National Provident Fund (NPF)
facility introduced
Treasury Bills auction conducted
Minimum liquid assets ratio reduced
inline with the debt restructuring  Action plan for the implementation
of the recommendations of the
Monthly Monetary Monitoring      reviewers on the Development Bank
Meetings held                    and the NPF has not yet been
adopted



- 10-
Sustainable Forest Management
Promote economically and         Ensure that the issue of new timber   Continuation of the actions under the
environmentally sustainable growth   licenses and renewal of existing  condition of Board Presentation
by enhancing the management of   licenses was made in strict
forestry resources               compliance with existing regulations
until the current Forest Division's
review of all existing logging
licenses and their allowable cut was
completed, a process to revoke those
in violation was established, and a
consultative process of reducing the
annual allowable cut to a sustainable
level is initiated
Establishment of external funding  Established the Forest Management
for the Forest Management Unit, and  Unit under the Forestry Division of
necessary counterpart funding in the  the Department of Forestry,
budget, training in the application of  Environment and Conservation
the Logging Code of Practices, and
improvement of log export        Allocated fund for the Federal
monitoring capabilities          Management Unit in FY2000
recurrent budget not less than
FY 1999. However, actual funding
fell below budgeted amount and
adversely affected the Forestry
Department's operations
Submitted to Parliament a Forest Bill
acceptable to IDA but is now being
reviewed by new government
Remissions were largely phased out
in the previous government, but the
new authorities have restarted the
practice, justifying them as
assistance to economic activities
disrupted during the crisis
Policy established on community
forestry to support and coordinate
with socially and economically
viable Eco-forestry and other small-
scale saw milling operations



Private Sector Development and
Supply Response
To stimulate private sector      Identified tracts of underutilized  Reasonable time established for
development so as to help achieve    government land for the purpose of   investment approvals (4 weeks) by
sustainable economic growth and  leasing to private investors      the Investment Board and for
more rapid employment creation;                                    investment registration by the
improve the investment climate for                                 Registrar General
local and foreign investment.
The following action was not
completed:
The Investment Board was not
converted into an investment
promotion authority including
adoption of required legislation and
procedures within the Department of
Commerce, Industry, Employment,
and Tourism for simplified
investment approval
Social Sector - Poverty Alleviation   Paid in full to all provinces the  Increase in nominal terms the
approved allocation for January to    FY2000 recurrent budget allocation
To ensure equitable, efficient, and  April 1999 in the FY1999 budget for  for preventive health services by 10
quality basic health services;   provincial health services, wages,    percent
and malaria control
To ensure improved education                                       Allocation of funds for education in
quality, efficiency, access and                                    the FY2000 recurrent budget for the
utilization of services                                            respective schools should be based
on a unit cost formula acceptable to
To ensure specific human                                           IDA. But it was not fulfilled
development and programs are     Terms of Reference acceptable to  because the unit-cost formula was
established                      IDA for a Poverty Assessment that   rendered inoperable due to the crisis
helped to design appropriate social   as school enrollment data were
policies and programs to deal with    unavailable for the derivation of this
poverty alleviation              formula
Poverty assessment initiated
Macroeconomic Stabilization.
4.2.2. Up to the first quarter of 2000, the government made good progress toward stabilizing the
economy and maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework, as reported by the Bank
supervision mission in February 2000 and the IMF mission in March/April 2000. It met all the
conditions for Board presentation established under the macroeconomic stabilization objective
(Table 4.21). The Bank supervision mission found that the government complied with the
second tranche condition on salary expenditures for FY 2000 budget not to exceed by more than
7 percent the amount allocated for such expenditures in FY 1999 budget. Although the actual
amount of SBD 152 million for FY 1999 exceeded the SBD 150 million set in the matrix, the 1.3



- 12-
percent excess was on account of "danger allowances" paid to the police force. The govermment
financed its expenditures in FY 1999 without recourse to net borrowing from the domestic
financial system and the budget for FY2000 was similarly set on this basis. The proceeds from
the privatization of Solomon Telecom at SBD 48.9 million were used to clear arrears of SBD 3.7
million, to repay SBD 12.2 million of govermment debts to the NPF, and SBD 18.1 million of
ICSI debts to the NPF. The allocation of the rest of the privatization proceeds was in line with
the requirements for the second tranche release, i.e., repaying arrears, reduction of public debt
and the financing of the public sector investment program.
4.2.3. However, with the escalation of the crisis in June 2000, the solid gains made could not be
sustained as considerable violence led to major losses in the economy, public finances, and
employment, and created uncertainty in the maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework.
GDP is estimated to have declined 14 percent in 2000. With revenues contracting sharply by over
30 percent, the government started to borrow from the central bank to meet expenditures, thus
overlooking the original plan for the FY2000 budget. Persistent borrowing from the central bank
since mid-2000, in fact, led to a breach in the central bank lending limit to government.
International reserves have fallen from about US$ 45 million at end-March 2000 to about US$ 21
million at end-March 2001. Arrears to suppliers have started to accumulate once again. In
addition, the government is unlikely to redeem a large amount of government bonds falling due
in mid-2001. The gains from the macroeconomic measures thus appear to have dissolved.
Structural Reforms: Public Finances.
4.2.4. The conditions on public finance for Board presentation were met. FY1999 expenditures
were within budget appropriations on a pro-rata basis. The government completed Phase I of the
public service restructuring, improved customs duty collections by 10 percent over FY1999.
Public sector employer and employee contribution commitments were met in April 1999. The
government completed the schedule for interest arrears payments. There were no net arrears
increases after the proceeds from privatization were used to reduce such arrears. However, with
the crisis, revenues fell and expenditures had to be met with additional borrowing and increase in
arrears, threatening the gains realized earlier.
4.2.5. Prior to the Board presentation, an action plan was initiated for the rebuilding of a
comprehensive national accounting system for the Department of Finance to establish firm data
on actual expenditures and to prevent unauthorized uses of funds with basic controls in place.
The action plan also included a plan to reintroduce reconciliation between ministry spending
records and Treasury payments records.  Subsequently, timeframes were established for
expenditures and payments reconciliation records between ministries and the Treasury. The
supervision mission in 2000 found that a number of ministries were fully reconciling their
accounts and urged the speedy action to accomplish these exercises within the established
timeframe.
4.2.6. The government adopted a recurrent FY2000 budget that allocated amounts for operation
and maintenance activities of the Ministry of Transport, Works, Communication and Aviation
exceeding at least 10 percent such allocations in FYI 999 budget.



- 13 -
4.2.7. Finally, the Office of the Auditor General had prepared a Strategic Plan (1999-2005),
which included plans for the audits of government accounts to be reviewed by the Public
Accounts Committee as required under the second tranche conditions.
4.2.8. The previous government had made substantial progress towards discontinuing tax
remissions: by the end of its tenure, the practice had largely been phased out, and for any
remissions still granted, their details were published in the local paper. The new government,
however, restarted the granting of remissions on a large scale as it felt that these were necessary
to help economic activities disrupted by the crisis. In addition, the selection criteria and process
for granting exemptions made it difficult to distinguish those in genuine need of tax breaks.
4.2.9. Earlier progress toward non-bank budget financing and more transparency in this area as
called for in the SAC has been undermined.
Structural Reforms: Financial Sector
4.2.10. To restore confidence in the financial sector and ensure its soundness and safety, a series
of actions were undertaken by the government at Board presentation. Public announcements of
Treasury bill auctions were made and the market was allowed to set the price. The Bokolo bills
(central bank securities) were phased out. In line with debt restructuring, the minimum liquid
assets were reduced. The government held monthly monetary meetings to review the measures
and steps. Other actions covered financial reforms for the two important financial institutions,
the National Provident Fund and the Development Bank and included the agreement by the
central bank to strengthen its supervision over these two institutions, the establishment of a
phased compliance plan for prudential standards, and steps by the central bank to divest its
interests in the Development Bank. The central bank issued terms of reference for an external
review of the financial records for the Development Bank and approved an external review of the
NPF.
4.2.11. Subsequently, Treasury bill auctions were regularly conducted and the monetary policy
was made operational. The external reviews of the Development Bank and the NPF were
completed as part of the conditions of the Second Tranche release. However, action plans for the
implementation of the recommendations of the reviews were not adopted, as specified by this
condition. Reforming these two key financial institutions on the basis of these recommendations
is crucial for the health and stability of the financial sector. These and the current uncertain
situation in the country further undermined the plan to restore the financial sector to health.
Structural Reforms: Sustainable Forest Management
4.2.12. The government committed itself to managing forestry resources to promote
economically and environmentally sustainable growth. This included the introduction of a Code
of Practice for Logging, and more stringent scrutiny of logging licenses. The government
fulfilled the conditions for Board presentation by ensuring strict compliance with existing
regulations in the issuance of new licenses and the renewal of existing licenses, the establishment
of a process to revoke those in violation, and the initiation of a process to reduce the annual
allowable cut to a sustainable level. The government fulfilled the second tranche condition with



- 14 -
the establishment of the Forest Management Unit under the Forestry Division of the Department
of Forestry, Environment and Conservation with competent staff in adequate numbers. It
allocated an amount of funds for the Unit in FY 2000 equal to that in FY1999, however actuals
fell below the budgeted amount and adversely impacted the Forestry Department's operations.
Finally the government had submitted to Parliament a Forest Bill acceptable to IDA, but the Bill
is currently being reviewed by the new government. The new Forest Bill was designed to bring
the best practices in sustainable management of forests to the Solomon Islands and delays in
reaching a decision on its implementation have been a major setback. Before the SAC, harvest
rates were 2.5 to 3 times the sustainable level, but these had begun to come down due to lower
foreign demand and improving forestry practices. Recently, however, harvest rates have started
to rise rapidly, and owing to a lack of budgetary resources, monitoring of forestry activity has
weakened considerably.
4.2.13. The SIAC government removed all remissions associated with the timber industry and
discontinued the granting of any remissions as called for by the SAC. However, as discussed
earlier, the new government has started the practice once again with less transparency in the
granting process, justifying it with the crisis circumstance.
Private Sector Development.
4.2.14. The SAC supported the stimulation of private sector development and created conditions
favorable for a supply response. The Investment Board established a reasonable time for
investment approvals (no more than 4 weeks); so did the Registrar General for the time required
for investment registration. As part of the condition for Board presentation, the government
identified tracts of underutilized government land for leasing to private interests.
4.2.15. For a very small open economy with a pressing need for private capital, a key ingredient
of the reform program was the removal of a cumbersome investment approval mechanism that
creates considerable uncertainty for the potential investor. The SAC thus required the conversion
of the Investment Board into an Investment Promotion Authority, including adoption of required
legislation and procedures within the Department of Commerce, Industry, Employment, and
Tourism for simplified investment approvals. However, this condition was not complied with, as
reported by the supervision mission, jeopardizing the road map toward privatization and
encouragement for private investors to participate.
Poverty Alleviation and Social Sectors
4.2.16. Under the overall action for the social sector, the government aims to ensure equitable,
efficient and quality basic health services, and to ensure improved education quality, efficiency,
access and utilization of services. In the health sector, the government effected full payments to
all provinces the approved allocations for January to April 1999 in the FY1999 budget for
provincial health services, wages, and malaria control, fulfilling the condition for Board
presentation.  Subsequently, the government increased the allocation for preventive health
services by 10 percent relative to the FY1999 budget, complying with the condition for the
second tranche release, according to the last supervision mission.



- 15 -
4.2.17. In education, the government fulfilled the Board presentation condition with the
preparation of a proposal for a unit-cost formula including methodologies for updating and
reviewing it on a systematic basis for the allocation of public funds for primary and secondary
education. However, the second tranche condition for the allocation of funds for the education
program based on this unit-cost formula in the FY2000 budget was not fulfilled. The objective
of the unit-cost formula was to shift budget funding to basic education, mainly primary
education. However, this formula was rendered inoperable due to the ethnic crisis as school
enrollment numbers were unavailable for the derivation of the unit-cost formula.
4.2.18. Finally, the SAC supported the preparation of a Poverty Assessment and the issuance of
the terms of reference of this assessment that was a condition for Board presentation. The
assessment was initiated and is ongoing. However, the ethnic crisis has created some uncertainty
in the implementation of this assessment as the focus of the government has been shifted
elsewhere.
4.3   Net Present Value/Economic rate of return.-
4.3.1. Not applicable.
4.4   Financial rate of return:
4.4.1. Not applicable.
4.5   Institutional development impact:
4.5.1. The SAC aimed to assist the government in building (and strengthening) sound and
efficient public institutions that were needed to support sustained recovery and economic growth,
private sector development, and sustainable exploitation of the country's forestry resources. This
operation helped to strengthen the central bank's supervision unit and the Department of
Forestry, Environment and Conservation in the management of forestry resources. The SAC also
supported the plan to rebuild the country's comprehensive accounting system which included the
plan to re-introduce reconciliation between ministry spending records and Treasury payments
records. Some ministries had speedily completed the reconciliation of their records with those of
the Treasury during the implementation of the SAC, thus contributing to the fulfillment of this
action plan and strengthening further the control and monitoring of public funds.
4.5.2. However, the political upheaval has negatively affected the development of sound and
efficient public institutions, especially in the Department of Forestry, Environment, and
Conservation that oversees the management of forestry resources. The negative impact on
institutional development is still unfolding and it is difficult for any accurate assessment.
5. Maior Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1   Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1. The SAC highlighted that ethnic tension was one of the risk factors in the implementation
of the program. As it turned out, the ethnic crisis was the key factor outside the control of the



- 16 -
government toward the end of the program. The security situation and the changed political,
social and economic environment complicated the implementation of the reform  program,
especially when the new government viewed the reform priorities to have been altered by the
crisis. This crisis has negatively affected the sustainability of the program and the economic
recovery supported by the SAC and led to the closure of the credit without the disbursement of
the second tranche.
5.2   Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1. Measures within the government control were laid out in the Letter of Development
Policy. Satisfactory progress was made with respect to the key actions that the government had
committed to undertake under this Credit during the first part of the program. The policy
dialogue between the Bank and the authorities on the key components of the SAC continued
during supervision missions to Solomon Islands.
5.2.2. On the negative side, the government did not complete the two major second tranche
conditions: the completion of the reviews of the NPF and the Development Bank and adoption
of action plans to implement the recommendations of these reviews; the government has not
carried the conversion of the Investment Board into an Investment Promotion Authority and the
adoption of required legislation and procedures.
5.2.3. Further, with the ethnic crisis, there have been some reversals of pre-Board conditions,
such as borrowing from the central bank to finance the budget deficit under the new government.
Remissions which were discontinued were granted again, with the crisis as the justification.
5.3   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1. The implementation of the SAC was overseen by the Policy and Structural Reform
Committee (PSRC) under the Prime Minister with four major technical task forces of officials.
The PSRC coordinated and monitored the implementation of the reform program and received
reports on accomplishments, problems, and adjustments from the four task forces. The four task
forces worked with Bank staff during the implementation of the program and carried out the
specified conditions for the SAC for the Board Presentation and subsequent measures to fulfill
the conditions for the second tranche release.
5.3.2. However, as the crisis took away the attention of the government and especially the Prime
Minister, the lack of leadership negatively affected the work of the Committee and its task forces
and led to the closure of the credit without the disbursement of the second tranche..
5.4   Costs and financing:
5.4.1. The credit was US$12 million, $7 million of which was disbursed as the first tranche at
effectiveness. The second tranche of $5 million was not disbursed as the project closed. The
interest rate on the credit was the standard IDA rate of 0.75 percent. The loan term is 40 years
with a grace period of 10 years.



- 17 -
6.    Sustainabilitv
6.1   Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1. The program supported by the SAC had a good beginning with the implementation of the
conditions for Board presentation and the government also made good progress toward fulfilling
the conditions called for in the second tranche release. Several years of dialogue with the
government contributed to a well-designed program supported by this Credit. The program was
strongly owned by the SIAC government, as proven by the solid performance under the first
tranche that surpassed the established targets and benchmarks.
6.1.2. However, the ethnic crisis, highlighted as one of the major risks of the program, has
negatively affected the overall implementation of the project. The overall reform program
therefore became unsustainable as the attention of the managers of the reform program was
diverted and in the new government's view the crisis had altered reform priorities. The costs of
the ethnic crisis and its aftermath have also contributed negatively to the sustainability of the
program despite good beginnings.
6.2   Transition arrangement to regular operations.
6.2.1. The current ethnic crisis has created uncertainty for the next step in the assistance of the
Bank to Solomon Islands' reform agenda. The Bank, however, stands ready to provide assistance
to the country once the government of the day has articulated its reform and expenditure
priorities and the peace is consolidated. In order to meet expenditures in health and education
made more urgent as a result of the conflict the Bank redirected some resources from existing
health and education projects to cover these requirements.
7.    Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1   Lending:
7.1.1. The Bank has maintained its long relationship with its counterparts in Solomon Islands
and played an important supporting role in the implementation of the reform program of the
client country. It has carried out an economic dialogue with the authorities for several years and
the SAC was the first structural adjustment operation carried out in the Pacific Islands other than
Papua New Guinea.
7.2   Supervision:
7.2.1. The Bank supervised the project with supervision missions led by staff from
headquarters. Bank staff helped the officials responsible for the program to implement the
conditions called for in the SAC, both prior to Board presentation and those for the second
tranche release.



-18-
7.3   Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1. The Bank has satisfactorily played a supportive role to the country through its continuing
economic dialogue with the authorities and responded to their request for help to implement the
country's reform program, along with other donor agencies.  The Bank provided timely
assistance to the country following the economic crisis that was the result of many years of poor
economic management and poor discipline in public finance, exacerbated by the East Asian crisis
of 1997.
7.3.2. The nature and magnitude of the reform program called for support from several
development partners. Given the thin capacity in the government agencies it was crucial for the
Bank to coordinate its activities closely with other development partners. This aspect of program
implementation was handled well by Bank staff and this helped minimize overlap and prevented
competing demands from straining the authorities' capacity.
Borrower
7.4   Preparation:
7.4.1. The government of the Solomon Islands played an active role in the preparation of the
Credit through the Policy and Structural Reform Committee under the direct supervision of the
Prime Minister and the sense of program ownership was very strong among the government
officials.
7.5   Government implementation performance:
7.5.1. The government implementation of the program was satisfactory until the intensification
of the ethnic crisis. A number of conditions for the second tranche release were met during the
reform period before the crisis. The supervision mission in February 2000 found that the
compliance with the SAC second tranche was largely on track despite the difficult situation
created by the ethnic crisis. With the escalation of the crisis in June 2000, the attention of the
CNURP govermment that took over from the previous SIAC government was diverted from the
program and reversed some of the policy measures already implemented, resulting in the closure
of the credit in December 2000 without the disbursement of the second tranche.
7.6  Implementing Agency:
7.6.1. The Policy and Structural Reform Committee maintained a continuing economic dialogue
with Bank staff. It coordinated and monitored the program under the direction of the Primre
Minister, and helped carry out most of the policy actions called for in the SAC, at the Board
presentation and also for the second tranche release.
7. 7   Overall Borrower performance.
7.7.1. The government performnance was considered satisfactory in the implementation of the
SAC, especially at the preparation and implementation of the program up to the ethnic crisis.
However, once the crisis happened, it faced pressures and difficulties with the prevailing security



- 19 -
situation which eventually diverted the attention of the responsible officials, resulting in the non-
compliance of two conditions for the second tranche release.
8.    Lessons Learned
8.1.  The major lessons from the SAC are:
*  A stable political environment is essential for macroeconomic and structural reforms. This
has been clearly demonstrated within the time frame of the SAC. The government of
Solomon Islands had made good progress in its economic reform program during the
initial period of relative political stability, but its attention was diverted once the political
environment deteriorated with the intensification of the ethnic crisis.
*  Effective donor coordination is crucial in small island states with limited capacity.
Capacity to implement structural reforms is extremely thin in small states and can easily
be overwhelmed by the relatively large number of donors. It is therefore critical that
donors coordinate their activities closely and minimize duplication of efforts that over
stretches government capacity. This issue was handled well in both the design and
implementation of the SAC in the Solomon Islands.
*  Assessing the degree of risk in a country with diverse ethnic groups is critical but
extremely difficult. Even though the Bank knew and highlighted the risk due to ethnic
tensions in the appraisal report, it was not possible to gauge the depth of these tensions
and the intensity of the crisis surprised everyone. In the Solomon Islands, these risks have
set back progress made by reform and stabilization efforts. Future reform efforts could
include measures that help address the root causes of the crisis, i.e., uneven regional
development in a multi-ethnic country.
*  Counterpart quality and commitment are key to success. The presence of capable and
committed policymakers and implementers is a prerequisite to a successful program. In
the Solomon Islands, the commitment of the Prime Minister was key to the preparation
and initial implementation of the structural reforn program.
* Close working relations between the Bank and government counterparts improve the
quality of Bank assistance. Continuity of Bank staff working on Solomon Islands
contributed to a fruitful policy dialogue between the Bank and the authorities.
9.    Partner Comments
9.1   Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1.1  Two contributions were received from the government, both of which are presented
below. The Ministry of Finance was the Bank's main counterpart ministry for the SAC.
However, the key counterpart official (from the Ministry of Finance) from the preparation stage
of the SAC, through its implementation and closure, was subsequently assigned to the newly
formed Ministry of Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment in early 2001. The first
contribution is from this new Ministry. The second contribution was received from the
Department of Development Planning. No contribution was received from the Ministry of
Finance.



- 20 -
Attachment I: Government Comments - Part 1
SOLOMON ISLANDS GOVERNMENT
Minity of Economic Reform & Structural Adjustment
P.O. Box 1S50. Honiara, Solomoin Islands
Ptifm<ie: (67 27752              Tekqbon.;  (677) 2753
Lev184ii, cmL zua14o                               Rep  MERMA/4
14 MapUWeV                                         Pat 1S161200l.
"MNEY NSW 2000,
AUST?RALIA
Pta*- Vooe4
I wCtkn 7- refew ttr-yow leiw rardzthe CIC1 fow SAC Credit (3252 -SOL)
date&ddJ, 14 2001 t  w        a4#i4S4
WG ,iF*48powt +tc4{*afo*,9* i*-' Oame ppiruowIfLr a"acaww*
aW40VWftt J'*tCreAi WWOVi.t pPFYdOUA4, i   A49 ~W0VthCM&CvsX.J
m.*ey of csiwirfowd   nAarAdWnut
Cc4 PC-rIMA.W,t S"retay, 4ivrt of   oa~~.
Ccc,S                  Mi*4tay of p 4uwxef



- 21 -
World Bank Structural Adjustment Credit to Solomon Islands
The World Bank/international Development Association Credit to the Solomon
Islands was arranged for a purpose. This was to enable the Solomon Islands
Government to restore macroeconomic stability, and to put the economy back on to a
viable and sustainable path to growth and development through a series of policy
actions that the Government had agreed with the World Bank. The policy actions
formed an integral part of the Government's Policy and Structural Reform Program.
This brief report outlines the Government's assessment of the Credit the first tranche of
which was redeemed in July 1999. It also provides some views on the role of the World
Bank and the administration of the loan from the conception phase to the
implementation phase.
Assessment of the Credit
The Credit was most appropriate. It was arranged against a background of serious
imbalances in the economy. Government was unable to pay its bills or service its debts
and was accumulating huge debt arrears. Also, the financial system was stressed with
the securities market having collapsed. Inflation was double digit and the balance of
payments position weak. Consequently business and public confidence in the economy
was low.
Furthermore, the Credit enabled the Government to achieve the purpose for which
the Credit was negotiated. By the end of 1999, though the economy had contracted
following on from the effects of the East Asian crisis and the simmering effects of the
ethnic conflict, the Government's reform program was impacting positively on the
important economic indicators. Inflation had declined to 8 percent, the balance of
payments position showed an overall surplus, and the external reserves were at more
than three months of import cover. Also, Government finances were brought under
control: with arrears drastically reduced, Government's debts normalized, and the
overall deficit was reduced to less than 3 per cent of GDP. The tragedy is that the
ethnic conflict and the consequent policy focus of the current Government on the peace
process had the unfortunate consequence of reversing some of the positive
developments.
Role of the World Bank
The prerequisites of a successful reform program to which the Credit was linked
were there: strong ownership by the Government of the reform program. But without
donor assistance, the reform program would not have made the achievements noted
above. The role of the World Bank was useful not only as far as the Credit and the
design of the reforms and policy actions are concerned, but also in influencing the
donor community and the private sector to support the program.



- 22 -
Administration of the Credit
It is quite noticeable that despite the distance from Washington D.C., and the time
differences, the effort by the World Bank to try to understand and to be responsive to
the needs of the country. This responsiveness and understanding is reflected in the
form of excellent World Bank staff who worked with the Solomon Islands Government
on the reform program, and on the coordination of the Credit in conjunction with IMF
and other donors.
Was it possible for the World Bank to anticipate the magnitude of the conflict and
the turn of events over the last few months, and so may be stop the release of the first
tranche or re-design the reform program? The answer to this question is in the
negative: the events took everyone by surprise including the Solomon Islands
Government.



- 23 -
Attachment II: Government Comments - Part 2
SOLOMON ISLANDS GOVERNMENT
DEPARTMENT OF DEIVELOPMEIVTPLANNING
P.O. BOX G30, HONIARA
Tel. (677) 38255/56/57/58, Fax no: (677) 38259; email: kudu(mnpd.gov.sb
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
CONTRIBUTION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SOLOMON ISLANDS
Introduction
1.    The Government of Solomon Islands is in agreement with the Bank's judgment that the
structural adjustment program 1997-2000 had a good beginning with the implementation of the
conditions for Board presentation and of those covering the first half-period of the agreed upon
programme, when Government surpassed the established benchmarks and targets under the first
tranche. The Bank also rightly concluded that Government had made good progress towards
meeting the conditions called for in the second tranche release ( but which, in the end, were not
fully met, and the second tranche was cancelled). Your positive judgement, if put in a longer-
term perspective, reveals remarkably good Government performance with the implementation of
the structural reform agenda in Solomon Islands (recognising that this was only the- second
Structural Adjustment operation of the Bank in the Pacific, and the first in the Pacific Island
countries with their particularities). The Bank is also right in saying that several years of
intensive dialogue between Bank staff and Government had contributed towards a well-designed
programme which was strongly owned here.
2.    While the Government also agrees with the Bank's judgment that the ethnic crisis
negatively affected the implementation of the second half of the project - as the attention of
Government and reform managers had to shift to the pursuit of peace, political reconciliation and



- 24 -
re-integration of displaced citizens - Government does not agree with the Bank's judgment that
"therefore, the overall reform programme became unsustainable". It was this judgment - which
Government believes not to have been correct, taken hastily and having been reflective of short-
term views only - which led to th. decision not to release the Second Tranche. Government
believes that a more appropriate judgment by the Bank would have been that the programme had
been temporarily interrupted and that indeed there had been setbacks with the programme, but
that the Government's basic approach to long-term economic reform was unchanged and that
therefore, while there was no case for Government for Government to request the disbursement
of the Second Tranche, there was no case either for the Bank to cancel the outstanding balance of
Credit 3252-SOL). This would have left the Bank and the Government with the means to resume
the Economic Reform Programme when progress had been made with political reconciliation,
peace building and re-integration.
Reconstruction and Economic Reform
3.    On 5th June 2000 a longer-term but fast growing internal ethnic conflict culminated in the
outbreak of severe violence in Solomon Islands which had a deep and far-reaching impact on the
economic, social and political situation in the country. In short, the violence caused extensive
damage to transport infrastructure, schools, water supply and sanitation systems, central and
provincial government buildings, and health centers on the island of Guadalcanal and in nearby
provinces. The damage inflicted on the country's economic and social infrastructure - estimated
at US$30-35 million, equivalent to 10-15 percent of GDP - disrupted economic activity in
several areas of the country and placed a severe strain on the delivery of government services.
But equally - if not more serious - was the effect of the crisis on the productive operations of the
private sector which in key areas of Solomon Islands came to a total halt as a result of assets
destruction, which contributed to a massive decline in formal employment, a halving of exports
and a fall in GDP in the year 2000 which is estimated at over 20 percent for that year. Not
surprisingly, as the productive base of the Solomon Islands eroded, the Government's revenue
base was severely affected as well, so that it became impossible for Government to maintain its
economic and social service levels, let alone to meet the financial urgencies which the economic
and political crises generated. Neither was the Government able - as it is not now - to service its
debt obligations, whether external or domestic. The financial position of several key public
undertakings such as SIWA and SIAE also deteriorated alarmingly, to the point where the
uninterrupted supply of their services can no longer be assured. This is particularly so for the
supply of electricity which puts the Solomon Islands economy at extremely high risk.
4.   In short, instead of being able to raise investment and accelerate economic growth in
Solomon Islands, the Government's strategy for the remainder of 2000 and for the year 2001 had,
and will in future, have to be redirected towards the achievement of peace and political
reconciliation, the restoration of social sector delivery, infrastructure repair and towards
revitalising production and export activity. This redirection of strategy has now been completed
and inter alia finds expression in the Peace Budget for 2001, most particularly in the
developmental portion of that Budget and in the Government's decision to relaunch the
Economic and Structural Reform Programme. To support the Government in implementing its
revised strategy, external assistance to Solomon Islands is now being redirected as well, so as to



- 25 -
make it more fully congruent with the Government's new challenges of political reconciliation,
infrastructure reconstruction and economic and social revitalisation. Several key development
partners of Solomon Islands have already responded to the Govemment's revised priorities,
including the European Union and several major bilateral partners.
5.      The attached Tables 1 and 2 illustrate that the crisis which has afflicted Solomon Islands
in the past 18 months constitutes a dramatic setback which wiped out all the progress which the
country has made in economic development over the past ten years, and which - unless that
setback is reversed as a matter of urgency - threatens to also undermine the progress that was
made with human development in that period:
per capita income in the country has fallen by more than one half, and is currently below
US $500, less than the income levels that were attained in Solomon Islands more than ten
years ago; Solomon Islands is now included in the group of Least-Developed Countries
whereas it was a Middle-Income Country before;
*   exports have fallen by more than one-half and reached only US $69 million in 2000,
down from US $150 million in 1999; also, last year's exports were lower than the value
of Solomon Islands' exports ten years ago; it is not unlikely that 2001 exports may turn
out even lower than those recorded in the year 2000;
*   the fall in national production, income, exports and, inevitably, in employment has not as
yet been arrested, and it may well be that GDP this year will be another 10 percent
smaller than what it was in the year 2000.
TABLE 1. Solomon Islands - Key National Accounts and External Financing Data, 1990-2001
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998    1999   2000   2001
Bdgt
Req.
GDPatCurrentMarket       500    590    715    829    973   1,250  1,461   1,612  1,728   1,739  1,412   1,130
Prices (SBD Min)
ExtemalFinancing         132      88    117    139    198    151    200    158    360    3.19    213    699
(SBD Min)
of which: Grants (inc. TA)    119  78    103    121    180    126    191    149    271        272    136    480
of which: External Loans  13      10      14     18      18     25       9      9      89      47      77    219
Disbursements (Gross)
External Financing        26      15     20      17     20      12      14   10.0    21        18      15     62
as % of GDP
AverageExchangeRate     2.37   2.62   2.86   3.18   3.29   3.41    3.55    3.73    4.82    5.06   5.10   5.30
(SBD/US$)
GDP at Current Market    211    225    250    261    296    367    412    432    359          344    277    213
Prices (US$ Mln)
Extemal Financing         56      34     41      43     60      44     56      42      75      63      42    132
in US$ Min
Population (thousands)   313    323    333    343    353    364    375    386    398          409    420    432
GDPperCapita             670    700    750    760    840  1,010  1,100  1,120    900          840    660    490
External Financing per   179    105    123    125    170    121    136    109    188          154    100    305
Capita
Growth in Real GDP (%)    0.9    2.7   10.6    2.4    5.3   10.0    3.5   -2.4    1.2    -1.4  -10.0  -10.0
GrowthinNominalGDP        9.5   17.9   21.3   11.6   17.4   28.5   16.9   10.3    7.2          0.6  -18.8  -20.0
(%)
RealGDPatMarketPrices    697    716    793    812    855    941    974    951    962          949    854    683
(SBD Mln)
Source: Government of Solomon Islands; including data published in: IMF-Solomon Islands- Recent Economic Developments,
5th January, 2001. Data for 1990-1992 and for 2000 and 2001 from: Budget for 2001; Population Data from 1999 Census.



- 26 -
TABLE 2: Solomon Islands - Key External Financing Data, 1990-2001
1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
Bdgt
Reqg
ValueofExports(US$Mln)     73    86   105   129   144   168   162   174   141   150    69
External Financing (US$ Mn)  56    34    41    43    60    44    56    42    75    63    42   132
Total Extemal Resources   129   120   146   172   204   212   218   216   216   213   111
ExtemralFinancingas%ofTotal    43    28    28    25    29    21    26    19    35    60    61
Extemal Resources
Valueof Inports(US$Mln)    97   116   114   137   142   154   151   209   147   140    92
Extemal Financing (US$ Mln)  56    34    41    43    60    44    56    42    75    63    42   132
PercentageofinIports Financed  58    29    36    31    42    29    37    20    51    45    46
by External Financing (%)
Source: Ministry of Finance, CBSI.
6.     The task of rebuilding Solomon Islands' fractured economy is immense. Thus, the
objectives of the Peace Budget for 2001 go beyond the maintenance of peace and restoration of
law and order, and include rebuilding the country's destroyed social and economic infrastructure,
restoring its productive base by bringing the export-focused private sector back to life, resettling
those families that were forced to relocate inside the country and bringing the country's internal
and external finances back in balance. For the coming two years, the full restoration of peace and
economic reconstruction is the Government's key objective. If that can be achieved, and if the
economic decline of Solomon Islands can be arrested in this period, Solomon Islands could
thereafter regain the success which the Government had with economic growth in the 1980-1997
period. In these circumstances, two years from now Solomon Islands could regain economic
growth of some 5-6 percent per annum, a rate that would eventually lead to sustained
improvements in per capita incomes and in the human condition in the country. This requires, of
course, putting progressively in place stronger macro-economic and sector policies, improving
the management and administration of the Government's finances and investment programmes,
developing merchandise exports, and mobilising additional domestic resources. Government
recognises this and has recently approved the Inception Report of the new Ministry of Ministry of
Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment which outlines a revised Action Programme for the
Economic and Structural Reform Programme.
7.     Clearly, the year 2001 is the key year in which Government has to concentrate on
furthering political reconciliation, initiation of infrastructure reconstruction, restoration of social
services, the revitalisation of the private sector and, thus, economic growth and the normalisation
of its external debt position. At the same time, Government has launched the preparations for the
General Elections of late 2001 which will demand much management attention of Government,
while reducing its political ability to take difficult and controversial economic policy reform
measures. Put together, these are immense economic and political management tasks which can
only be accomplished successfully if the Government can be assured of the fullest possible
support of the external donor community.



- 27 -
8.    On 26h February, 2001 the Government of Solomon Islands held a High-Level
Consultative Meeting with its development partners and clarified its position with respect to its
development strategy and the external support that would be needed for its implementation. At
that Meeting it was agreed that donors would review their assistance programnmes in the light of
the new challenges facing the Government of Solomon Islands. Since the High Level
Consultative Meeting of February 2001, the Government took a number of steps designed to put
its revised strategy into effect. These include the following actions:
- Government presented to Parliament the Peace Budget for 2001, and obtained its
approval;
- vigorous measures were taken to mobilise resources domestically: as a result, and
despite the economic turndown in the country, during the first quarter of 2001
Government revenue reached $59 million, as compared to $47 million that was
budgeted; it is expected that these measures would permit Government revenues to
reach their budgeted level, despite the lag in the collection of non-tax revenues;
- recognising that public expenditure growth needed to be curtailed, special measures
were taken to stabilise the payroll costs, reduce the number of special constables,
scale down the size of overseas missions, suspend overtime pay and allowances of
civil servants, and freeze new commitments for the construction and repair of
Government buildings; however, the effect of these measures is limited which
explains the earlier mentioned emergence of massive payment arrears;
-  Government made preparations for relaunching its Economic and Structural Reformn
Program, including the Public Service Reform Programme, by endorsing the recently-
distributed Inception Report of the Ministry of Economic Reform and Structural
Adjustment;
- despite the existing difficult unemployment situation, Government took the decision
to continue with its retrenchment programme;
- Government allowed Telekom to introduce a temporary service restoration surcharge;
- contrary to wide expectations, with financial help of the European Union SIWA
succeeded in restoring the supply of drinking water to the 25,000 residents of Honiara
that had been without service since June 2000 when the treatment plant had been
destroyed by militants;
- Government embarked on a minor programme of road rehabilitation in Honiara;
- Govermment took the final steps that permitted the launching of the ADB-supported
US $10 million Post-Conflict Emergency Rehabilitation Project;
- Government initiated the preparations for the General Elections of 2001.



- 28 -
9.    Since the High-Level Consultation of February 2001, the international donor community
also began to respond to the new challenges that were discussed at that Meeting. Several
important emergency responses include:
- the ADB declared its US $10 million Post-Conflict Emergency Rehabilitation Loan
effective on a 100% cost-sharing basis;
-  AusAID agreed to provide $4 million in special support of the health sector;
- the UNDP finalised its discussions with Government on the key Reconciliation and
Re-integration Project;
- the Government of New Zealand - as well as other donors - indicated their readiness
to assist in financing the full cost of the General Elections; and
- the European tentatively agreed to re-allocate a significant portion of its Stabex 1998
Programme towards urgent infrastructure reconstruction needs, social sector
restoration and governance strengthening and political reconciliation;
- the World Bank also reviewed its projects in Solomon Islands which led to increased
emphasis given to meeting immediate needs.
10.   While these are all very welcome indications of support, they need to be seen in the
context of the Peace Budget 2001 which has been based on a projection of revenues that are 40
percent below those which the economy would normally generate, while recurrent expenditures -
in particular those in the social sectors - have had to be restored to the levels of 1999, so as to
enable Government to resume minimally adequate social service delivery. To deal with an
otherwise unmanageable fiscal deficit, the financing plan for the Peace Budget thus included an
amount for external financing for 2001 that was double the external financing inflows received in
2000. The adequacy of the external financing contribution by donors is also to be seen in the light
of the relentless decline of the foreign exchange reserves of the Central Bank of Solomon Islands
which continue their fall to virtually unsustainable levels of less than one-month of import
coverage, and in the light of the Government's current difficulties to service its external debt,
including to the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank, as well as to domestic
commercial banks.
Conclusion
11.  If the World Bank had not taken its regretful decision to cancel the US $5 million Second
Tranche of the Structural Adjustment Credit by the end of 2000, it would now have been in a
position to join other development partners of Solomon Islands and could have contributed much
more meaningfully than it is doing now to the financing of economic and political reconstruction
in Solomon Islands, as well as to facilitate the meeting of external debt service obligations. This
could have enabled Government to pursue its objectives of economic and political reform with



- 29 -
more vigour and with more success and could, in conjunction with further financial support
being provided by other donors, have more effectively helped Government in the pursuit of its
programmes for the year 2001. It would also have helped to avoid the emergence of significant
external debt service arrears which is complicating the attraction of new external financing at a
time when our external reserves are at a dangerously low level and when exports are only
sufficient to finance one-half of the country's import bill.
Ratings
12.  In the light of the above, it should come as no surprise that Government is not in
agreement with Bank's ratings of the Borrower's and the Bank's performance.



- 30 -
9.2    Cofinanciers: There were no cofinanciers.
9.3    Other partners (NGO/private sector): There were no other partners.



- 31 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT No. 3252-SOL)
Annex Tables
Annex  1:   Key Performance Indicators ................................................                       32
Annex 2:   Project Costs and Financing ................................................                       32
Annex 3:   Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................                         33
Annex 4:   Bank Inputs ................................................ 33
Annex 5:  Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs
of Components ................................................                                34
Annex 6:   Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................... .......... 35
Annex 7:   Policy Matrix ................................................                                     36



- 32 -
ANNEX 1: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PLEASE SEE ANNEX 7 FOR THE COMPLETE POLICY MATRIX
ANNEX 2: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(US$ million)
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost by Component
Total Project Costs        12.00           12.00           100
Total Financing Required      12.00           12.00           100
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component   Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
Bank  Govt. CoF.  Bank  Govt.  CoF.  Bank  Govt.  CoF.
BOP      12.00               12.00               100.00  0.00   0.00



- 33 -
ANNEX 3: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Costs     Benefits     NPV      ERR (%)
Not Applicable                  N/A
ANNEX 4: BANK INPUTS
a) Missions
Stage of Project Cycle    No. of Persons and Specialty     Performance Rating
(e.g., 2 Economics, 1 FMS,   Implementation   Development
etc.)                Progress        Objective
Month/Year          Count        Specialty
Identification/Preparation                                   S               S
November 1998           6     2 Economists, I
Public Sector
Specialist, I
Financial Specialist,
I Forestry
Specialist, I Private
Sector Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation                                       S               S
February 1999          3       2 Economists, I
Financial Specialist
Supervision
February 2000          3     3 economists               S                S
April 2000            1     1 finance analyst          S               U
November 2000           3     3 economists               U               U
ICR               2         2 economists            U               U
No mission
b) Staff
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. Staff Weeks                $ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                   18.4                       50.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                        14.1                       37.7
Supervision                                  11.3                      69.8
Sub Total                                    43.8                      157.8
ICR (est.)                                    5.0                       12.5
TOTAL                                        48.8                      170.3
Note: 1. Figures do not include Trust Funds.



- 34 -
ANNEX 5: RATINGS FOR ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES/OUTPUTS OF COMPONENTS
(H - High; SU = Substantial, M = Modest, N = Negligible, NA = Not Applicable)
Note: Given the situation in the Solomon Islands during the implementation of the SAC, this table shows
the ratings based on the outcome after the outbreak of the crisis. Please see Section 4 for a complete
discussion and the rational for the rating and the distinction between the pre-crisis period and the post-
crisis period.
Policy                          High      Substantial   Modest    Negligible      Not
Macro policies                                            X
Sector Policies                                                                   X
Physical                                                  X
Financial                                                 X
Institutional Development                                 X
Environment                                               X
Social
- Poverty Reduction                                      X
- Gender                                                                          X
- Other (Please specify)
Private sector development                                            X
Public sector management                                  X
Other (Please specify)



- 35 -
ANNEX 6. RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory
6.1 Bank            Hiehlv satisfactory      Satisfactorv          Unsatisfactorv            HiLIv
ierformance                                                                               Unsaisfactorv
Lending                                        El                     Z
Supervision                                    ElI  3                 1                     [
Overall                  L                        L                   LI 
6.2 Borrower        HighIy satisfactory      Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory            HighIy
performance                                                                               Unsatisfactory
Preparation              LI                                             L                    [II
Government
implementation                ]
performance
Implementation
agency                                            X
performIance 
OveralJ)|                                            



ANNEX 7: SOLOMON ISLANDS - MATRIX OF POLICYACTIONS
Objectives/         Actions Taken Before end 1998                  Actions Taken Before Board Presentation                                 Status of Actions at the Closing of
Strategies                               I                                                                                               I the Credit
OMNIBUS CONDITION: MAINTENANCE OF A SOUND MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK, CONSISTENT WITH THE OBJECTIVES OF THE PROGRAM, DETERMINED ON THE BASIS OF INDICATORS AGREED TO BY THE
BORROWER AND THE ASSOCIATION
A. MACROECONOMIC STABILIZATION
Objective:
No net borrowing by Government from the domestic financial system. The
To   restore   and  Devalued Si dollar by 20 percent in December 1997  fiscal deficit funded by concessional finance only. Privatization proceeds  The Government salaries and wage bill for
maintain  a  sound  and a further 6 percent in 1998.              directed to repaying arrears or reducing debt.                           FY1999 exceeded SBD 150 million. (actual
macroeconomic                                                                                                                              SBD 152 million due to police costs related to
environment    by  Reversal of tightened limits on automatic foreign                                                                       the ethnic crisis.
sharply lowering the a xchange transactions.                      Domestic debt rescheduling program established with the commercial banks and
iscad n   reIcie ant                                              the National Provident Fund(NPF) with a conversion of at least 50 per cent of
prices to enhance the  Achieved budget balance in 1998 (excluding arrears  the treasury bills outstanding into longer-term bonds. First tranche of the Central
prices to enhance the  reduction) and utilized a substantial portion of the  Bank advance to the Government securitized by end May 1999. Maintenance of  The cost of retrenchment of public servants not
Solomon   Islands'  ADB loanfundsfor arrears reduction.           debt service payments on interest arrears as formulated in January 1998.  to exceed SBD10 million.
intemational        Domestic debt rescheduling program initiated in  Furnishing to the Association monthly reports for January through April 1999
competitivencss.    January 1998 and domestic debt service payment  showing domestic debt service payments.
commitments fulfilled in 1998. National Provident
Fund arrears securitized thTough issue of longer-                                                                     No net borrowing  by Government from the
term bonds.                                                                                                                    rrowina
Monthly Monetary Monitoring Committee formed                                                                          domeste financial system in FY19e   (actual)
and TCSPOnSibiC for economic, monetary and debt                                        ~~~and the FY2000 Budget-ovwver ther-e was
and i esponsible for economic, monetary and debt                                                                      borrowing from the central bank in FY2000 to
issues.                                                                                                               meet expenditures.
Privatization proceeds in FY19ff were used for
repaying arrears, and following the clearance
of public arrears, to further reduce debt, or
finance the public sector investment program.
Monthly report for the period May through
October 1999 to show that Government met all
domestic debt service commitments under the
new plan and meeting all external debt service
commitments (excluding those in dispute or
under discussion).
36



ANNEX 7: SOLOMON ISLANDS -MATRIX OF POLICYACTIONS
Objectives/          Actions Taken Before end 1998                 | Actions Taken Before Board Presentation                                    Status of Actions at the Closing of
Strategies                                                                                                                                  T  the Credit
B. PUBLIC FINANCES
Objective:
To improve the fiscal
balance as well as  Establishment of a three year Medium  Term   FY1999 Budget expenditure outturns within Budget appropriations on a pro-  Increased budgetary allocationsfor operations
service delivery by  Development Strategy and Public Sector Investment  rata basis, and Phase I of the public service restructuring involving 430  and maintenance in Head 211 (Transport,
concentrating        Program.                                        retrenchments is completed. Improvement in customs duty collections by lOper  Works, Communication, and Aviation) by 10
government                                                           cent above the FY1999 Budget estimate on a pro rata basis (SBD48.million by  per cent in nominal terms in the FY2000
expenditure in core                                                  end April 1999).   Public sector employer and employee contribution   Recurrent Budget, relative to the FY1999
areas, directing donor                                               commitments to the NPF met as of end April 1999. Domestic interest cost  Recurrent Budget
funds also to these                                                  arrears repayment schedule met. No net increase in arrears after allowing for
core   areas;  and  Reduction in payroll charges achieved in 1998.  privatization proceedsfor reducing such arrears.
enhancing       the                                                                                                                            The 1999 phase of the action plan to rebuild the
expcency        of                                                                                                                            government       accounting      framework,
expenditure     by                                                                                                                            reconcciiations  between  program   ministry
improving      the  Establishment of 4 Taskforces for (i) public   Action plan commenced for the rebuilding of a comprehensive government  spending  records  and  Treasury  payment
accounting     and  finance and rehabilitation; (ii) public service   accounting system so that the Department of Finance can establishfirm data on  records achieved was prepared; and prepared
budget  framework  reform; (iii) medium-term  development strategy;   actual expenditure by budget head together with basic controls to prevent  action plans acceptable to the Association for
and  the  economic  and (iv) private sector development.             unauthorized use of funds, including a plan to re-introduce reconciliations  audits of government accounts by the Auditor
composition     of                                                                                                                  clain
expenditure.                                                         between program ministry spending records and Treasury payment records.   General's Office andfor review ofsuch audits
expenditure.                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by the Public Accounts Committee.
Secured extemal technical assistance to begin
public service reform, including the downsizing of
the service and redundancy package and customs
capacity building.   ADB  US$25 million loan   NOTE: ONLY THE CONDITIONS IN  BOLD ITALICS IN ALL PAGES
confirmed with US$15 million first tranche due for  ARE THE BINDING CONDITIONS FOR TRANCHE RELEASE.
release in late 1998.
NOTE: ONLY THE CONDITIONS IN
BOLD ITALICS IN ALL PAGES ARE THE
BINDING CONDITIONS FOR TRANCHE
Met domestic interest debt service commitments                                                                           RELEASE.
established in the January 1998 plan.
Initiated actions for a review of fisheries revenues.
Delivered   FY1999  budget  showing  higher
allocations to education and health, development
expenditures and debt service, and with no recourse
for financing from the domestic banking system.
37



ANNEX 7: SOLOMONISLANDS -MATRIXOFPOLICYACTIONS
Objectives/         Actions Taken Before end 1998                   Actions Taken Before Board Presentation                                | Status of Actions at the Closing of
Strategies         l                                             J                                                                         | the Credit                                  l
C. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Objective:
To restore financial  Bokolo bill yields increased to 5-8 percent, an open  Public announcement of:(i) Treasury bill auctions allowing the market to set  Treasury bill auctions regularly conducted and
sector   confidence,  tap system introduced and bill maturities increased  the price, and treasury bill rediscountfacility introduced with a penalty margin;  monetary policy operational.
ensure a sound and  to 12 months.  Central Bank call account rate  and (ii) phasing out of Bokolo bills. Minimum liquid assets ratio reduced in
safe financial system,  increased to 3 percent.                    line with the debt restructuring. Monthly Monetary Monitoring Meetings held    Completed external review of the Development
and enhance the role                                                                                                                        Bank and the National Provident Fund; but
of  the  sector  in  Financial Institutions Bill (1998) enacted.   Ministerial directive issued in April 1999 under the Financial Institutions Act  action plans for the implementation of the
supporting sustained                                               (1998) to the Central Bank to apply prudential standards to the Development  recommendations of the reviews were yet to be
economic   growth.  Central Bank press releases on risks of pyramid  Bank, and Central Bank to establish a phased compliance plan for the  adopted
Restore     market  financial schemes.                             Development Bank.
driven interest rates.                                                                                                                      Quarterly liquidity forecasts of the banking
To avoid conflict as a shareholder and supervisor, the Central Bank has taken steps  system produced by the Central Bank.
for the disposal of its shares in the Development Bank. Terms of reference
acceptable to the Association have been issued for an extemal review of the loan
portfolio, risk management systems and corporate govemance framework of the
Development Bank.                                                       Specific actions put in place to deal with any
possible re-emergence of pyramid financial
Ministerial directive issued under the Financial Institutions Act (1998) to bring the  schemes through the implementation of the
NPF under the supervision of the Central Bank  Central Bank approval for an  Financial Institutions Act, or amnendnents to the
external portfolio and actuarial review of the NPF obtained with terms of reference  Act or new legislation, as necessary.
acceptable to the Association.
Central Bank agreed to upgrade and restructure the Banking Supervision and
Extension Unit to provide supervision for NPF and Development Bank, to
establish an on-site inspection capability for the non-bank financial institutions
particularly the larger credit unions, and to improve off-site analysis and
surveillance systems.
38



ANNEX 7: SOLOMONISLANDS - MATRIX OFPOLICYACTIONS
Objectives/          Actions Taken Before end 1998                 | Actions Taken Before Board Presentation                                7Status of Actions at the Closing of
Strategies         l                                                                                                                           the Credit
D. SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT
Promote             Introduced a Code of Practice for Logging.      Issue of new timber harvesting licenses and renewal of existing licenses was  Government  has   worked   on   (a)  the
economically   and                                                  made in strict compliance with existing regulations until: (a) the current Forest  implementation of the current Forest Division's
environmentally      Introduction in late 1997 of more stringent scrutiny  Division's review of all existing logging licenses and their allowable cut is  review of all existing logging licenses and their
sustainable growth in  of new  logging licenses, while existing logging  complete; (b) a process to revoke those in violation of license conditions is  allowable cut; (b) the establishment of a process
the Solomon Islands  licenses and technology agreements arc reviewed.    established; and (c) a consultative process of reducing the annual allowable cut  to revoke those in violation of license conditions;
by  enhancing  the                                                  to a sustainable level is initiated                                       and (c) initiate a consultative process of reducing
management of its                                                                                                                             the annual allowable cut to a sustainable level.
forest resources.
An outline of forest legislation prepared and   Presented to Cabinet the new draft Forest Bill which fully incorporates and   Established  a  government policy  regarding
presented to Cabinet. Cabinet has already approved  addresses sustainable forest management, promotes resource protection and  community forestry, that provides support and
the outline.                                   conservation, provides for equity of development benefits through improved in-  coordination with socially and economically
country resource rent capture, and makes adjustments to log licensing policies and  viable  eco-forestry  and  other  small-scale
procedures.                                                               sawmilling operations.
Removed all remissions associated with the timber industry and discontinue  Completed the review of the taxation and revenue
granting of remissions - in effect prior to the crisis.                  regime in the forestry industry, and formulated an
._____________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________    action plan.
Have begun to implement improved forest industry  Had in place: (i) externalfundingfor the Forest Management Unit, training in  (a) Forest Management Unit established under
monitoring by reactivating the Forest Management  the application of the Logging Code of Practice, and improvement of log export  the Forestry Division of the Department of
Project.                                       monitoring capabilities; and(ii)  the necessary counterpart funding in the  Forestry, Environment and Conservation with
budget.                                                                  competent staff in  adequate numbers; (b)
Funds allocated for the Forest Management
Unit in the FY2000 Recurrent Budget not less
than the amount allocated in the FY1999
Recurrent Budget; and (c) Forest Bill
acceptable to the Association submitted to the
Parliament.
39



ANNEX 7: SOLOMONISLANDS -MATRIXOFPOLICYACTIONS
Objectives/          Actions Taken Before end 1998                    Actions Taken Before Board Presentation                                     Status of Actions at the Closing of
Strategies                                                                                                                                        the Credit
E. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Objective:
To stimulate private  The frequency of holding investment approval  The average time for foreign investment approvals for projects not located in outer  No conversion of the Investment Board into an
sector  development  meetings has been increased to two per month.    provinces does not exceed four weeks by the Investment Board during January to  investment promotion  authority  including
so as to help achieve                                                 April 1999 and that registration by the Registrar General does not exceed four  adoption of required legislation and procedures
sustainable economic  Initiatives have been taken to reorganize the  weeks on average during the same period.                                    within the Department of Commerce, Industry,
growth  and  more  functions of the Foreign Investment Board in favor                                                                            Employment, and  Tourism  for simplified
rapid   employment  of promoting investment.                          Tracts of underutilized government land were identified for the purpose of  investment approvals, subject to compliance
creation   for  the                                                   leasing to private investors.                                              with given criteria
growing labor force.  Private Sector 'I'ask Force established and a report
Improve        the  on reform initiatives submitted to Government.                                                                               Establish a suitable policy framework  for the
investment  climate                                                                                                                              mining industry to ensure accountability in the
for local and foreign                                                                                                                            allocation of concessions to mining companies,
investment.                                                                                                                                     limit investor uncertainty and, therefore, risk
premiums, and to avoid a piece-meal approach.
40



ANNEX 7: SOLOMONISLANDS - MATRIXOFPOLICYACTIONS
Objectives/          Actions Taken Before end 1998                    Actions Taken Before Board Presentation                                     Status of Actions at the Closing of
Strategies                                                                                                                                      | the Credit
F. SOCIAL SECTOR - POVERTY ALLEVIATION
Objective:
Health-To   ensure  A comprehensive review of the health services.    Completed an initial draft of the structure of the reorganized Ministry of Health   Document and approve the new organizational
equitable,  efficient                                                 and Medical Services (MHMS) consistent with the public service reform program,  structure of the MHMS.
and  quality  basic   Development of a National Health Development  and present it for review by the Association.
health services.     Plan 1997-2001.                                                                                                             Increase  in  nominal terms  the  FY2000
Paid infull to all provinces the approved allocationfor January to April 1999 in   Recurrent Budget allocation for preventive
Case incidence rates for TB and Leprosy reduced to  the FY1999 budgetfor provincial health services, wages, and malaria control    health services* by 10 percent relative to the
less than I per 10,000 population.                                                                                         FY1999 Recurrent Budget.
Access to health service improved with 70% of rural                                                                        The allocation for the National Referral Hospital
communities within one hour walking distance of a                                                                          does not exceed 40 percent of the allocation for
health facility.                                                                                                           health in the FY2000 budget.
Incidence of malaria reduced to 160 per 1000 in                                                                            *Consists of (i) health education; (ii) malaria
1997 compared to over 400 per 1000 in 1992.                                                                                control; (iii) provincial health services; and (iv)
environmental health.
Education-To
ensure    improved   A brief outline of proposals and priorities of the   Completed an initial draft of an education sector plan that clearly indicates the   The allocation of funds for education in the
education    quality,  Department of Education and Human Resource   needs, priorities, strategies and long term investment programs (over the next 10   FY2000 recurrent budget for the respective
efficiency,   access  Development for the education sector are specified   years). The sector plan should in particular focus on curriculum reform, teacher  schools based on a unit-costformula acceptable
and  utilization  of  in the Statement of Policies, 1997-2001.       training, and development of leaming materials.                             to the Association has not been done due to the
services.                                                                                                                                        unavailability  of  the  school  enrollment
The need for rationalizing the funding flows for the   Prepared a proposal for  a unit-cost formula, including methodologies for  numbers as inputsfor the unit-costformula.
education sector has been agreed and a consultant  updating and reviewing it on a systematic basis, for the allocation of public
identified for the proposed financing study.   funds for primary and secondary education, taking into account the current
policies and range of quality standards in the schools.
The rapid unplanned expansion of Community High  Issued a directive that further construction of CHS would be strictly controlled,
Schools (CHS), without regard for recurrent costs  until all existing schools have been provided with adequate recurrent budgets,
and quality aspects, is slowing down.           teachers and learning materials.
Social Services-To                                                    Terms of reference acceptable to the Association issued for a Poverty   Poverty Assessment initiated.
ensure that specific                                                  Assessment, that wiUl help design appropriate social policies and programs to
human  development                                                    deal with poverty alleviation.
policies       and
programs are put in
place.
41



