Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3252 SOL
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
SOLOMON ISLANDS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 18, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3252 SOL 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1999, between SOLOMON ISLANDS (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Association has received a letter dated May 13, 1999, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and
WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries. 
(c)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(d)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”;
(e)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions”; 
(f)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(g)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Credit.”; and 
(h)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;  
(b)
“Development Bank” means the Borrower’s Development Bank as established 
by the Development Bank of Solomon Islands Act of 1977 [CAP 50]; 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 
1 and ending December 31;  
(d)
“Investment Board” means the Board established within the Borrower’s 
Department of Commerce, Industries, Employment and Tourism under the Act to Make 
Provision for the Promotion of Local and Foreign Investment of 1990 [CAP 142];  
(e)
“FY 1999 Budget” means the Borrower’s FY 1999 Budget as set out in the 
1999 Appropriation Act 1998 [No. 12 of 1998]; and 
Page  3
(f)
“National Provident Fund” means the Borrower’s Solomon Islands National 
Provident Fund as established by the Solomon Islands National Provident Fund Act, 1973 
[CAP 109].
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR8,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in United States dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account 
shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR5,200,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the Association shall 
have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
Page  4
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2009 and ending February 1, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2019, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Unites States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance
P. O. Box 26
Honiara, Solomon Islands
Telex:
(778) Bokolo HQP66320
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  6
written.
SOLOMON ISLANDS
By /s/ Rex Stephen Horoi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Klaus Rohland
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing
tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semi-precious stones,
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares
(including set gems)
Page  7
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party;  
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 
(d) of this Agreement
1.
Maintenance of a sound macro-economic framework, consistent with the objectives 
of the Program, as determined on the basis of indicators agreed to by the Borrower and 
the Association. 
2.
Expenditures on salaries for the Borrower’s public service employees in FY1999 
have not exceeded by more than 7% the amount allocated for such expenditures in the FY 
1999 Budget. 
3.
The Borrower has financed government expenditures in FY 1999 without net 
borrowing from the domestic financial system. 
4.
The Borrower has used the proceeds from its privatization of state-owned 
enterprises and joint ventures in FY 1999 for the repayment of its arrears and any 
remaining amounts for the reduction of its public debt and the financing of its public 
sector investment program. 
5.
The Borrower has completed, in a manner acceptable to the Association, the 
actions set out in the Borrower’s Accounting System Action Plan (as issued on March 
19,1999) to be taken in FY 1999. 
6.
The Borrower has prepared an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the 
audit of the Government accounts by the Auditor General’s Office and for the review of 
such audits by the Public Accounts Committee.
7.
The Borrower has caused to be carried out an external review of the Development 
Bank’s loan portfolio, risk management systems and corporate governance framework, and 
has adopted an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the implementation of 
the recommendations of the review. 
8.
The Borrower has caused to be carried out an external portfolio and actuarial 
review of the National Provident Fund and has adopted an action plan, acceptable to 
the Association, for the implementation of the recommendations of the review.
9.
The Borrower has: 
(a)
established a Forest Management Unit within the Forestry Division of the 
Department of Forestry, Environment and Conservation, with competent staff in adequate 
numbers; and  
Page  8
(b)
has submitted to Parliament a Forest Bill, acceptable to the Association. 
10.
The Borrower has converted the Investment Board into an investment promotion 
authority and has taken steps, acceptable to the Association, for the simplification 
of investment approvals, including issuance of relevant legislation and procedures.
11.
The Borrower has adopted a FY 2000 Budget that does not provide for net 
borrowing by the Government from the domestic financial system.
12.
The Borrower has adopted a recurrent FY 2000 Budget that: 
(a)
allocates amounts for operation and maintenance activities of the 
Ministry of Transport, Works, Communication and Aviation that exceed by at least 10% 
the amounts allocated for such activities in the recurrent FY 1999 Budget; 
(b)
allocates amounts for the operation of the Forest Management Unit within 
the Forestry Division of the Department of Forestry, Environment and Conservation,  
that  are  not  less  than the amounts allocated for such operation in the recurrent 
FY 1999 Budget; 
(c)
allocates amounts for preventive health services that exceed by at least 
10% the amounts allocated for such services in the recurrent FY 1999 Budget; and 
(d)
allocates amounts for education programs based on a unit cost formula 
acceptable to the Association.
