Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4491 
Project Name 
DRC Emergency Response to Mitigate Financial Crisis Impact 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General finance sector (50%); General education sector (20%); 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (15%); Oil 
and gas (15%) 
Project ID 
P115642 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF DRC 
Implementing Agency 
Government of DRC 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[] B   [X ] C   [ ] FI   [] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
December 31, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 23, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 26, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Following a decade of conflict, DRC has experienced important political and economic gains 
since 2001-02. On the political level, the 2006 general elections (legislative and presidential) 
took place through a process judged as largely free and fair. Since 2007, a broad coalition 
government has implemented policies following a set of five priorities underpinning the PRSP 
(good governance and peace consolidation, consolidation of macroeconomic stability and 
growth, access to social services, fight against HIV/AIDS, and promotion of community 
dynamics) in order to generate rapid growth and sustained development. As regards economic 
recovery, adequate monetary and fiscal policies addressed hyperinflation (500 percent in 2000) 
during 2001-04, and a PRGF program was implemented largely successfully during June 2002-
March 2006.  Although the PRGF program veered off track in mid-2006 during the period 
preceding 2006 the presidential election, the post-election government that took office in early 
2007 implemented adequate macroeconomic policies under a Staff-Monitored Program of the 
IMF.  
 
In spite of multiple challenges, growth has picked up significantly since 2002. During 2002-08 
average annual GDP growth was 6.6 percent, compared to -5.2 percent over 1991-2001, owing to 
rapid development in the mining, construction and transportation sectors, which all experienced 
double digit annual growth rates. Since September 2008, DRC’s economic prospects have 
sharply deteriorated as a consequence of the changing international environment resulting from 
the financial crisis. In addition, the country had to face a security and humanitarian crisis in its 
North Kivu province. The rapid collapse of the mining sector has overwhelmed its ability to 
address the economic consequences without external support. 
 
External sector and reserves. 
Rapidly deteriorating export revenues have had an immediate 
adverse impact on the balance of payments and forex reserves. Copper and cobalt prices declined 
Page  2
significantly, and a Bank mission to Lubumbashi found that as a result copper mining output in 
Katanga has been cut dramatically since September 2008. Small artisanal mines are closing 
entirely, and larger mines are sharply reducing investment programs and production. As a result 
copper production is now estimated to be 25 percent lower in 2008 than previously projected, 
with production cuts of up to 50 percent projected for 2009.  
 
As a result of the sharp decline in export revenues and expenditure pressures resulting from 
security spending and related humanitarian crisis for the Eastern part of the country, official 
gross foreign exchange reserves have declined from over US$200 million mid-year to US$60 
million on December 23, 2008, the lowest level since 2001. The decline in export revenues has 
also led to a drop in forex-denominated bank deposits. Since its peak in July, these forex deposits 
have dropped by US$70 million which contributed to a decline in banks’ foreign assets by some 
US$100 million, raising further pressures on the Congolese franc. The latter has slipped from 
503 franc to the US$ at end-2007 to 585 CF/US$ at end-November and 620 CF/US$ by end-
December 2008.  
 
Rationale for Proposed Bank Emergency Project.  
Without mitigation, the rapidly rising 
external and fiscal imbalances and lower growth above presented could have major economic 
and social impacts, threatening to overturn 7 years of progress in DRC. These impacts, which 
call for an emergency response, include: 
·
Disruption of economic activity as a result of severe foreign exchange shortages, lack 
of essential imported goods, and rapid depreciation of the Congolese Franc. Recent 
reserve and exchange rate movements underscore the seriousness of this threat.  
·
Severe cuts in basic social expenditure and investments if government is unable to 
mobilize support to fill the remaining financing needs and is forced to cut back 
spending under its cash budgeting system. The cuts could in particular affect wages 
and the transfers of resources to the provinces, in turn triggering teacher strikes 
(teachers comprise the majority of public servants) and force households to replace 
salary payments through high school fees. 
·
Inability to maintain basic services (water, electricity) if government does not honor 
its payment obligations to the service providers and the latter run out of cash. 
·
Serious economic and social dislocations resulting from the rapid rise in 
unemployment in the mining areas.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The project has two major objectives: (a) ensure the availability of critical imported goods and 
(b) protect the functioning of essential social services (teacher wages) and prevent the 
deterioration of financial situation of basic utility services (water & electricity). 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
·
Component 1.
 
Financing of imports of essential goods and commodities.  This will 
include foodstuff, construction materials, telecommunication equipment, and oil 
products.  
Page  3
·
Component 2
:
Financing of primary and secondary school teachers salaries. The 
component has been designed to first reimburse up to 70% of the teachers' salaries under 
retroactive-financing and then release the balance upon conclusive audit of the eligibility 
of salaries paid by the Government.  
 
·
Component 3.
 Financing of State water and electricity bills
.
State water and electricity 
consumption will be metered and certified before payment can take place, thus providing 
sufficient safeguard to control these payments.  
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Environmental Category is rated C. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact:  Franck Bousquet 
Title:  Sr. Financial Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473 0309 
Email:  Fbousquet@worldbank.org
 
