                 UPDATED PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)

                                                                            Report No.: AB4491
 Project Name                  DRC Emergency Project to Mitigate the Impact of the Financial
                               Crisis
 Region                        AFRICA
 Sector                        General finance sector (49%); General education sector (16%);
                               General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (20%); Oil
                               and gas (15%)
 Project ID                    P115642
 Borrower(s)                   GOVERNMENT OF DRC
 Implementing Agency           Unité de Coordination du Projet (UCOP)
 Environment Category          [ ] A [] B [X ] C [ ] FI [] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared             February 11, 2009
 Estimated Date of             January 27, 2009
 Appraisal Authorization
 Estimated Date of Board       February 26, 2009
 Approval


1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

Following a decade of conflict, DRC has experienced important political and economic gains
since 2001-02. On the political level, the 2006 general elections (legislative and presidential)
took place through a process judged as largely free and fair. Since 2007, a broad coalition
government has implemented policies following a set of five priorities underpinning the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (good governance and peace consolidation, consolidation of
macroeconomic stability and growth, access to social services, fight against HIV/AIDS, and
promotion of community dynamics) in order to generate rapid growth and sustained
development. As regards economic recovery, adequate monetary and fiscal policies have
addressed hyperinflation (500 percent in 2000) and a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) was satisfactorily implemented between June 2002 and March 2006. Although the
PRGF program ended in March 2006 without concluding the sixth review while the transitional
government was preparing for the 2006 presidential election, the situation was reversed by the
post-election government which implemented broadly satisfactory policies and reforms
notwithstanding periodic slippages under a series of IMF Staff-Monitored Programs.

Growth has picked up significantly since 2002. Average annual GDP growth was 6.7 percent
between 2002 and 2008 compared to -5.2 percent over the 1991-2001 period owing to rapid
development in the mining, construction and transportation sectors, which all experienced double
digit annual growth rates. However, since September 2008, DRC's economic prospects have
sharply deteriorated as a consequence of the changing international environment resulting from
the financial crisis which abruptly impacted the mining sector. The adverse impact of the shocks
on the balance of payments is intensifying. The steep drop in export prices is projected to lead to
53 percent decline in export receipts, mainly reflecting lower receipts from copper, cobalt, and
petroleum exports. Although overall imports are expected to decline in response to lower foreign

direct investment and slower economic growth, the rapid deterioration of the country's external
financial position threatens to lead to serious shortages of imported goods on the Congolese
markets, including petroleum products, food products, and construction materials. Shortage of
these goods would further undermine economic growth prospects and deepen the crisis impact,
including reducing the availability of food staples in larger cities. It could thereby potentially
reverse the achievements regarding peace and stability of the past years.

The proposed Project is fully consistent with the objectives of the Government's PRSP,
particularly Pillar 2 (Consolidating macroeconomic stability and economic growth) and Pillar 3
(Improving Access to Social Services and Reducing Vulnerability).

The Grant is being processed under the IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast Track Facility
approved by the Bank's Executive Directors on December 9, 2008. The Bank is joining the IMF
and other donors to offer immediate short-term relief from the impact of the crisis while the
government puts in place longer-term measures to adjust to the new external environment. The
Bank is uniquely positioned with its rapid response instrument (OP 8.00) to address urgent
financing requirements of DRC while leading at the same time early donor efforts.

2. Proposed objective(s)

The project objective is to help mitigate the immediate and severe impact of the global financial
crisis on DRC's economy by providing short term transitional support to fund critical imports
and maintain targeted essential services. The project has the three following components:

           ·   Component 1 (US$58 million). Financing of imports of essential goods and
           commodities. The government's program aims at protecting the functioning of key
           economic sectors by assuring the availability of critical imported goods. In particular,
           this component would finance imports by the private sector of goods and
           commodities detailed on a positive list and including food products, construction
           materials, telecommunication equipment, and petroleum and fuel products.

          ·    Component 2 (US$16 million). Financing of primary and secondary school
          teachers salaries. In particular, the proposed operation will finance one month of
          primary and secondary education teachers' salaries. This component will contribute to
          ensure continued provision of education services throughout the country.

         ·     Component 3 (US$26 million). Financing State water and electricity bills. By
         helping to cover part of the public utility bills, this component would prevent the crisis
         from aggravating the financial position of the national water utility (REGIDESO) and
         of the national electricity utility (SNEL) and causing services to deteriorate, thus
         jeopardizing on-going recovery efforts.

3. Safeguard policies that might apply
 Environmental Category is rated C.

4. Tentative financing
Source:                                               ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                      0
International Development Association (IDA)            100
                                               Total   100

5. Contact point
Contact: Franck Bousquet
Title: Sr. Financial Specialist
Tel: (202) 473 0309
Email: Fbousquet@worldbank.org

