                                           Documentof
                                       The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                            ReportNo: 47139-ZR




                                        PROJECTPAPER

                                             FORA

                                      PROPOSEDGRANT

                          INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR66.2MILLION
                              (US$lOO MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                           DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                            FOR AN


   EMERGENCY PROJECT TO MITIGATE THE IMPACT OF THE FINANCIAL CRISIS




                                        February 11,2009




Water andUrbanI1
Country DepartmentAFCC2
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bankauthorization.

   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange RateEffective 01/31/2009)


  CurrencyUnit = Franc Congolais (Fc)
        Fc 700 = US$1
         1US$ = SDR0.66171

          FISCALYEAR
     January1   - December31

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

                                                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                       Vice President:     Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                                     Country Director:     Marie-Francoise Marie-Nelly
                                       Sector Director     IngerAndersen
                                      Sector Manager:      Eustache Ouayoro
                                    Task Team Leader:      Franck Bouquet




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                      DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC OF CONGO
          EmergencyProjectto Mitigatethe Impactof the FinancialCrisis


                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                          Page



A. Introduction.,.......................................................................................... 1

B. Emergency Challenge.,     .............................................................................. 2

C Bank Response........................................................................................
 .                                                                                                          5

D. Appraisal ofProject Activities......................................................................     10

E. ImplementationArrangements andFinancing Plan..............................................               14

F. Project Risks andMitigation Measures..........................................................          19

G. Terms andConditions for Project Financing....................................................           21

Annex 1.Detailed Description ofProject Components............................................. 22

Annex 2.Results Framework andMonitoring.......................................................             43

Annex 3. Summaryof EstimatedProject Costs......................................................            45

Annex 4 .Financial Management andDisbursementArrangements..............................                    46

Annex 5.Procurement Arrangements................................................................. 54

Annex 6. Implementation andMonitoring Arrangements.........................................                -59

Annex 7.Positive List of Imports for Component 1................................................           61

Annex 8 .ProjectPreparation andAppraisal Team Members......................................                62

Annex 9 SelectedEconomic andFinancial Indicators.............................................
        .                                                                                                  63

Annex 10. Map..........................................................................................    64


                     EMERGENCYOPERATIONPROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET


                            DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC OF CONGO:
               EmergencyProjectto Mitigatethe Impactof the FinancialCrisis
                                              Africa


Date: February 11,2009                                Team Leader: Franck Bousquet
Country Director: Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly         Sectors: General finance sector (49%);
Sector Director: IngerAndersen                        General education sector (16%); General
Sector Manager: EustacheOuayoro                       water, sanitation and flood protection
Lending instrument: Emergency Recovery Grant          sector (20%); Oil and gas (15%)
                                                      Themes: Macroeconomicmanagement
                                                      (P); Small and mediumenterprise
                                                      support (S); Education for all (S) ;

                                                     IWater Supply (WS)
                                                      Environmental screening category: C
Project ID(s): P115642




Project ID:P115642                             Total Amount: US$ 100Million (equivalent)

Proposedterms: Grant                           Expectedimplementationperiod: 12months
                                               (March 2009-Mach 2010)
Expectedeffectiveness date: February28,2009    Expectedrevised closing date: March1,2010

Government: Democratic Republic of Congo       Responsibleagency: Ministry of Plan-Project
                                               CoordinationUnit (UCOP)




Financing Plan (US$ 100 Million)
Source                                   ILocal              IForeign                ITotal
Government
Total IBRD/IDA                            42                  58                       100
Trust Funds
Others
Total                                                                                  100


                  Fiscal Years 2009        2010    2011
Total IBRD/IDA                  70         30
Trust Funds

Does the emergency operation require any exceptions from Bank policies?                 Yes [ ] No [XI
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                            Y e s [ 1 No[ 1


Are there any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
                                                                                        Yes[X] N o [ ]

What safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany?                                            None


Significant, non-standard conditions, ifany:
BoardPresentation:none
Grant effectiveness:Standardlegal conditions
Covenants applicable to projectimplementation.The legal agreement provides for the following
dated covenants:

        Adoption o f Decree setting up the Steering Committee for the Project by no later than one
        month after the Effective Date.
        Signing of Coordination Agreements among entities involved in the Project (UCOP,
        SECOPE, REGIDESO, SNEL)by no later than one month after the Effective Date.
        Adoption o f the Public Water Bill and REDIGESO action plan simplifying billing and
        payments o f water consumption o f public entities, by no later than two weeks after the
        Effective Date.
        Adoption o f the Public Electricity Billand SNEL action planregarding billing and payments
        o f electricity consumption by public entities, by no later than one month after the Effective
        Date.
        Completion o f installation o f metering system to determine electricity usage in the regions
        ofKatanga and Bas Congo byno later than March 15,2009.
        Establishment o f an adequate mechanism to receive and process complaints o f fraud and
        corruption relatedto the Project by no later than three months after the Effective Date.
        Adoption no later than one month after the Effective Date o f an Anti-Corruption Plan.
        Use o f Counterpart Funds exclusively for the activities o f the Project or the Program and not
        for any military expenditure.
        Audit byno later than six months after the EffectiveDate o fthe payments made for teachers
        salaries under Part 2 o f the Project.
        Appointment of an external auditor for the Project and the audits o f Component 1 and 3
        specifically, no later than three months after effectiveness and submission o f audit reports
        for Component 1 and 3 no later than 9 months after effectiveness and 16 months after
        respectively.
        Appointment o f an auditor for the audit o f Component 2 specifically no later than two
        months after effectiveness and submission o f audit report for Component 2 no later than 6
        months after effectiveness.
        Collection o f the list o fpaid teachers by April 1,2009.
        Mid-term review no later than July 30,2009.

Other ImplementationCovenants.CollectionbyUCOP o fall supporting documentation, in
coordinationwith SECOPE, REGIDESO, SNEL,the Customs Office, the Central Bank and the
Ministryo fFinance.

                                       A. INTRODUCTION


1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide a Grant inan
amount o f US$lOO million to the Democratic Republic o f Congo (DRC) to finance an
Emergency Recovery Support to address some o f the near-term impacts o f the current financial
crisis and sustain economic activities untilthe government's policy responses can take effect and
medium-term donor support can be fully identified. The proposed Emergency Project to Mitigate
the Impact o f the Financial Crisis (EPMIFC) will finance the short-term costs associated with: (i)
the import of essential goods and commodities, (ii) salaries o f teachers in the primary and
                                                        the
secondary education sector, and (iii)    the State water and electricity bills. It would assure that
economic activities relying on imports can continue unintenupted and protect the functioning o f
essential social and utility services. Inline with the Bank's rapid response policy on emergencies
and crisis, this grant would support measures to mitigate or avert the impact o f the financial
crisis on the country's economic activities, andhelppreserve essential services as well as human,
institutional, and social capital. The project i s seen as a response to an immediate crisis and a
"bridge" to future operations supported bythe IMF and other donors.

2.       Following a decade o f conflict, DRC has experienced important political and economic
gains since 2001-02. On the political level, the 2006 general elections (legislative and
presidential) took place through a process judged as largely free and fair. Since 2007, a broad
coalition government has implemented policies following a set of five priorities underpinningthe
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (good governance and peace consolidation, consolidation o f
macroeconomic stability and growth, access to social services, fight against HIV/AIDS, and
promotion o f community dynamics) in order to generate rapid growth and sustained
development. As regards economic recovery, adequate monetary and fiscal policies have
addressed hyperinflation (500 percent in 2000) and a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) was satisfactorily implemented between June 2002 and March 2006. Although the
PRGFprogram ended inMarch 2006 without concluding the sixth review while the transitional
government was preparing for the 2006 presidential election, the situation was reversed by the
post-election government which implemented broadly satisfactory policies and reforms
notwithstandingperiodic slippages under a series o f IMF Staff-Monitored Programs.

3.       Growth has picked up significantly after 2002. Average annual GDP growth was 6.7
percent between 2002 and 2008 compared to -5.2 percent over the 1991-2001 period owing to
rapid development in the mining, construction, telecommunication, and transportation sectors,
which all experienced double digit annual growth rates. Following an export boom in 2007,
growth was expected to accelerate firther in 2008. Export volumes increased by about 75
percent in 2007, and rose more than 100 percent in US$ value terms. Increased activity and
revenues in the mining sector led to rising private investment (6 percentage points o f GDP in
2007) and stimulated growth in construction and services. As late as September 2008, a sharp
acceleration o f GDP growth to 10 percent was projected for 2008 in addition to a 23 percent
increase in export volumes. Growth prospects continuing at a double-digit level over the
medium term were good as fiscal policies in 2008 were expected to support monetary policy
efforts at containing the associated inflationary pressures by moving from a 1 percent overall
deficit in2007 to an overall fiscal surplus o f 1percent.

4.      Since September 2008, DRC's economic prospects have sharply deteriorated as a
consequence o f the changing international environment resulting from the financial crisis which
abruptly impacted the mining sector. In addition, the country had to face a security and
humanitariancrisis in the North Kivuprovince following the resurgence o f the conflict in late
August 2008. The main victims o f the conflict are the civilian population, with about 1.2million
people displaced in the Kivus alone. O f these, some 350,000 were in need o f continuous
emergency humanitarianassistance. Difficulties with logistics, security, the cost and scarcity of
food products on the international markets have already reduced assistance to this population to
the bare minimum. The combined effects o f the financial and the security crisis have
overwhelmed the ability o f the Government to respond to the economic consequences o f these
shocks without external support.


     B. EMERGENCY CHALLENGE: MAINTAININGECONOMICAND SOCIAL
                       STABILITY DURINGTHE FINANCIAL CRISIS

CountryContext

5.      Growth and employment. Declining mining output, as well as slower investment
activity will sharply reduce economic growth. In 2008, growth i s estimated at 8 percent, 2
percentage points lower than previously projected. For 2009, a sharp slowdown in growth to
about 4.5 percent (from 10-12 percent previously) i s now expected. The main drivers o f the
growth slowdown are declining mining output and revenue, and a sharp reduction o f foreign
direct investment in2009 (projected from US$2 billion to about US$600 million). Inthe mining
areas around Katanga, the closure o f small mines and reduction o f output in large mines has had
an immediate negative impact on employment, with an estimated 200,000 jobs and 1 million
people indirectly affected. Growth prospects are further undermined by the renewed security
risks in the Eastern part o f the country, further reducing the country's ability to attract capital
inflows.

6.      External sector and reserves. Rapidly deteriorating export proceeds have had an
immediate adverse impact on the balance o f payments and foreign exchange reserves. Copper
and cobalt prices declined significantly, and a Bank mission to Lubumbashi found that, as a
result, copper mining output inKatanga has been cut dramatically since September 2008. Small
artisanal mines have closed entirely, and larger mines are sharply reducing investment programs
and production. As a result o f the sharp decline in export proceeds and expenditure pressures
resulting from security spending and related humanitarian crisis inthe eastern provinces, official
gross reserves have declined from over US$200 million mid-year to US$39 million at the end o f
January 2009, the lowest level since 2001. The decline in export proceeds has also led to a drop
in foreign exchange-denominated bank deposits. Since its peak in July 2008, these foreign
exchange deposits have dropped by US$60 million leading to a decline in banks' gross foreign
assets raising further pressures on the Congolese franc. The exchange rate has slipped from CF
503 to US$1 at end-2007 to CF 639 by end-December 2008. In early January 2009, there were
periods of accelerating depreciation when the Congolese Franc traded at CF 800 to US$l.
However, the authorities launched an information campaign explaining how they were
addressing the crisis. At the same time, the Congolese Central Bank (BCC) undertook a series o f
actions in early January-sale    o f foreign exchange, an increase in its indicative interest rate,


                                                 2

raising the reserve requirements ratio on commercial bank deposits, and mopping up o f excess
liquidity through sales o f central bank notes (BTRs). However, higher inflows of external
support will be essential to cushion the economy's adjustment to the exogenous shocks.

7.        The adverse impact o f the shocks on the balance o f payments (BOP) i s intensifying. The
steep drop in export prices i s projected to lead to a 53 percent decline in export receipts, mainly
reflecting lower receipts from copper, cobalt, and petroleum exports. Although overall imports
are expected to decline in response to lower foreign direct investment and slower economic
growth, the rapid deterioration o f the country's external financial position threatens to lead to
serious shortages o f imported goods on the Congolese markets, including petroleum products,
food products, and construction materials. Shortage o f these goods would further undermine
economic growth prospects and deepen the crisis impact, including reducing the availability o f
food staples in larger cities. It could thereby potentially reverse the achievements regarding
peace and stability o fthe past years.

8.         Government revenue and spending. Government revenues (excluding external grants
andthe yet-to-be-realized signature bonus from China) are projectedto decline from 18.1 to 17.9
percent as a share o f GDP in 2009, mainly because o f declining revenue from DRC's oil
production. At the same time, essential outlays for 2009 are projected at about 21 percent o f
GDP, including budgetedtransfers to the provinces (including for salaries), which would rise to
7 percent o f GDP. The overall fiscal deficit (including all grants and the expected signature
bonus) is projected at 1.9 percent o f GDP on a cash basis, and the residual financing need i s
projected at around US$300 million. Further fiscal pressures may arise if the government has to
address the security and humanitarian needs inthe East, and if interim relief under the enhanced
HIPC Initiative is not extended beyond October 2009, when it reaches its limit o f one-third o f
total HIPC debt relief.'

9.        The weakening fiscal positions, despite broadly appropriate spending policies, may
undermine the government's ability to meet its priority expenditure, including salary and utility
payments on time. This, in turn, would threaten the efforts to provide reliable social services
(especially payment for teachers at the provincial level) and viable water and electricity services
to the population. A serious setback in these areas could result in declining education services
andinability o futility companies to meet their obligations andprovide basic services.

GovernmentStrategy andEmergencyRecovery Grant

10.       The government's strategic response includes internal measures combined with external
support. During negotiations, the government provided the Bank with a letter that sets out its
strategy to deal with the financial crisis(the "Government Emergency Recovery Program"). In
the short run, the government will stem any temptation to avoid recourse to inflation financing,
given its experience with hyperinflation inthe early 2000's. However, with an almost balanced
budget (on a cash basis), government has little room to further stimulate the economy. Its
strategy for emergency recovery in this crisis situation thus focuses on initially limiting

1The IMFi s currently not providing interim reliefunderthe HIPC Initiative, given the absence of a PRGFprogram.
The WorldBank may under certain circumstancesextendinterimreliefbeyondthe ceiling of one-third ofthe HIPC
relief, for up to 50 percento fHIPC relief. Inlate 2008, the EuropeanInvestment Bank (EIB) extendedits interim
debtreliefto the end of 2009. OnJanuary30,2009, the ADB extendedits interimdebt relief to the endof2010.


                                                           3

government spending while protecting fiscal expenditures that cover essential services (such as
salaries for workers), and protecting expenditure that prevent an even sharper economic
downturn (notably certain public investment spending). To complement these internal efforts, the
government i s seeking to mobilize near-term additional external financing o f US$500-600
million with a focus on securing essential imports, sustaining economic activity, and assuring
continuing functioning o f social and utility services.

11.      The government's strategy envisages that the coordinated emergency support by the
World Bank and IMFwill provide bridge finance until additional donor support i s mobilized. By
mid-year, the Government will further firm up its policy response to the crisis and seek
assistance under a new PRGF-supported program. Structural policies would aim both at
improving the efficiency o f public spending and attracting private sector investment. A new
PRGF arrangement would also unlock interim debt relief from the IMF and pave the way for
budget support from the African Development Bank (AfDB) and a World Bank Development
Policy Operation (DPO) to support additional structural reforms. The realization o f a PRGF
Arrangement would involve renewed efforts at addressing the size and concessionality issue
related to the proposed investments by Chinese companies, which has so far held up a new
PRGF-supported program from the IMF.2Securing an agreement on a new PRGF and fulfilling
the HIPC completion point triggers by early 2010 would imply debt relief on the order o fUS$10
billion under HIPC and MDRI, and thus provide additional resources for government to maintain
fiscal sustainability despite the economic downturn. The government's strategy i s actively
supported by the World Bank, the IMF andother multilateral andbilateral donors.

Rationale for the Proposed Emergency Recovery Grant

12.      The Bank has recently put forward a new Financial Crisis Response Fast Track Facility
(IDA-FCR) which aims to allow a comprehensive response to the crisis across a range o f
different instruments. The objectives o f the proposed IDA Facility are to: (a) assist IDA country
governments inanticipating the potential negative effects o f the global crisis on their economies;
(b) provide them with customized policy options to minimize the impact o f the crisis, while
limitingmarket distortions; and (c) provide technical and financial support for continued private
sector activity and public investment projects to ensure that long-term development opportunities
are not compromised. The Facility can finance expenditures needed to maintain economic
stability and sustain growth, address volatility, and protect the poor.

13.      The Bank is joining the IMF and other donors to offer immediate short-term relief from
the impact o f the global crisis while the government puts inplace longer-term measures to adjust
to the new external environment. The choice o f an emergency recovery grant arises from the lack
o f other options, such as project restructuring to meet the immediate financing needs. The Bank
i s uniquely positioned with its rapid response instruments (OP 8.00) to address urgent financing


  A PRGF-supported programinmid-2008 was postponed pending government decision on how to reconcile a large
mining and infrastructure investment deal between DRC and China with the IMF and Bank's concessionality
guidelines. As originally structured, the agreement o f about $9 billion covers a large mining investment and
associated infrastructure, as well as additional infrastructure investment. I t has a concessionality element o f less than
30 percent and involves several government guarantees. The Bank jointly with the IMF has provided intensive
technical assistance to government on options to mobilize large investment while securing the PRGF and the HIPC
debtrelief.


                                                            4

requirements o f DRC while leading at the same time early donor efforts. The size and timing of
support from the IMF and the World Bank will assure adequacy o f foreign exchange to maintain
critical imports during the subsequent 3-4 months, by which time combined policy responses and
additional donor support are expected to sustain the economic recovery program. The Bank and
IMF staff are working closely with multilateral and bilateral donors to mobilize the resources to
address the financing needs during the remainder o f 2009, with the level o f several financial
contributions expected to be decided inFebruary-March 2009.

14.     By leveraging the new IDA-Fast Track Facility, the Bank is in a position to build on
existing relationships with other development partners to develop and agree on a framework of
action that ensures adequate collaboration andhelp the Government o fDRC mitigate the impacts
o f the financial crisis which could overturn progress achieved in the last seven years. These
impacts include:

         0 Disruption o f flow o f essential imports and resultingdecline o f economic activity due
           to severe foreign exchange shortages and rapid depreciation o f the Congolese Franc.
           Recent reserve and exchange rate movements underscore the seriousness o fthis threat.


         0 Severe cuts in basic social expenditure and investments if government i s unable to
           mobilize support to fill the remaining financing needs and is forced to cut back
           spending under its cash budgeting system. The cuts could in particular affect wages
           and the transfers o f resources to the provinces, in turn triggering teachers' strikes
           (teachers comprise the majority o fpublic servants).

           Inability to maintain basic services (water, electricity) if government does not pay its
           water and electricity bills to the service providers (which represent a significant share
           o f the utilities' turnover) and the latter run out o f cash. Without the State payment of
           water and electricity bills, the water and electricity utilities would face a rapidly
           deteriorating financial outlook with concomitant decline in their services. This would
           also undermine Government's preliminary efforts to undertake significant reforms in
           these sectors that are critical for the competitiveness o f the economy.


                                    C. THE BANKRESPONSE
Bank's strategy

15.     The proposed program reflects the Bank's comparative advantage and builds on current
strengths - particularly its existing portfolio o f programs inDRC - and i s cognizant o f proposed
responses o f Government and other development partners. It is also hlly consistent with the
Bank's Global Financial Crisis Response (IDA-FCR) as approved by the Boardon December 9,
2008. The Bank's support to the Government o f DRC in mitigating the impacts o f the financial
crisis is a response to a Government's request and rests on the three following pillars: (i)
Coordinating the multi-donor effort in support o f the economic recovery; (ii)         Adjusting the
existing project portfolio; and (iii) Preparing the proposed emergency operation.




                                                    5

a. Coordinating multi-donor effort in support of the economic recovery. The Bank has
supported the Government indevelopingthe policy response to the crisis, inconjunction with the
IMF and the broader donor community. The balance o f payments financing gap for 2009 is
estimated at US$592 million. The proposedoperation i s seen as a response to an immediate crisis
and a "bridge" to future operations supported by the IMF and other donors. The proposed
operation would thus complement planned IMF support under the External Shock Facility of
about $200 million expected to be mobilized around end February 2009. Inaddition, Bank and
IMF staff are in close contact with other multilateral and bilateral donors to mobilize the
necessary additional resources to fill the remaining gap. Modalities o f these grants are expected
to be confirmed during the first quarter o f 2009 and support i s expected to be sequenced as to
deliver most o f the financing in the first half o f 2009. The Bank has already started discussions
with all partners, including the EUand Belgium, to agree on a framework o f action that ensures
adequate collaboration and complementarity among donors. Furthermore, the government i s in
discussion with China regarding their investment agreement, to permit DRC's external debt to
remain sustainable over the medium and long term following debt relief from traditional
creditors represented in the Paris Club. This could possibly pave the way for a new PRGF
arrangement with the IMF in2009. A new PRGFAgreement will: (i)         immediately trigger interim
debt relief from the IMF, (ii) budget support from the AfDB; and (iii) the course o f
                               enable                                            over
the next 12 months, enable DRC to reach the HIPC completion point and MDRL3These
prospects for debt relief would ensure that the proposed short-term emergency support by the
Bank and other donors ultimately results in a sustainable medium-term macroeconomic
framework.

b. Adjusting the existing project portfolio. In FY09 and FY10, the Bank will support the
Government in financing labor-intensive works. InKatanga, it would be particularly important to
mitigate the employment impact o f mining closures as 200,000 people have been left
unemployed, a direct result o f the financial crisis (which has affected in particular the small
scale and artisanal mininginthe South part o f the KatangaProvince). By either restructuring on-
going IDA-fundedoperations or seeking Trust Fundresources, the Bank will support activities in
Katanga which, by packaging public works appropriately and using labor-intensive methods
(LIM),will create short-term employment opportunities for unskilled andsemi-skilledlabor and
promote Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) in construction and urban services.                   The
approach using LIMwill present the advantage o f beingreplicable inother Provinces affected by
the financial crisis, leveraging financial support from other donors. Additionally, the Bank will
work with the Government to accelerate the disbursement from the current portfolio.

c. ProposedResponse to Mitigatethe Impacts of the FinancialCrisis.As detailed below, the
Bank will finance the proposed emergency recovery grant which supports the government's
objectives and aims at stabilizing DRC's economy. Bank's strategy consists of short-term
financing of key imports so that the economy does not collapse while, at the same time,
ensuringthat basic social services are maintained.Bank's support will contributeto ensure
that education continues to receive support under the long term view of the economic
development and protect the poor by ensuring that essential services, such as water and


3Neither Banksupportunder an ERCnor the IMF'sESFwould be conditionedonprior resolutionofthe China
investment.



                                                   6

electricity, are preserved. The proposed operation has three components that are presented
below.


Project Development Objectives

16.     The project objective is to help mitigate the immediate and severe impact of the global
financial crisis on DRC's economy by providing short term transitional support to fund critical
imports andmaintaintargeted essential services.

Summary of Project Components

17.     In a context of competing priorities, three principles have guided the selection of
activities to be financed under the Project: (i)          relieving the most pressing constraints to the
government's emergency program and complementarities with other partners; (ii)achieving
rapid results and (iii)   readiness for implementation. As detailed in Annex 1, the project has the
three following components:

             Component 1 (US$58 million). Financing of imports of essential goods and
            commodities. The government's program aims at protecting the functioning o f key
            economic sectors by assuring the availability of critical imported goods. Inparticular,
            this component would finance imports by the private sector of goods and commodities
            detailed on a positive list4 and including food products, construction materials,
            telecommunication equipment, and petroleum and fuel products. These goods are
            critical for sustaining transport activities, utility services, public and private
            construction activities and investment: They play a key role in attaining the objectives
            o f the short-term program o f government. The local currency counterpart funds
            generated by the project financing will also help finance the 2009 budget5.This
            component will thus ensure that the private sector can continue to import critical foods
            and commodities.

                  Component 2 (US$16 million). Financing of primary and secondary school
            teachers salaries. In particular, the proposed operation will finance one month o f
           primary and secondary education teachers' salaries. This component will contribute to
            ensure continued provision o f education services throughout the country. Inabsence o f
           payment o f teacher salaries, strikes are to be expected, which would lead to school
            closures. The Government has committed the budget for 12 months o f teachers'
            salaries and this component will enable the government to make this commitment
           without rupture. This component will also contribute to assure that teachers' salaries
           continue to be paid inall Provinces and provide income throughout the nation.




 See OP 8.00, paragraph 7 e).
  Counterpart hnds are managed ina dedicated treasury account and must be used for the purposes o f the program.
All amounts withdrawn from the Counterpart Funds Account shall be used exclusively for the activities described
under the Project or otherwise for the implementationthe Government Emergency RecoveryProgram


                                                        7

                 Component 3 (US$26 million). Financing State water and electricity bills. By
           helping to cover part o f the public utility bills, this component would prevent the crisis
           from aggravating the financial position o f the national water utility (REGIDESO) and
           o f the national electricity utility (SNEL) and causing services to deteriorate, thus
          jeopardizing on-going recovery efforts. Consumption by official government entities
           accounts for a very sizeable share o f sales by these two utilities and represents 40
           percent for REGIDESO and 25 percent for SNEL. The Government has embarked on a
           comprehensive sectoral reform including its commitment to pay in a timely manner its
           electricity and water bills and this reform is supported by the Bank and other donors.
           Providing additional resources to the Government will ensure that State water bills will
           continue to be paid despite the impact o f the current financial crisis. Without regular
           payment o f water and electricity bills, these utilities would face a rapidly deteriorating
           financial outlook with concomitant decline in their services. Lack o f water would
           impact the population who would revert to polluted water, which represents significant
           health risks. Lack o f regular payment o f State utility bills would undermine the start-up
           o f programs undertaken by the Government for the recovery o f these sectors that are
           critical for improving livingconditions and the competitiveness o f the economy.


Eligibility for Processing under OP 8.00 and Choice of Instrument


18.      Eligibility for Processing under OP/BP 8.00. Under OP 8.00, emergency support can
be provided in response to a request by the Government for urgent assistance to address major
adverse economic and social impact resulting from an actual or imminent natural or man-made
crisis or disaster. The fall-out o f the financial crisis worldwide has had a particularly dramatic
and direct impact on DRC, triggering an emergency response by government to address its
adverse economic and social impact. In line with OP 8.00, the Bank proposes to support the
government's program with this emergency recovery grant, in a joint effort o f multilateral
institutions and bilateral donors. Following OP 8.00, paragraph 4, the proposed operation
addresses in particular the objectives of mitigating or averting the potential effects o f the crisis
on economic activities, preserving essential services and preserving human, institutional, and
social capital. In line with the policy (paragraph 6), the focus i s on short-term relief and
mitigation, with longer-term economic issues that require a policy response left for potential
future developmentpolicy operation. To foster the objectives o fa quick emergency response, the
operation makes use of the provisions for financing o f recurrent costs (paragraph 7 c), retroactive
financing (paragraph 7 d) and financing o f a positive list o f goods (paragraph 7 e). On January
13,2009, Bank management approved the processing o f the proposedoperationunder the overall
umbrella o fthe IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast Track Facility presentedbelow.

19.     Use of IDA Fast-TrackFacility. This IDA grant is processed under the IDA Financial
Crisis Response (IDA-FCR) Fast-Track Facility approved by the Bank's Executive Directors on
Dec 9, 2008. The proposed operation6 supports the key objectives of the IDA-FCR Fast Track

 FundedunderDRC's IDA country allocation.


                                                   8

Facility as it will: (a) assist DRC government in mitigatingthe negative effects o f the financial
crisis on its economy; and (b) provide financial support for continued private sector activity and
public investment projects to ensure that long-term development opportunities are not
compromised. Additionally, under its three components, the proposed operation would finance
expenditures needed to maintain economic stability andprotect the poor.

20.      Choice of Instrument. The alternative o f providing assistance under a Development
Policy Grant has been considered as part o f project preparation. However, given (a) the
importance o f offering quick Short-term financing for certain focused activities (imports,
recurrent costs related to social sectors and utilities) rather than supporting policy and
institutional actions to address the crisis; and (b) the need to pursue a public financial
management reform, supported by the Bank and other donors, as a prerequisite for a DPO, an
emergency recovery grant with focused and short-term support for critical crisis-related
expenditure was seen as more appropriate.


Consistencywith CountryStrategy (CAS)


 21.     The proposed Project is fully consistent with the objectives o f the Government's PRSP,
 particularly Pillar 2 (Consolidating macroeconomic stability and economic growth) and Pillar 3
 (Improving Access to Social Services andReducing Vulnerability).

 22.     The overall objective o f the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) o f December 18, 2007, is
 to lay the foundation for a medium-term poverty reduction effort, with a strong focus on
 governance and shared growth. The CAS i s derived fi-om the PRSP, and actions proposedunder
 the CAS are closely aligned with PRSP priorities. The proposed project i s therefore fully
 aligned with two o fthe CAS five strategic elements:

    0    Strategic element 2: Help consolidate macroeconomic stability and economic growth - as
        designed under the proposedProject, especially under component 1.

         Strategic element 3: Help Improve the Provision o f Social Services and Reduce
        Vulnerability. Under this pillar, the CAS specifically indicates that the Bank will support
        programs aiming at improving the quality and coverage o f education and increasing
        access to clean water and sanitation. The proposed operation, under its component 2,
        fully supports this strategic element.




                                                 9

Expected Outcomes



      PDOOutcomes                             Outcomeindicators

(A).Key importedgoods       (A) Shortages o fkey commodities (fuel, imported
are available on the local  food, construction materials) over the next 3 months
market (fuel, imported
 food, construction
materials)

                            (B)Number o fmonthsteachers receive timely
 (B).Government is able to  payments (target 3 months)
pay teachers' salaries on
time
                            (C) Increasedrecovery o f Government water bills
 (C) Increasedrecovery o f  (target: 80%)
Government water and
electricity bills           Increasedrecovery o f Government electricity bills
                            (target 80%)
IntermediateResultsfor      IntermediateResultsIndicators
 each Component

Component One.              1.1- Total Value (Quantity) o f imported essential
Financing of essential      goods & commoditiesby the project funds (US$58
imports of critical goods   Million)
and commodities.

Component Two.              2.1- Months o fprimary and secondary education
Financing of primary and    teacher salaries financed by the project funds (one
secondavy school teachers   month)
salaries

Component Three.            3.1- Amount o f State water bills fully paid (US$12
Financing State water and   Million)
electricity bills
                            3.2- Amount o f State electricity bills fully paid
                            (US$11.4 Million)




                         D. APPRAISAL OFPROJECTACTIVITIES


23.    The financing of imports of essential goods and commodities will safeguard the
continued functioning of the economy and help lessen a large economic contraction which
would be costly to reverse. Similarly the economic cost o f disruption to teacher salaries and non
payment o f utility bills would far exceed the financial resources that are allocated through this
grant. Inabsence o fpayment of teacher salaries, strikes are to be expected, which would leadto



                                                 10

school closures. Similarly non payment o f utility bills would do lasting damage to the
companies involved, who would no longer be able to provide their services which are key to
improving living conditions andthe competitiveness o f the economy.

24.     Appraisal o f the three project's components has mainly focused on the need to design
activities which can provide a rapid response to the impacts o f the current financial crisis (which
has materialized, in particular, by a very low level o f reserves o f US$39 million at the end o f
January) while, at the same time, mitigating risks, in particular fiduciary risks. As a result, the
following measures were agreed betweenthe Government and the Bank, duringappraisal:

           >    Component1(Financing of imports of essential goods and commodities - US$58
               million). As detailed in Annex 1, a positive list o f goods and commodities was
               finalized duringproject appraisal, including food products, constructionmaterials,
               telecommunication equipment, and oil products. Assessment o f major imports
               contracts from June 2008 to January 20097 concluded that a retroactive financing
               o f up to US$24 million could be provided to finance import expenditures incurred
               within twelve months before Grant signing. A consultant was recruited during
               project preparation to review private importers' commercial practices and ensure
               they could be considered acceptable by the Bank. The consultant's assessment
               confirmed that: (i)    procurement of import commodities by private sector o f US$1
               million and above can follow modified ICB procedures in accordance with para
               2.66-2.67 o f the Procurement Guidelines and that procurement o f such imports
               below a threshold o f US$1 million can be based on established commercial
               practices pursuant to footnote 55 o f the Bank Procurement Guidelines; and (ii)
               supporting documentation was available for the amount proposed for the
               retroactive financing, so that the initial disbursements can be made in March
               2009, within one month after project effectiveness. Conclusions o f the report have
               been assessed satisfactory by the Bank.

           >   Component 2 (Financing of primary and secondary school teachers salaries -
               US$16 million). The appraisal o f this component benefited from an in-depth
               knowledge o f the DRC education sector, in particular through the on-going IDA
               funded Education Sector Operation. A tracking survey inthis sector conducted for
               the 2008 Public Expenditure Review found that at the schools visited and during
               the months involved, more than 95 percent o f the wages disbursed by the
               Treasury reached teachers. However, there was also evidence o f leakages and
               some potential risks o fpaying ghost teachers incase there i s no strong evidence to
               identify the eligible teachers and confirm that they have been paid for service
               rendered. As a result, the component has been designed so that the Bank will first
               reimburse up to 70 percent o f the teachers' salary payments made by the
               Government for the November 2008 payroll as retroactive-financing and then,
               disburse the balance only upon conclusive audit o f the eligibility o f salaries paid
               by the Government (thus significantly reducing the risk o f financing ghost
               teachers). This will significantly reduce fiduciary risk. The list o f supporting


'Contractswhich have an average value of US$400,000 and amount to less than US$1 Million


                                                    11

  documents necessary for the reimbursement o f teachers' salaries was also
  reviewed and agreed upon duringproject appraisal (see Annex 1).

9 Component 3 (Financing State water and electricity bills - US$26 million).
  Similar to component 2, the appraisal o f this component benefited from an in-
  depth knowledge o f the water and energy sectors, inparticular through three on-
  going operations. During appraisal the action plans o f both S N E L and
  REGIDESO aimed at producing certified electricity and water bills reflecting
  actual metered consumption to enable payment o f State utilitybills were reviewed
  (see Annex 1 for more details). State water and electricity consumption will be
  metered and certified before payment can take place, thus providing sufficient
  safeguard against undue payments.

9 Anti-corruption plan. A simplified anti-corruption plan was prepared during
  appraisal and will be adopted by the Government within one month of project
  effectiveness. The Plan focuses on some key measures to be taken by the various
  actors involved inproject implementation to mitigate some o f the most important
  fiduciary risks. The anti-corruption plan includes the following measures: (i)
  establishing, within three months o f Project effectiveness, an adequate Project
  mechanism to receive and process in an independent manner, complaints o f fraud
  and corruption related to the implementation o f any activity funded under the
  Project and ensure effective investigation and prosecution o f credible complaints;
  (ii)carrying out four technical and financial audits, launched at an early stage o f
 project implementation upon the first set o f disbursements; (iii)     strengthening
  communication from authorities on key measures to be taken if fraud i s revealed
  during project implementation; (iv) implementing two action plans (already
 prepared) to reform the control and payment o f public water bills to ensure they
  are certified and reflect actual consumptions; and (v) ensuring that Bank
  supervision i s appropriate (in particular financial management and procurement
  supervisions will be carried out on a quarterly basis).


9 Implementation Arrangements. The combined objectives of addressing the
  emergency nature o f this operation and ensuring that fiduciary risks are reduced
 have determined the selection o f an existing project implementation agency
  already in charge o f three Bank financed operations, UCOP, which has
  demonstrated sustained performance in Bank-funded projects and has good track
 record in fiduciary aspects. This solution: (i)  reduces financial management and
 procurement risks as the proposed implementation agency meets Bank's fiduciary
 standards andhas already inplace procurement and FMstaff, with a system found
  acceptable by the Bank (this was reconfirmed during appraisal, as detailed in
 Annexes 4 and 5); and (ii) significantly reduces operating costs (limited to
                               also
 US$170,000 for a US$lOO Million Grant, as there is no need to finance additional
 fiduciary experts or additional investments typically needed for the functioning o f
 a newly established PCU), therefore optimizing IDA resources for the project's
 mainpurpose.




                                   12

            k Balancebetweenfast disbursements and carefulanalysis of risks. TheProject
               has been specifically structured to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the
               need to disburse as quickly as possible given the pressing needs o f the
               Government following the financial crisis and, on the other hand, the obligation to
               not expose the Association to unnecessary fiduciary risks. As such, the Project
               allows for retroactive financing for payments made since June 2008 up to the
               maximum amount permitted under OP 8.00 (40 percent o f the Grant). Inaddition,
               disbursements will be made in the form o f advances, up to US$10 million o f
               which will be disbursed as soon as the Project i s effective and the necessary
               accounts are opened. Inorder to accelerate disbursements, design o f component 2
               (payment o f teachers' salaries) will allow 70 percent o f the amount dedicated to
               this component to be disbursed immediately upon project effectiveness. As a
               result, the project disbursement profile i s expected to be the following: (i)  first
               two weeks o f March 2009 (upon project effectiveness): US$22 million will be
               disbursed (corresponding to the advances on component 1 and the first payment
               o f component 2); and (ii)by end o fMarchheginning o f April 2009, an additional
               US$26 million will be disbursed (corresponding to the financing o f imported
               goods under component 1, o f which US$24 million be disbursed under the
               retroactive financing mechanism). Inconclusion, a total amount o f US$48 million
               is expected to be disbursed by the end o f Marchheginningo f April or 48 percent
               o f the total Grant in about one month. Lastly, ninety percent of the Grant i s
               expected to be disbursed seven months after project effectiveness.

25.   Lessonslearned. The following operational lessons have been incorporated into the
design o f the proposedproject:

          Importance of using experienced and tested implementation agenciesfor emergency
          operations to achieve quick results. Leveraging existing implementing structures
          which already meet Bank fiduciary standards and have a good knowledge o f Bank
          procedures i s critical to achieving quick results because staff in charge o f project
          implementation canbe fully operational uponproject effectiveness.

          Lessons from earlier crises point to the importance of safeguarding investments
          neededfor long-term growth. As developing country budgets adjust to reduced fiscal
          spaces, maintaining expenditures in critical infrastructure i s paramount to sustaining
          economic growth and social development. The proposed operation focuses on
          essential social services (education, water, electricity), thus contributing to protecting
          longruninvestment inthose sectors.

          Effective implementation requires substantial hands-on Bank involvement. A very
          close working relationship has been developed with the implementation entities to
          help overcome obstacles, accelerate activities, and provide frequent technical advice
          as needed. In addition, close supervision, frequent procurement post-reviews, and
          close Bank country office involvement are critical to help mitigate fiduciary risks. The
          Bank country office inKinshasa has also been strengthened inprocurement, FM, and
          environmental safeguards.



                                                13

            Finally, the Project draws on lessons from the Quality Assurance Group's (QAG)
            assessments of past emergency Bank operations, including the importance o f keeping
            project design simple, and the need for adequate institutional arrangements that reflect
            existingcapacity on the ground.

 26.    The environment category is C. The proposed project activities (financing imports of
 essential goods and commodities, financing o f teachers' salaries and payment o f State utility
 bills) do not trigger any safeguard policies.

 27.    The project does not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.


           E. IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTSAND FINANCINGPLAN


 28.    ProjectImplementationArrangements.Given the need for rapidresults on the ground,
 the Project has been designed to rely on implementation arrangements which are already in
 place and have been successfully tested under earlier Bank-financed activities. As part o f project
 preparation, it was agreed that the implementing agency UCOP, an agency reporting to the
 Ministry o f Planning which has gained experience in managing successfully previous IDA-
 funded operations (including emergency operations under OP 8.00) will ensure the overall
 coordination o f the project. UCOP has a good track record on fiduciary aspects as it i s managing
 three Bank funded operations ina satisfactory manner.

 29.    TheProject Coordination Unit (PCU - UCOP). The PCU, which reports to the Ministry
 o f Planning, will be the Bank's main counterpart and focal point for Project implementation. It
 will be responsible for: (i) implementation; (ii)
                                  overall                          coordination with technical ministries
 and other relevant entities for the successful implementation o f all components; (iii)
 management o f contracts awarded under the project; and (iv) financial management. During
 appraisal, an assessment o f the agency's capacity to manage the project activities confirmed that
 the UCOP would not be overburdened with the additional responsibility o f implementingthis
 operation'.

 30.    The Interministerial Oversight Committee (Comite' Interministhiel de Supervision, CIS).
 The CIS will : (i)     oversee PCU activities, with a focus on effectiveness and transparency; (ii)
 provide overall guidance as may be needed; and (iii)            facilitate the coordination o f the various
 public institutions involved inthe Project, ifandwhen, difficulties arise at the operational level.

 31.    Selected technical entities will be involved inthe implementation o f specific components,
 including: (i)  the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank (Banque Centrale du Congo) for
 component I,(ii)      the Ministry for Primary and Secondary Education for component 2 and (iii)
 the water utility (REGIDESO) andthe electricity utility (SNEL) for component 3. Detailedroles
 ofthe various entities are described inAnnex 1.



8UCOP i s also hiring two staffto support project implementation.


                                                       14

 FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

32.     The Project will be implemented by UCOP in coordination with the Central Bank o f
Congo (BCC) and other stakeholders. The main fiduciary responsibility will rest with UCOP
which has sound administrative and financial management arrangements in place to support a
smooth implementation.

33.     The proceeds o f the grant will be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign expenditures
(Le., the delivered cost o f imports, excluding import duties and taxes), o f the agreed positive list,
inthe caseo fcomponent 1,andagainst 100percent ofpaidteachers' salaries and state water and
electricity bills. Disbursements will be made against Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs). The
Recipient may also request disbursement through the following Designated Accounts to be
opened at the Central Bank (BCC): (i)     Component 1: a Designated Account "A" in USD with a
ceiling o f US$10 million will be opened at BCC and a Dedicated Treasury Account (DTA) in
Congolese Francs (FC); (ii)     Component 2: disbursement will be made into the Government
Treasury Account in Congolese Francs (FC) also held at BCC ;(iii)       Component 3: a Designated
Account "B" (DA) in USD with a ceiling o f US$10 million will be opened at BCC and a
Designated Account "C" with a ceiling of US$150,000 will opened in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA for operating costs and audits. The flow o f funds for each component will be
as follow:

34.     For component 1, the grant proceeds would be disbursed against 100 percent o f the
delivered costs o f imports (excluding taxes and duties) on the positive list (see Annex 7).
Disbursement would be against statement o f expenditures for private sector procured imports. In
view o f the emergency nature o f this operation and the goal to design a quick disbursing
component, the ceiling o f the advance will be set at US$10 million. The remaining balance
would be disbursed against submission o f SOEs as detailed in Annex 4. After Grant
effectiveness and at the request o f the Recipient, IDA will disburse the initial advance into the
USD Designated Account "A". The equivalent in local currency will be transferred into a
DedicatedTreasury Account (DTA) in Congolese Francs (FC) and could only be used insupport
o f the Project or the Program and not for military expenditures. IDA will request an audit o f the
DTA as part o fthe audit o fComponent 1detailedbelow under auditing arrangements.

35.     For component 2, salaries paid under primary and secondary teachers for the November
2008 payroll will be reimbursed into the Government Treasury Account. It i s anticipated that an
initial 70 percent (approximately US$12 million) will be reimbursed into the Government
Treasury Account using the retroactive financing mechanism and the balance will be disbursed
upon conclusive audit.

36.     Under component 3, proceeds allocated to the financing o f State water and electricity
bills, will be disbursed into a separate USD Designated Account (DA "B") held at the BCC to
finance 100 percent o f state water and electricity bills. An initial advance o f US$10 million will
be made after Grant effectiveness and at the Recipient's request to pay for the state utility bills
for the period o f January 2009 through March 2009, and against submission o f SOEs for the
withdrawal o f the balance. Disbursements o f proceeds allocated to the project's operating costs
and audits will be made through DA "C" held ina commercial bank through an initial advance o f
US$150,000 and against submission o f SOEs for subsequent withdrawals.


                                                 15

37.     Supporting documentation for disbursements made under each component will be
collected by the Recipient through UCOP in accordance with the agreed timetable and, as stated
in the Financing Agreement; these documents must be retained by the Recipient for audit
purposes.

38.     Retroactive Jinancing. Retroactive financing o f up to US$40 million, equivalent to 40
percent o f the grant proceeds, would be provided to finance US$16 million under Component 2
(teachers' salaries) and US$24 million under Component 1 (imports) for payments made before
grant signingdate but on or after June 2008.

39.     Quarterly un-audited Interim Financial Reports (IFR) will be prepared and submitted by
UCOP to IDA within 45 days after the end o f each quarter. At the end o f the 12 month of the
project, UCOP will issue the Project's Financial Statements. An external auditor acceptable to
IDAwill be appointed by UCOP to audit the Project Financial Statements covering the project's
12 month lifetime no later than three months after the end o f the 12-month project. Besides
special audit reports will be submitted to IDA on component 1and 2 no later than November 15,
2009, and September 15, 2009, respectively. These project audits will be carried out in
accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) on terms o f reference acceptable
to IDA. The audit reports will include a management letter: (i)an opinion on the project's
financial statements; (ii)one special opinion on supporting documents related to the positive list;
(iii) specialopinionontheCounterpartTreasuryAccounttocertifythatspendingoutofthe
     one
account i s consistent with the Government Emergency Recovery Program and the Project; and
(iv) one special opinion on teachers' salaries.

40.     Critical risks and possible controversial aspects. First, component 1 i s generating
counterpart funds in Congolese Francs that may be used to finance regular budgetary outlays.
These finds could potentially be used for purposes not inline with the development objectives of
the operation (e.g., military expenditure). To mitigate this risk, the Government has agreed to
manage the counterpart funds under a dedicated local currency counterpart fund account and use
resources only for the agreed program expenditures. Second, there are around 260,000 teachers
paidby the Government to be reimbursed under component 2. The Government is improving the
payroll system with the support o f the Bank and DFID which is financing a census. There are
however potential risks o f paying ghost teachers and therefore the need to identify eligible
teachers and confirm that they have beenpaid for service rendered. To mitigate this risk, it was
agreed to reimburse up to 70 percent o f teachers' salaries initially, and then release the balance
upon conclusive audit o f the eligibility o f salaries paid by the Government.

41.     Detailed FMand Disbursement arrangements are further detailed inAnnex 4.

Loadcredit conditions and covenants:


        Adoption o f Decree setting up the Steering Committee for the Project by no later than
        one month after the Effective Date.
        Signing o f Coordination Agreements among entities involved in the Project (UCOP,
        SECOPE, REGIDESO, SNEL) by no later than one month after the Effective Date.



                                                    16

       Adoption o f the Public Water Bill and REDIGESO action plan simplifying billing and
       payments o f water consumption o f public entities, by no later than two weeks after the
       Effective Date.
       Adoption o f the Public Electricity Bill and SNEL action plan regarding billing and
       payments o f electricity consumption by public entities, by no later than one month after
       the Effective Date.
       Completion of installation o f metering system to determine electricity usage in the
       regions o f Katanga and Bas Congo by no later than March 15,2009.
       Establishment o f an adequate mechanism to receive and process complaints o f fraud and
       corruption relatedto the Project by no later thanthree months after the Effective Date.
       Adoption no later than one month after the Effective Date o f an Anti-Corruption Plan.
       Use o f Counterpart Funds exclusively for the activities o f the Project or the Program and
       not for any military expenditure.
       Audit by no later than six months after the Effective Date o f the payments made for
       teachers salaries underPart 2 o fthe Project.
       Appointment o f an external auditor for the Project and the audits o f Component 1 and 3
       specifically, no later than three months after effectiveness and submission o f audit reports
       for Component 1 and 3 no later than 9 months after effectiveness and 16 months after
       respectively.
       Appointment of an auditor for the audit o f Component 2 specifically no later than two
       months after effectiveness and submission o f audit report for Component 2 no later than 6
       months after effectiveness.
       Collection o fthe list o fpaidteachers by April 1,2009.
       Mid-term review no later than July 30,2009.

DisbursementConditions

        Opening o f Bank accounts required for the project at the central bank and in a
       commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
       Satisfactory technical audit concluding that the total amount o f the November 2008
       Teacher Salary Payments that are eligible for financing out o f the proceeds o f the Grant
       pursuant to the supporting documents exceeds the amount initially disbursed.

Other ImplementationCovenants

       Collection by UCOP o f all supporting documentation, in coordination with SECOPE,
       REGIDESO, SNEL, the Customs Office, the Central Bank and the Ministry o f Finance.

ProcurementArrangements

42.    A Country Procurement Assessment Review carried out in 2003 found weaknesses of
national procurement systems that led to the classification o f DRC as a high risk country. The
weaknesses are currently being addressed as part o f an action plan implemented under a Bank-
hnded project. As a result, a national procurement code, prepared under an IDA-funded
operation and assessed to be satisfactory by the Bank, was adopted by the Council o f Ministers
on December 19, 2008, and transmitted to the national assembly for review and final approval.


                                                17

Procurement activities o f the project will be carried out by UCOP. UCOP has demonstrated the
capacity to implement several projects financed by the World Bank (including the Emergency
UrbanandSocial Rehabilitation, andthe Emergency LivingConditions ImprovementProject). A
re-assessment o f the procurement capacity o f UCOP was carried out during appraisal and
appropriate risks mitigation measures were recommended.

 43.    Giventhe prevailing impact o fthe financial crisis inDRC, this project is beingprocessed
 under the OP/BP 8.00 "Rapid Response to Crisis and Emergencies", where quick disbursement
 can be made against a positive list o f imports. Procurement activities o f this project are limited
 to audits for imports under component 1, consultants' services (audits) for components 1,2, and
 3, recruitment o f staff for the PCU, and purchase o f office supplies and computer equipment for
 project operations. For Component 1, it i s proposed that the grant proceeds be made available to
 finance private sector imports against evidence that the imported goods are on the positive list
 and procured following agreed procedures consistent with requirements o f OP/BP 8.0 and
 para.2.66, 2.67 and footnote 55 o f the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
 IDA Credits" dated May 2004, revised October 2006. An assessment o f the commercial
 practices for imports by private sector was carried out by an independent consultant during
 project preparation, and its conclusions were confirmed by the Bank. The main conclusions of
 the assessment are as follows:


        (i)  Commercial practices for the supply o f the products specified on the positive list by
        the private sector inDRC are acceptable. The fiduciary risk at the procurement level has
        been reduced, taking into account the fact that the selected importers use commercial
        practices that are competitive and acceptable. In addition, all the targeted products have
        undergone an inspection before being imported by an International company B N A C
        recruited by the DRC Government and their prices verified (by comparing them with the
        established B I V A C data base usinginternationalmarket prices).

        (ii) Relevant documentation is available to ensure that goods to be funded under the
        Project were imported and foreign suppliers were actually paid (copies o f the credit
        transfer andpayment notice o fthe importer's commercial bank).

Details o fprocurement arrangements are presentedinAnnex 5.

44.         Project Coverage and ImplementationPeriod. The Project is expected to be fully
implemented (including completion o f all project audits) within one year o f effectiveness (by
March 2010). Forty percent o f the funds will be disbursed using the retroactive financing
mechanism and about 70 percent o f the funds are expected to be disbursed by the end o f July
2009, i.e., five months after project Board approval.

45.         ImplementationSupport.The Bank will devote some 30 staffweeks for the one year
o f project implementation to help the Government carry out the activities and supervise progress.
Implementation support and supervision through missions, as well as direct support by the
Country Office in Kinshasa, will in particular, focus on performance o f key staff managing
contracts, procurement, and financial matters, as well as in completing the agreed
implementation plans.



                                                 18

46.        Expectedtiming of implementation.Assuming the project becomes effective by the
first week o f March2009, the expected key milestones for implementation are as follows:

0           Component One. Financing imports of essentialgoods and commodities.

             9 Disbursement, including anyretroactivefinancing: March-July2009.
             9 Completion (including audits): September 2009.

            ComponentTwo. Financing ofprimary and secondary school teacherssalaries

             9 Disbursementofretroactivefinancingwouldbeginasearly asMarchandbe
                 completedby August 2009.
             9 Completion(including audits): October 2009.

            ComponentThree. FinancingState water and electricity bills

             9 Firstdisbursement: June 2009.
             9 Seconddisbursement: September 2009.
             9 Completion(including audits): November 2009.




   COMPONENTA: Financing imports of essential goods and commodities                                58.00

   COMPONENT B: Financing of primary and secondary school teachers salaries                        16.00
   COMPONENT C: Financing State water and electricity bills (incl project implementationcosts)     26.00

   C1 Financing of State Water Bills from January to June 2009                                     12.00

  IC2 Financing of State Electricity Bills from January to June 2009                            I  11.40  I
   C3 Project implementingcosts and consultant services (technical and financial audits)           2.60

   TOTAL                                                                                           100.00



                     F. PROJECTRISKS AND MITIGATINGMEASURES

48.     This project has an overall high risk rating as its outcome i s contingent on high risks,
both external to the Project as well as Project-specific risks. This high overall risk has to be
weighed against the risk o f not providing rapid support to the Government as it attempts to
address andmitigate the impact o f the global economic crisis. Unabated, the consequences of the
international crisis would be devastating for DRC, not only for its economy but also for its
fragile political, social and security stability. The main risks are summarizedbelow:




                                                             19

               R i S k S                                          RiskMitigation Measures                                 Risk
                                                                                                                          Rating
Political and Social Risks
Renewed conflict and economic       The Bank will continue to work closely with the UNandbilateral and international
fragility may undermine social      development partners to monitor the political situation. High-level UN-led efforts
andpolitical stability.             are underway to channel renewed violence inthe Eastern part o f DRC towards            H
                                    dialogue between the Government and the rebellingparties. Inaddition, a bilateral
                                    agreement between Rwanda and DRC to disarm and repatriate the FDLRinEastern
                                    Congo was signed inJanuary 2009 and i s currently under implementation. The
                                    Project will directly contribute to mitigatingthe risk o f social and political
                                    instability emanating from the impact o f the global economic downturn.
Macro-economic Risks
A further deterioration o fthe      The Government has formulated an Emergency Recovery Program inwhich it                 H
international economic situation    commits to three fiscal policy objectives: (i) macro-economic stability; (ii)regular
and an inadequatepolicy             servicing o f the international debt; and (iii)
                                                                                  ensuring the continuity o f social
response may causethe BOP and       services, including education and access to water and electricity. The Bankwill
budget deficits for FY10to grow     continue to work closely with the IMF to monitor macroeconomic developments
considerably beyond the levels      and identifypolicy options ina timely manner.This will be particularly important
currently projected.                inthe context ofthe PRGF negotiations andpossible budgetsupport that the World
                                    Bankmayprovide to support the agreed policies.
Delays inthe implementation o f     The completion o f an external audit o f Central Bank procedures i s expected to pave
Government commitments may          the way for IMF support under the External Shock Facility. The Government is
cause delays inprogrammed           committed to reconcile the terms o f a large mining and infrastructure investment
financial support to address the    financed by China to ensure the sustainability o f DRC's external debt over the
projected BOP and budget            medium to long term, which i s necessary for concluding a new PRGF arrangement          H
deficits and result inthe           with the IMF,for reaching the HIPC completion point andunlockingMDRI
accumulation o f international      support. The agreement requires a minimum35% level o f concessionality to
arrears.                            maintain the IDA allocation, although the policy is applied on a case by case. A
                                    PRGF arrangement will also enable a budget program from the AfDB and a Bank
                                    funded DPO. Bank and Fund staff are also inregular contact with potential bilateral
                                    donors who may be prepared to provide additional resourcesto address the
                                    consequences o f the global economic crisis inDRC.
Overall ImplementationRisks
The high level o fretro-active      The Government has committed to the continued payment o f both teacher salaries
financing and the focus on rapid    and State electricity and water bills throughout the year. Commitment o f the           S
disbursement couldjeopardize        Government to pay its utilitybills is also included inthe Arretes on "Public Bills"
the sustainability o fthe project   (set up as covenant o f the Financing Agreement). The Bank is supporting the
objectives.                         Government inthose two sectors (education and infrastructure) through two major
                                    operations, which allows continuous dialogue and close follow up on this important
                                    aspect.
The Government may not have         Project implementationhas been entrusted to UCOP, an executing agency with
the capacity to implement the       solid experience inimplementingBank-financedprojects, including emergency              M
Project with the speedrequired      projects which had a similar structure to this EmergencyProject. An assessment o f
to address the crisis situation.    UCOP capacity to handle the proposed activities under this Project was carried out
                                    during appraisal and confirmed that the agency had the necessary capacity. In
                                    addition to the Project Coordinator, UCOP i s recruitingtwo staff to collect and
                                    check all the documentation necessary to be provided under component 1.
Overall Fiduciay Risks
Counterpart Fundsgenerated by       The choice o f instrument, i.e. emergency under OP 8.00 rather than OP 8.60 (a
the Project and reimbursement of    Development Policy Grant) allowsthe support to a positive list o f essential goods
recurrent government                and commodities importedby the private sector (component 1) and to specific
expenditures may facilitate         recurrent government expenditures, i.e. teacher salaries and utility costs              N
increased military spending in      (components 2 and 3) and excludes payments for goods for military purposes.
the face o f renewed violence in    Moreover, the procedures and documents required in support o f the reimbursement
the Easternpart o fDRC, or more     o f essential imports on the positive list under component 1would defacto exclude
generally may facilitate            the financing o f imports inthe parts o f the DRC where military operations are
government expenditures not         taking place and where Government could purchase them in support o f such
aligned with the objectives o f the operations. An agreement with government on the use o f counterpart funds
emergency recovery program.         resulting from the reimbursement o f private sector imports under component 1for
                                    the Government Emergency Recovery Promamprovides further assurance that the
                                                            - -             - - .
                                    use o f Project funds for development purposes excludes payments for goods for



                                                                20

              R i S k S                                           RiskMitigation Measures                               Risk
                                                                                                                       Ratine
                ~    ~~    ~                                     ~    ~~~    ~~~~~
                                   military purposes.
Fundsmay be misusedas aresult The Projectwill be implementedby UCOP, aproject entitywith extensive
of continuedweak Government        experienceinBankproceduresandoperations(including under OP 8.00) and
financialmanagementand             satisfactory performancewith respectto financialmanagement andprocurement.
procurement.                       All Projectcomponentswill be auditedwith attentionto component-specific
                                   fiduciaryriskswhere warranted. Inaddition, during appraisal, the Governmenthas
                                   preparedasimplified anti-corruptionplan(acceptableto the Bank), which includes,
                                   inter alia, an assessment of the risks associatedwith the implementationthe project   S
                                   componentsandthe correspondingmitigation measures.The final adoptedanti-
                                   corruptionplanwill be sent to the Bank at the latest one monthuponproject
                                   effectiveness.The Governmenthas also committedto establishing,within three
                                   months ofProjecteffectiveness,an adequateProjectmechanismto receive and
                                   processinan independentmanner, complaintsof fraudandcorruption- andensure
                                   effectiveinvestigationandprosecutionof crediblecomplaints. Particularattention
                                   will bepaidduring supervisionto the effectiveimplementationof these
                                   arrangements, andto compliancewith Bankanti-corruptionguidelines.


Risks Specific to Component 1-Financing of essential imports of critical goods and commodities
Reimbursementsmaybemade            Duringproject ?ppraisal,detailedproceduresandrequireddocumentationwere
for importsof goods that arenot    agreedwith Government. A component-specific audit will be conducted.
essential, havenot been                                                                                                  M
effectively delivered, or lack
adequatedocumentation.
Risks Specific to Component 2 -Financing ofprimary and secondary school teacher salaries
Teachers' lists against which      The Projectwill only finance the salariesofprimary and secondaryschoolteachers
paymentsare mademaynot be          who are on the public payroll. This payroll is subject to existingchecks and
accurateor leakages may occur      balances which are consideredsolid for the education sector.Moreoverspot checks
during the teacher payment         are conductedby variousstakeholdersincluding teachers' unions and the Bank and        S
process.                           other donor educationteams. To safeguardthe Projectthe component will disburse,
                                   usingthe retroactivefinancingmechanism, only 70 percentof the one-month
                                   equivalent of teachers' salaries.The balancewould bereimbursedsubject to an
                                   audit coveringboththe eligibility ofteachers' salariesandthe verification of
                                   payments.
Risks Specific to Component 3 -Financing State water and electricity bills
Paymentsmade to the utilities      Metershavebeeninstalledby SNEL andREGIDESO,therefore limitingthe risk of              M
are not reflectingthe actual State inappropriatebilling. Only meteredandcertified Statebills will bepaidunder this



Overallriskrating                                                                                                        H
Riskrating:H(High risk),S (Substantial risk), M(Moderate risk), N(Negligible or low risk)


                       G. TERMS AND CONDITIONS FORPROJECTFINANCING

49.        The Project is expected to be finded through a US$lOO million grant, which will cover
100 percent o f the expenditures (net o f taxes) as per OP 8.00 and the Country Financing
Parameters.

50.        Inlinewith OP 8.00, conditions are limitedto aminimum:

e                      Boardpresentation: None.

e                      Effectiveness: - Standard      legal requirements




                                                               21

                    Annex 1:DetailedDescriptionof ProjectComponents
    CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF: DRCEmergencyProjectto Mitigatethe
                                 Impactofthe FinancialCrisis


Component1:Supportto financingthe importsof essentialpoods andcommodities
JUS$58 Million)

Objectivesand results indicators

1.      This component aims to support the Government in sustaining the level o f key imports in
face o f the foreign exchange shortage resulting from the dramatic deterioration o f the external
environment since the onset o f the financial crisis in September 2008. Between mid-2008 and
end-2008 official gross reserve levels o f the Congolese Central Bank (BCC) have dropped from
over US$200 million to about US$39 million on January 27, 2009 (less than one week o f
imports), threatening the ability o f the economy to acquire necessary goods and commodities
from abroad. By temporarily financing critical imports under the emergency recovery program,
the component will help Government sustain economic activity while the economy adjusts, and
government mobilizes additional donor support and debt relief under the Enhanced HIPC
Initiative and MDRI.The government would also take an appropriate fiscal stance that supports
the necessary macroeconomic adjustments while sustaining key social expenditures.

2.      Performance indicators for this component will include: (i)    the availability o f critical
imported goods on the Congolese market and (ii)      the progress o f the payment o f imports o f
goods and commodities as planned.


Background

3.      Since September 2008, DRC's economic prospects have sharply deteriorated as a
consequence o f the changing international environment resulting from the financial crisis. In
addition, the country had to face a security and humanitariancrisis in its North Kivu province.
This deterioration comes against a backdrop of broadly adequate macroeconomic policies with
an originally targeted small fiscal surplus for 2008. Government therefore had little room
through its own policies to counteract the rapid and unprecedented fall in export revenue and its
impact on the Congolese economy.

4.      Declining mining revenue. Rapidly deteriorating export revenues have had an immediate
adverse impact on the balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves. Copper and cobalt
prices declined significantly, and as a result copper mining output in Katanga has been cut
dramatically since September 2008. Small artisanal mines are closing entirely, and larger mines
are sharply reducing investment programs and production. As a result the growth in copper
production slowed by 15 percent in2008 compared to an earlier projected increase o f 50 percent.
Total copper output i s projected to remain unchanged in 2009 with large recently completed



                                                22

mines starting production and most small labor-intensive mines closing. Please see charts below
on export revenues.



       Ryrr 1A DcmoaaticRmublie of Congo Erporl RN~YIS Commodity, 1001-08 (US$ million)
                                                     by

 l 4 0 W 1
          I
         i
 12'wo
 10,000



   6.OW  1
         ~




   6.000



   4.000



   2,000



       0




               Figure 1.DRC Prices of Selected export products
                                   end 2000= 100
       600



       500

                    -Copper          --tiold     -*-Oil

       400



       300                                                                             y
                                                                                         I
       200



       100



          0
           2000    ZOO1    2002         2003     2004    2005       2006       2007      2008




5.             Widening of current account dejkit. The immediate impact o f the crisis in 2008 is a
widening o f the current account deficit (including transfers) by 10percentage points compared to
2007, and by about 7 percentage points (up to 12 percent o f GDP) compared to pre-crisis
projections for 2008. The deficit reflects the combination o f the drop o f export values since
September, high costs o f imports following the food and fuel crisis, and high import growth
related to the investment boom inthe early part o f the year. Despite a projected sharp decline in
investment-related import volumes in2009, the further drop inexport values (US$900 million or
8 percent o f GDP) would increase the current account deficit (including transfers) at about 21
percent o f GDP in 2009. The resulting overall BOP financing gap for 2009 i s now projected at
about US$592 million.

6.             Depletion of resewes. As a result o f the sharp decline inexport revenues and expenditure
pressures resulting from security spending and related humanitarian crisis for the Eastern part o f
the country, official gross foreign exchange reserves have declined from over US$200 million
mid-year to US$39 million on January 27, 2009. The decline inexport revenues has also led to a
drop inforeign-exchange-denominated bank deposits, raising further pressures on the Congolese
franc. The low reserve levels and drop in foreign-exchange-denominated bank deposits seriously



                                                                                        23

undermines the ability o f the central bank to assure an adequate level o f foreign exchange for
financing o f imports, with a specter o f serious shortages o f essential goods and commodities if
reserves decline further. The country's inability to continue key imports would deepen the
economic and social crisis caused bythe worldwide economic downturn.

7.      Macroeconomic policy. The government aims to stimulate economic growth and private
sector development by providing a stable macroeconomic environment. During 2008 growth
picked up thanks to a rapid expansion inthe mining, construction andtrade sectors. Inflation also
increased, initially because o f security related fiscal expenditures in late 2007 and early 2008,
and later because o f the increase in food and oil prices. Going forward, growth is projected to
decline due to a contraction in the mining sector and a slowdown in construction and trade.
Inflation is projected to moderate by appropriate monetary policy, helped by a decline in
commodity prices.

                              2006             2007           2008           2009          2010
                              Act.             Act.           Est.           Proj.         Proj.
Real GDP growth (%)             5.6             6.3            8.2            4.4           7.4
Consumer prices, % e.0.p.      18.2            10.0           27.6           12.0          11.5


8.      Fiscal policy. The decline in commodity prices has reduced fiscal revenues. Oil
companies operating offshore and inBas Congo contributed some 3.7 percentage points o f GDP
to 2008 revenues, which are projected to fall to 1.9 percentage point o f GDP in 2009. At the
same time the security and humanitarian crisis in North Kivu creates additional expenditure
pressures. The budget i s managed on a cash basis and, as the government is committed to
restraining monetary financing o f the deficit, revenues determine the level o f expenditures.
However, during the period o f buoyant growth during the first half o f 2008 revenues exceeded
the projections o f the IMF-staff monitored program by some 1.5 percentage points. The
additional revenues were allowed to feed into higher expenditure with only modest savings.
Going forward the Government i s respondingto the crisis by limitinggovernment expenditure to
essential outlays, and mobilizing additional short-tern donor support. In the absence o f donor
support the authorities appear to be ready to cut essential social expenditures.

9.      Social impact of fiscal policy. Dramatic cuts on social expenditure would prevent the
implementation o f the Government's program and potentially destabilize the country. The
program o f the new government that took office inOctober 2008 aims to (a) establish peace and
security, (b) maintain macroeconomic stability and growth, and (c) improve access to social
services. Cuts in social services may further undermine the social and political stability o f the
country.

10.     Monetary and exchange ratepolicy. The DRC economy is largely dollarized and over 90
percent o f bank deposits and loans are foreign-exchange denominated. Inthe wake of the terms
o f trade shock, the Congolese Franc has depreciated gradually with the exception o f an event in
January. On January 8 the parallel market exchange rate moved by 17 percent in a single day.
This spike in the exchange rate led the Central Bank to raise the interest on commercial bank
deposits with the Central Bank to 55 percent and the Central Bank also intervened modestly. In



                                                24

response commercial bank deposits with the Central Bank increased and the exchange rate
stabilized (Chart 3). However, the already high level o f interest rates, as well as the limited
amount of reserves reduce the scope for a further response to an unexpected event. Please see
chart below.


      Chprt3. Damocrauc Republic of Congo: PrMcCoogolpis US5 exchangerdc,Novsmbtr3,2008 JMUW 12,2009
                                                        -                                        __


 800      1                                                                      January 8-9,2009
              -0ficial   rate


 750 -




 500 J

   Sourn:BarqueCentalede Congo


11.        Inthis context, the authorities seek to accessthe IMF's external shock facility as soon as
feasible. Government also is making efforts to access H P C and MDRI debt relief in the
medium-term to move to a more sustainable external framework. To this end, Government i s
working on a revision to a non-concessional contract with China, in order to establish a new
PRGF-supported program, which in turn i s a requirement for the HIPC completion point.
Government also stands ready to adjust its fiscal policies further to maintain macroeconomic
stability, as evidenced by the track record in2007 andthe small fiscal imbalances inpast years.

12.        It is also important to note that the Government has also embarked on a program o f the
following important reforms for the economy (currently supported under other IDA-funded
operations):

Public enterprise reform. The adoption o f four laws on the state disengagement from public
enterprises inJuly 2008 represents a major step forward inpublic enterprise reform. Under these
laws, public enterprises will be transformed either into companies (for public enterprises with a
commercial orientation) or into "public establishments" (for public enterprises that do not have a
commercial mandate). This will therefore open the possibility for the Government to disengage
(either partially or fully) from public enterprises with a commercial mandate. Public enterprises
represent a major bottleneck for the development o f the DRC economy, as they control key
sectors o f the economy: water, power, railway, airports, port and miningand are not able to offer
the required services. The disengagement o f the Government from their operations, resulting in
improved governance, i s considered as the most appropriate solution to allow an enhanced
performance o f these enterprises. Inparallel to the adoption o f the laws, the Government has put
inplace management contracts inthe three main transport public enterprises: SNCC, RVA and
ONATRA. This also represents a major step forward. The Government has also committed to
establishing management contracts inthe water andpower utilities (REGIDESO and SNEL). It i s



                                                                                   25

important that the momentum for reform be kept and that the implementing decrees o f the laws
be approved rapidly.

Investment climate reform. The President o f the DRC sent the Letter o f Intent to join OHADA
to the President o f Senegal, the depository country o f the OHADA treaty inFebruary 2008. It i s
expected that the OHADA treaty will be discussed at the Parliament once it reconvenes (in
March). The adoption o f the OHADA business legal framework would also represent a major
step forward as it would allow the muchneededmodernizationo fthe outdated business laws.

Financial sector reform. The financial sector has been growing strongly in the last two years,
with new players joining the market. One dynamic player is focusing on the lower end market
andhas demonstrated to other banksthat it was also profitable to offer financial services to lower
income households. Several other banks have therefore followed and are now offering deposit
accounts with small minimumbalances. Two regional banking actors have also recently entered
the market which is also likely to energize the sector. However, the financial sector i s still
fragile. There are concerns regarding the growth pace o f some institutions, the entry o f new
players without strategic banking partners andthe weak capacity o fthe supervisory authorities.

Key elementsof design

13.       The design o f the component builds on fast-disbursing components in emergency
operations under OP 8.00 and its predecessor OP 8.50 using a positive list o f imports.

14.       Activities financed under the Project. The project would reimburse the government for
the delivered cost in foreign exchange (excluding import duties and taxes) o f private sector
imports of key goods and commodities on a positive listsgDuring appraisal, the Government and
the Bank agreed on the following imports to be included inthe positive list:

              Foodproducts
              Constructionmaterials
              Telecommunication equipment
              Petroleum and fuel products

15.       Implementation arrangements. The project will be overseen by an interministerial
committee and be implemented by the Project Implementing Unit (UCOP). Key implementing
agencies for component 1 are the Ministry o f Finance, the Central Bank and OFIDA (the
National Customs Agency - "Office des Douanes et Assises"). The Ministry o f Finance, by way
of the customs directorate, will provide the necessary documentation for quantity and values of
eligible imports listed on the positive list. The exact list of evidentiary documentation for the
physical delivery o f imports, their prices, and the underlying payment to foreign suppliers was
finalized at appraisal and agreed with the government",                in a similar way than what had been


  Under OP 8.00 and the country financing parameters, the Bank could finance import duties and taxes. However,
given the objective o f the component to provide foreign exchange sufficient to sustain imports o f key goods and
commodities, the financing o f taxes and duties would not be consistent with the objectives.
loThe documentation agreedupon includes: (i) of import documentation and invoices for Eligible Imports
                                                proof
certified by the Customs Office, inform satisfactory to the Association (Licenced'Importation ;Avis de


                                                         26

done successhlly under a prior operation inDRC approved in 2003                         UCOP will maintain the
necessary documentation and verify the eligibility o f expenditure before submitting the
documentation for reimbursement to IDA.

16.       Procurement. The grant proceeds will be made available to finance private sector imports
against evidence that the imported goods were on the positive list andprocured following agreed
procurement procedures. Imports financed with grant proceeds would be limitedto goods from
countries inaccordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. No more than 50 percent o f the
component will be usedto finance any class o f eligible imports on the positive list without prior
approval by IDA. Procurement o f imports by the private sector below US$1 million would be
based on established commercial practices and not be subject to prior review. The Bank has
reviewed private sector practices for the positive list and commercial practices for these goods
comply with relevant Bank standards. Contracts above US$1 million will be based on modified
International Competitive Biddingand are subject to prior review by IDA.

17.       Disbursement. The disbursement would be made against 100 percent o f the delivered
costs o f imports (excluding taxes and duties) on the positive list. The minimum import contract
amount for disbursement would be set at US$200,000 to avoid excessive transaction costs.
Disbursement would be against statement o f expenditures for private sector procured imports on
the positive list. The Government would open a designated foreign exchange account at the
central bank and the Bank would disburse into this account at the request o f government. The
government could request advances o f up to US$10 million, and the account would be
replenished as and when needed, based on the evidence provided regarding imports on the
positive list.

18.       Counterpart funds. The Government has agreed that once eligible imports have been
identified, an amount equivalent to the eligible imports in foreign exchange would be credited
from the designated foreign exchange account to a dedicated government treasury account.
Disbursements out o f the dedicated account against budgetary expenditure could only be made
for activities insupport o f the Government Emergency Recovery Program or the Project, andnot
for any military spending. IDA will audit both the designated foreign exchange account and the
dedicated treasury account.

19.       Retroactivefinancing. Retroactive financing o f up to US$24 million would be provided
to finance import expenditures incurred within twelve months before Grant signing.

20.       Safeguards aspects. The component is not expected to trigger safeguard policies.

21.       Expected timing of implementation. The component i s expected to be implementedduring
March-July 2009. Disbursement o f retroactive financing would begin as early as March (once the


ve'rifcation; Facture ddfinitive d'importation; De'clarationpour 1'importation ddfinitive ou la Ddclaration en
exone'ration (IE) ou 1'Importation conditionnelle (IC) ou la Ddclaration E; Bill of Lading); and (ii)
                                                                                                    documentation
certified by Central Bank detailing the payments made by an importer for an Eligible Import, inform satisfactory to
the Association (Ordre de virement bancaire; avis depaiement de la banque commerciale de l'importateur).

11Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support Project


                                                          27

project becomes effective) andbe completedby end July 2009. The component is expected to be
completed (including audits) inSeptember 2009.

Component2: FinancinPsalaries of primary and secondary schoolteachersonthe public
payroll(US$16 million)


Objectivesand results indicators

22.     This component would contribute to the uninterrupted delivery o f critical public services
throughout the territory to protect recent gains ineducation andhelp the Government maintain its
objective o f one million new children in school in2009. The proposed component would assure
that government continues to pay teacher salaries in Kinshasa as well as outside the capital, to
provide income throughout the territory. This will be achieved through provision o f IDA
resources to finance the equivalent o f one month o f salaries for primary and secondary school
teachers who are currently registered on the public payroll (mkcanisks) and carrying out their
responsibilities inthe classroom or indesignated administrative functions.

23.     There are two expected outcomes o f this component, with the respective performance
indicators as follows:

    i.Componentdevelopment outcome: To ensuretheunintempteddelivery ofeducation
        services in the primary and secondary education (EPSP) sub-sector. One performance
        indicator will be used as follows: Government i s able to pay teachers' salaries on time
        over the next three months.

    ii.Intermediateoutcome:Toachievethetimelypaymentofprimaryandsecondaryschool
        teacher salaries. The indicator will be that the equivalent o f one month teachers' salaries
        are paid for the month identified.

24.     These indicators are appropriate, taking into consideration that the Government budget
for 2009 has allocated 12 months o f teacher salaries andthe Government i s committed to execute
the budget. Furthermore, in addition to the Bank's emergency financial support, it i s expected
that there will be the added value o f similar financial inputs fi-om the IMF and other donor
agencies in2009.


Background

25.     The Government's endorsement o f universal primary education and a Constitutional
(2006) commitment to free and compulsory primary education go hand-in-hand with the
government's need to demonstrate visible results on the ground. The Government has set a short
term target o f 1million new children inschool in2009. The DRC i s largely off-track to reachthe
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015, and the challenge i s greater than for other
African countries not only because of the size and diversity o f the Congolese population, but also
because o f the persistent problem o f equity o f access at the base o fthe system due to the decades
o f extreme erosion inservice provision.



                                                  28

26.    An estimated 5 million school-aged children do not attend school. Barelyhalfthe primary
school age population i s enrolled. There i s an estimated 6-point gender gap in net enrollments,
and only 3 students out o f 10 complete the primary cycle. These figures are worse in conflict-
affected zones.

27.     One o f the most complex challenges the government i s tackling i s to reverse the situation
inwhich households shoulder halfthe costs of financing the public education sector through an
elaborate system o f fees. This has perverse effects not only on access for those less able to pay,
but also in regard to quality. Students who do not pay the fees are not allowed to attend class
until they have done so. As a consequence, many pupils attend school irregularly and their
previous learning gains recede.

28.     Quality is abysmal in the public sector also because education infrastructure i s grossly
deteriorated. Textbooks and other essential inputs for learning are missing - in spite o f the
pronounced practice o f collecting fees. A regular presence o f the teacher in the classroom i s
therefore the critical factor for maintaining basic service provision.

29.     The major portion o f the education budget inthe DRC is allocatedto teachers' salaries,'2
and the Government has made efforts to pay on a regular monthly basis. Salary levels remain
       as for other sectors o f the civil service, but nonetheless are seen to be a significant
incentive for teachers to remain inschool. Incases where the Government was not able to pay all
teachers and/or on time, there have been strikes which have shut down schools for prolonged
periods.

30.     There is limitedfinancing for the education sector - allocated less than 2 percent o f GDP
compared to a 5 percent average in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Nonetheless, inrecent years the
DRC has increased the percentage o f the national budget allocated to education. In 2008, the
portion o f the national budget allocated to EPSP had risen to 9 percent, compared with 6 percent
in2002.

31.     The Government has started to establish a record o f accomplishment in re-engaging in
the sector, helping to restore the confidence o f development partners and enabling the donor
community to deliver and scale up its support to education. However, the Government will need
to keep up this momentum. Current levels o f financing for education in the DRC fall far below
the SSA average o f 20 percent o f national budget devoted to education. The DRC's sharply
deteriorated economic prospects for 2009 obviously render this objective more difficult.

32.     One major, joint government-donor effort has been initiated to reduce primary school
fees progressively ("Strate`gieNationale de Re`duction des Frais Scolaires ", March 2008), while
also improving the quality o f basic education. This sequenced plan calls for the fees'
replacement by Government funding. To contribute toward the financial requirements, the World
Bank, the leading external financier in the education sector, has been requested by the
Government and donors to prepare a Multi-donor Trust Fund (MDTF) for Education. This will


l2Thepercentagesof salary payments inthe EPSPbudget in2006 and2008 were 79% and96% respectively
l3The averagebase salaryofteachers is US$55 inthe Provinces andUS$85 inKinshasa.


                                                       29

be in addition to the existing US$l50 million IDA Grant for a 5-year Education Sector Project
(effective January 2008) and the US$45 million education component in the US$lSO million
IDA Grant for the Emergency Urbanand Social Rehabilitation Project ("EUSRP," effective July
2007). The MDTF will create a platform for all donors to harmonize their inputs strategically, to
give coherence and a longer term financing commitment for the sector.14The BritishDepartment
for International Development (DFID) has already committed to channel around eighty percent
o f its funding to the education sector through the MDTF. All three instruments above include
financing for operating costs o f service delivery. The EUSRP is enabling the Government to
make cash transfers to schools. The Education Project will provide additional financing for the
same purpose, once the E U S W has fully disbursed. Inaddition, pending a comprehensive census
o f teachers estimated to be completed in late 2009, the Education Project should provide
financing for the Government to increase the number o f (new) teachers on the public payroll.
The MDTF foresees financing insimilar areas, and inaddition proposes support for the operating
costs (not salaries) o f key administrative units in the thirty education provinces across the
country. These are critical institutional measures for the DRC to gear up on the supply side in
line with the political commitment to increase enrollments.

33.      Any disturbance in the education sector - such as teacher strikes after nonpayment of
salaries - could seriously jeopardize ongoing efforts. It i s in this context that the present
Emergency Operation provides essential bridge support to protect the functioning o f basic public
services. The education component would contribute to a successful completion o f the 2008-
2009 school year. Experience has shown that the first quarter o f the budget year (which starts in
January) is a period inwhich the government can have difficulty meeting its commitments due,
among other reasons, to low tax collection rates. These difficulties will be taken into account for
the timing of the tranche release from the education component o f the Emergency Support
Operation.


Publicpayroll systemfor teachers

34.      The component aims to use an existing government system which is generally
acknowledged to be among the best performing inthe DRC. The World Bank and partners have
assessed the teacher salary payment system through a systematic sequence o f research and
analysis which includes two public expenditure review^,'^ in-depthstudies o f the teacher salary
system,16 and technical audits o f the Department for Monitoringthe Payment o f Teacher Salaries
(Sewice de ContrSZe de la Paie des Enseignants, "SECOPE", which is a unit o f the MEPSP).
The SECOPE audits were conducted inassociation with the BelgianCooperation.

35.      Preparation o f the public payroll for primary and secondary school teachers begins with
the national SECOPE compiling the pay list (called "listings") from the data base o f authorized


l4The MDTFcanalsobe the vehcle for the DRCto receive fiture fbnding fromthe Educationfor All-FastTrack
Initiative(EFA-FTI).
15The mostrecent was conductedinMarch2008: Democratic Republic of CongoPublic ExpenditureReview.
ReportNo. 42167-ZR. Poverty ReductionandEconomic Management3, WorldBank Africa Region.
16For example:JVerhaghe.SIDA: Salaire Insufisant Dificilement Acquis -Addressing the Issue ofeffective
teacher payrollexpenditure inthe DRC, February2007.



                                                   30

positions and indicating the pay grades according to training and professional experience o f the
respective teachers, their affiliation by public school network (see below) as well as their
geographic location according to the 30 educational provinces across the 11 administrative
provinces o f the country. The pay list also specifies the CaisCongo (see below) to which the
Central Bank is to send the teacher's salary payment, and the distribution point o f closest
proximity to the teacher's school. These listings, complete with the salary figures, are sent by
MEPSP to the Payroll Directorate at the Budget Ministry. Inprinciple, the listings are also sent
to each provincial office o f the SECOPE and to managers o f the networks o f public schools,
manyo fwhom are from themajor religious associations inthe DRC. InKinshasa, the listings are
received directly by the public accountant in charge o f a particular area at the Payroll
Directorate. In the provinces, the provincial SECOPE prepares a breakdown of appropriations
based on school listings, and the MEPSP public accountant uses this breakdown to execute
payment to managers o f the networks (or to schools inspecific cases).

36.     The Payroll Directorate at the Budget Ministry is responsible for paying all civil servants
and government employees. This Directorate prepares the payment validation statement and
submits it for the Budget Minister's signature. Once signed, it i s sent to the Finance Minister via
the expenditure chain. After receiving the stamp o f the Finance Minister, the Treasury Director
(directeur du trksor et ordonnancement) at the Ministry o f Finance sends the computerized
payment order (Ordre de Paiement Inforrnatisk: OPI) to the Central Bank. The computerized
payment order is distributed by the Provincial Directorates o f the Central Bank, called "Caisses
Congo" (CaisCongo), or by the Senior Public Accountant for Expenditure (Comptable Public
Principal de Dkpenses: CPPD) for Kinshasa.

37.     A transfer order (Ordre de Virement: OV) is sent by the Central Bank in Kinshasa via
Internet to its provincial branches or passed on to the CaisCongo. The provincial deputy account
manager (Ordonnateur Dklkguk Provincial: OD) sends the package to the provincial SECOPE,
which prepares a breakdown by manager. This breakdown is then submitted for the stamp o f the
Provincial Payroll Commission (although some provinces do not have such a commission). After
being stamped, the breakdown is sent to the OD, who prepares a notice to make funds available
(Mise d Disposition des Fonds: MAD) addressed to the CaisCongo for the Senior Public
Accountant o f MEPSP, who then withdraws the funds. The withdrawal is based on a funding
dispatch note (Bordereau d'Envoi de Fonds: BEF) issued by the CaisCongo. The accountant
deposits the funds in the "strong room" o f the Finance Provincial Division and pays the
managers (or, insome cases, the school directors).

38.     The Public Accountant pays the salaries directly to the school director or, incertain cases,
to the payroll agents who serve as intermediaries for distant schools. The school directors pay the
teachers. Teachers receive their pay and sign next to their name on the SECOPE or school
payrolls.

39.     Reporting. The school directors keep one copy o f the signed payrolls (&tats de paie
acquittks) and return the other copies (listings acquittks) along with a pay report (rapport de
paie) to the school managers, the SECOPE provincial office and the Public Accountant. The
accountant forwards the original o f the signed listings and the attestation de paiement to the
General Accounting Office for justification. The field units and provincial branches o f the



                                                31

provincial SECOPE also prepare a payroll report, addressed to the national SECOPE, which
includes, in particular, amounts actually paid, remainders, and changes observed. Maintaining
the public accounting falls under the responsibility o f the Office o f Public Accounting at the
Finance Provincial Division.

40.     Veracity o f payroll execution. The two key issues are: (i) accuracy o f the personnel
                                                                     the
lists, and (ii)
             the risk o f leakages inthe flow o f hnds duringthe payment process. Interms o f the
former, SECOPE has the critical role o f (i)     maintaining and updating the database on open
positions and authorized schools, and on active teachers, including their service records, and (ii)
preparing the payroll, participating in ex-ante controls as summarized above. The managers o f
the school networks and school heads also have a role in that every month, they harmonize
school payrolls and the SECOPE listings; for example to remove outgoing teachers from the
listings. SECOPE does not handlethe cash transfers o fthe teacher payroll system.

41.     The EPSP teacher personnel data bases were created in 1985 and have been maintained
by SECOPE since that time. The ensuing civil war which divided the country also prevented
SECOPE from updating the database for all schools as it did not receive reports from the field.
More recently, and particularly since the elected government took office in 2007, the SECOPE
has been catching up so its database reflects more closely the reality on the ground. The database
is fully computerized which increases its accuracy over the former system o f manually
maintained records. The teacher corps usually shows more movement (interms o f changing their
place o f employment) compared with other categories o f civil servants, and this represents a
continual challenge to maintaining accurate teacher payroll lists. Under these circumstances,
which are not unique to the DRC, there i s a risk that a teacher could have moved to a new school
while hisher salary would still be sent for awhile to their former school. Insuch cases, this may
be considered evidence o f a "ghost" teacher. At the same time, survey research has shown that
under these situations, schools often use the salary (for the departed teacher) to pay teachers in
the same school who are not yet formally registered (non-m&cunis&s)on the public payroll. The
census should provide a more systematic assessment.

42.     Causes o f discrepancy. Research has shown that discrepancies between actual personnel
and the payroll are mainly due to the following factors: absent, deceased, transferred persons;
substitutes; new recruits; payment o f personnel appointed to schools which have not been
formally vetted by SECOPE; incorrect school name; or transfer o f schools from one CuisCongo
to another (creating a discrepancy between amounts transferred and amounts to be paid). The
SECOPE nonetheless judges that discrepancies are minor, estimating that ten percent o f the
payroll might be inaccurate. Thus, the possible existence o f "ghost" teachers out o f a total
payroll o f some 248,713 teachers i s relatively low. The 2008 Public Expenditure Review
assumed the level o f loss associated with nonexistent personnel was even lower, inthe range o f 1
to 5 percent (anda corresponding loss infinancial terms o fUS$1.5 million and US$7 million per
year from the overall teacher payroll o f over US$200 million. The census will provide more
evidence. In the meantime, findings under the EUSRP appear to corroborate SECOPE's
assessment. In the process o f making cash transfers to some 26,248 primary and secondary
schools during June - September 2008, the EUSRP reported that SECOPE's records were
inaccurate for only 40 schools. In the majority o f these cases, the schools had been registered
twice in the SECOPE database. This poses the possibility that in terms o f the payroll for this



                                                 32

same period, the wages authorized to be paid may have exceeded the number o f teachers, and if
not reported, would constitute a form o fpayment o f "ghost" teachers.

43.     There is positive evidence o f the veracity o f the payroll system. The tracking survey
conducted for the 2008 Public Expenditure Review found that at the schools visited and during
the months involved, more than 95 percent o f the wages disbursed by the Treasury reached
teachers. However, there was also evidence o f leakages. The misappropriation rate was variable:
some teachers received 100 percent of their wages while others received 60 percent. This rate
also varied by month in the same school, which shows that the results could be very different,
depending on the choice o f sample. The misappropriation rate was highest in the Province o f
Bandundu (5.8%),     followed by Equateur (3.5%); the lowest rate was in Kinshasa (0.3%),
probably reflecting the schools' proximity to the center o f power and the stronger "voice" of
teachers in Kinshasa. Also based on this survey, one third o f all leaks can be attributed to
transportation costs - which could be justifiable - while the remaining leaks represent irregular
or fraudulent expenses. Eighty percent o f the fraudulent cases were attributed to managers
(intermediaries in Bandundu and Equateur, but not in Kinshasa), 14 percent to Public
Accountants, andthe rest to school directors.

44.     The Public Accountants regularly deduct amounts from wage packages for "finds
transportation, risk, and security." Managers (of the networks o f public schools managed by the
respective religious associations) deduct amounts from the packages for transportation expenses,
tithing (Protestant network), ecumenical activities, payments by proxy, and debt repayment. In
one case, it was observed that the Provincial SECOPE (apparently in complicity with the Public
Accountant) subtracted amounts from each school's wage package for the purpose o f "payroll
supervision." Such practices are irregular or fraudulent, depending upon the case. Evidence does
not suggest that they are carried out within a concerted framework.

Key elementsof the componentdesign

45.     The design o f the component builds on fast-disbursing components in emergency
operations under OP 8.00 including ongoing operations inthe DRC inthe education sector.

46.    Activitiesfinanced under the Project. This component will finance one month of salaries
for primary and secondary school teachers. The amount o f financing for this component
corresponds to a total salary envelope o f 9,913,277,471 FC17corresponding to the salaries o f the
248,713 teachers primary and secondary school teachers carrying out their responsibilities inthe
classroom or in designated administrative finctions ("mCcanisCs assis et debouts") included on
the Government payroll for the month o f November 2008, and as communicated by the
SECOPE.

47.     The proposed component o f the Emergency Operation would finance teachers who are
already registered on the public payroll. In contrast, the on-going Education Sector Project will
finance a specific number o f teachers who are to be added to the payroll. As the SECOPE
database does not contain information on all teachers who are not yet registered on the public



"(700FC=US$l)



                                                 33

payroll (non mkcanisks), the ESP had a disbursement condition that stipulates a census'8 o f all
teachers - mkcanisks as well as non mkcanisks teachers inthe public sector and also teachers in
the private schools - must be conducted satisfactory to IDA before the Project disburses any
funds for teachers' salaries. This control is to give assurance that the identified teachers are
justified interms o f formally documented supply-sideneeds.

48.       Implementation arrangements. UCOP will be in charge o f the implementation o f this
component. The main structures also involved under this component are: the Finance Ministry
via the Public Accountants, the MEPSP via its department SECOPE, and the Central Bank o f
Congo. These structures will be responsible for submittingto the Project ImplementingAgency,
UCOP, the following documentation required as proof for IDA to disburse the financing for
teachers' salaries under this component: (i)        Payment Order from Treasury to Central Bank (ordre
de paiement informatisk P) (responsable entity : Central Bank); (ii)Salary enveloppe
(I'enveloppe salariale) sent by MEPSP to Ministry o f Budget (responsable entity: MEPSP-
 SECOPE); (iii)      Formal transfer order (ordre de virement) sent by Central Bank to CaisCongo;
(responsable entity : Central Bank); (iv) Payment Order (Ordre d'Envoi des Fonds (O.E.F.)) ;
(responsable entity : Ordonnateur Dklkguk Provincial) ; (v) Funding dispatch note (Bordereau
d'Envoi de Fonds) (responsable entity : Central Bank) ;and (vi) Receipt signed by the manager
o f funds (dkcharge/reque) (responsable entity : Minister o f Finance).

49        Retroactivefinancing. Retroactive financing o f up to US$16 million will be provided to
finance 100percent o f the total salary envelope o f November 2008, documented by Government
as paid to the eligible primary and secondary school teachers.

50        Disbursement.        The disbursements o f the retroactive portion will consist first in
reimbursing 70% percent o f the teachers' salaries already paid excluding the double o f estimated
risk o f fraud under this component as discussed in Annex 1. The balance o f this component
would be disbursed into the Treasury Account subject to a conclusive audit on the eligibility o f
teachers' salaries. Reimbursement would be made through transfer into a Treasury Account held
at BCC against supporting documents cleared by UCOP and pre-screened by SECOPE under the
Government standard procedures. Inthe event the audit concludes that the reimbursements paid
retroactively were higher than the eligible teachers' salaries, the Recipient will promptly refund
IDA

51        Procurement. The grant proceeds which will be used for one external audit o f the
education component will be subject to the standard procurement procedures o f the World Bank.
The terms o f reference for the audit will be subject to prior review by IDA, and its results must
be satisfactory to IDA.The UCOP will beresponsible for recruiting the external auditor.

52        Safeguards aspects. The component is not expected to trigger safeguard policies.


l8The teacher census is comprehensive andwillcount allteachers active inthe public sector, whether or notthey
are currently on the government payroll. It will also update the mapping of schools (carte scoluire). This work is a
joint initiative of the Planning Ministry, the MEPSP and the Civil Service Ministry. The operation i s financed by
DFID. The technical work is being conducted by a mixed team of government and international experts who have
been contracted. Results are expected inlate 2009.



                                                        34

53.     Other risks and mitigating measures. There is limited risk that this component will
finance non-eligible expenses as explained in the risk matrix below. The risks o f financing
"ghost" teachers arejudged to be minor. The mitigating measures proposed inrelation to the risk
factors identified above are as follows:

                          Risk                                ~~ Mitigating measure(s)
Discrepancies between the list o f teachers on the i)SECOPE Provincial offices ongoing data
payroll and the list o f teachers paid             collection to update payroll list used at the
                                                   beginning o f each monthly cycle to establish the
                                                   payroll
                                                   ii)Submissionofspecifieddocumentsrequiredas
                                                   proof for IDA to disburse for teachers' salaries
                                                   under this component
                                                   iii)Expostaudittocomparelistofteachersonthe
                                                   payroll and the list o f teachers actually paid, prior
                                                   to making payment o f the second tranche, thus
                                                   significantly minimizing the risk o f ineligible
                                                   expenditures.
Leakages in flow o f funds during the salary i)Expost audit o f the component
payment process

54.     Ongoing mitigating measures are the built-inchecks and balances inthe existing teacher
payroll process, as described earlier inthis annex. These mechanisms include the prominent role
o f the faith-based organizations as paymasters for the majority o f schools (75%) in the public
sector. Furthermore, the evidence from existing research i s that the SECOPE process does
continually update the data on teachers inschools.

55.     Expected timing of implementation. Disbursement o fretroactive financing would beginas
early as March 2009. The component i s expected to be completed (including audits) by October
2009.


Component 3: FinancinP State water and electricity bills and proiect manapement (US$26
million)

Sub-Component 3 (A) and 3 (B): Financinp of State water and electricity bills(US$23.4
Million)

Objectivesand results indicators

56.     By covering expenditures for public utility bills, the objective o f this component is to
prevent the crisis from aggravating the financial position o f the national water utility
(REGIDESO) and of the national electricity utility (SNEL) and causing services to deteriorate,
thus jeopardizing on-going recovery efforts.       Consumption by official government entities
accounts for a very sizeable share o f sales by these two utilities: 40 percent for REGIDESOand
25 percent for SNEL.



                                                 35

57.     The outcome indicators o f this component include: covering expenditures for public
utilitybills from January to June 2009.

Context

58.     The public entities whose water and electricity bills are paid by the Government, so-
called official entities or Instances OfJicieZles (IO) and EntitledAgencies or Ayants-Droits (AD)
(hereinafter collectively referred to as 10s) account for about 40 percent o f sales by volume and
43 percent o f REGIDESO's total billings and 25 percent o f sales inKWs supplied and the same
percentage o f SNEL billings. For years these bills have gone unpaid. Since 2005, the collection
rate from 10s by REGIDESO and SNEL stands at slightly less than 3 percent. This i s one factor
contributing to the deterioration o f their financial position with concomitant decline in the
quality and coverage o f their services.

59.     Better control andregular payment o fpublic agencies' water bills are one o f the pillars o f
the reform supported by the Bank-funded on-going Urban Water Supply Project (for
REGIDESO). Similar measures to deal with electricity bills are also necessary for the successful
implementation and sustainability o f the Regional and Domestic Power Markets Development
Project andfor the SouthernAfrica Power Market Project (implemented with SNEL) and for the
reform o f the power sector. They are also required in order to restore the financial viability o f
these utilities.

60.     Benefiting from an on-going support o f the Bank and other donors in these two socially
and economically critical sectors, the State has embarked on a comprehensive reform and
investment project for the two public utility companies responsible for these sectors. These
reforms include a commitment by the State to pay its electricity and water bills in a timely
manner. However, the impact o f the current financial crisis on the 2009 draft budget shows that
additional resources are necessary to ensure that the State i s able to honor these commitments
and that REGIDESO and SNEL will not suffer from State unpaid bills in 2009. Absent regular
payment o f bills for which the State i s responsible, these public utility companies would face
continued worsening o f their financial position with concomitant decline in their services. This
would undermine the start-up o f programs undertaken by the Government for the recovery of
these sectors that are critical for improving living conditions and the competitiveness of the
economy.

Government strategyfor financing State water and electricity bills

Sub-component3 (A): Water sector (US$12 Million)

61.     The IO Action Plan. An important component of the reforms supported by the Urban
Water Supply Project is the reform o f procedures for processing and certifying REGIDESO bills
payable by the State in order to make them more reliable and accelerate payment. As part o f
preparations for the Project, a Working Group comprising representatives o f the Budget and
Finance Ministry and of REGIDESO drew up an Action Plan (IO Action Plan) to address the
problem indepth. The IO Action planis articulated around two objectives:



                                                   36

        To ensure better control and regular payment o f public agencies' water bills through: (i)
        realistic budgeting; (ii) payment o f advances, with quarterly adjustment based on
                                monthly
        actual consumption; and (iii)   the simplification and modernization o f billing systems and
        procedures including IT and network links between key units in REGIDSO and in the
        Budget Ministry (specifically the Direction de I'Intendance et des Cre`dits Centralise`s
        (DIG-CC).


    0   To reduce consumption through: (i)revision o f eligibility criteria; (ii)systematic
        metering; and (iii)  control o f leaks and rehabilitation o f the installations o f domestic
        networks o f the most important public users (i.e. those using more than 500 m3/month),
        primarilymilitarycamps andhealthfacilities.

62.     The overall goal of the Action Plan i s to reduce the total public sector water bill and
ensure its reliability and timely payment. The total bill is projected to decrease from 40 percent
to less than 20 percent o f REGIDESO total turnover, reflecting the combined effects o f the
Action Plan measures to enhance reliability, monitoring and wastage control; this will achieve
the twofold aim of containing overall consumption by public entities and making additional
production available for private customers: households, social agencies, trade, services and
industries.

63.     The reform o f billing, consolidation, certification and verification procedures introduced
by the Action Planwill make the process faster and more reliable from start (meter reading) to
finish (issue o f payment orders by the Finance Ministry). At the moment, this process often
takes 150 days or more and includes pointless compulsory stages that cause delays and
sometimes give rise to illegal payment demands. The I O Action Plan reform reduces this time
lag to between 60 and 70 days. Although this i s still a long time, it represents definite progress
andis reasonable inview o f the number o fREGIDESO centers and the fact that they are spread
over a large territory where communications are difficult. This relative lengthi s due to the fact
that the revised procedure rightly retains the principle o f one single payment after all bills have
been centralized. This avoids the need for local payments, with resulting risks.

64.     The revised circuit, which was prepared under the IDA funded water supply operation,
was reviewed during appraisal and is as follows: the REGIDESO operating centers (transmitting
centers) read meters in conjunction with the authorized agent o f the IO concerned and transmit
the summary table o f bills and relevant accounting documents to their Provincial Office. The
Provincial Offices check the list o f IOs, correct any discrepancies and compile totals by
ministries and agencies. These totals ("`province global invoices") are sent to the Head Office,
which registers them and prepares the "Republic global invoice" for transmission to the DIG-CC
in the Budget Ministry, which after checking and certification transmits them to the Finance
Ministryfor approval andissue o fthe payment order.

65.     The main changes introduced by the Action Plan are the following: (i)            elimination o f
levels o f approval that apparently added no value, at the level o f local and provincial authorities:
(ii)transmission o f a certified list o f bills to the center and archiving o f bills locally (instead o f




                                                    37

physically transferring them to Kinshasa); and (iii)   consolidation o f the analysis and certification
stages within DIG-CC.

66.     Under the Action Plan, billing will be based systematically on metering. In order to
ensure that this measure can be implemented as soon as the Action Plantakes effect, REGIDESO
has conducted a campaign to replace and install meters for all IO connections. So far, over 95
percent o f the connections now have meters.           Metering has revealed that consumption is
significantly lower (30 to 50 percent lower) than the flat-rate estimates, revealing systematic
over-estimates. The Action Plan sets specific targets for metering, limitingflat-rate billing to 2
percent o f total billing. This in fact represents total coverage, since at any time there are some
broken meters. In order to ensure that the Action Plan has a solid basis, DIG-CC conducted a
nation-wide survey to check that REGIDESO has installed meters on all IO connections.

67.     Signature o f the State bills Interministerial Decree by the Council o f Ministers (a draft o f
which has already been agreed on with the Bank) and the effective implementation o f the IO
Action Plan(designed as part of the UrbanWater Supply Project) i s necessary for the attainment
o f the goals o f Component 3. The Government committed to sign the Decree by end o f February
so that the revised procedures can be applied to first-quarter billing. Signature o f the State bills
Interministerial Decree i s also a condition o f effectiveness o f the Urban Water Supply Grant,
signed on January 19,2009.

IObilling;expected in2009

68.     The following table shows billing expected in each quarter of 2009, showing billing
based on measured consumption andthe 2 percent marginto cover broken meters.

                                                2009          Quarters (Fc Billion)
                                                total    lSt2nd            3rd     4th
               IObillings based on
               measured usage (including         16.2     4.05     4.05     4.05    4.05
               2% for brokenmeters)


69.     Financing o f the first two quarters of 2009 will require Fc 8.1 Billion or about US12
Million. The Project will finance 50 percent o f the REGIDESO bills payable by the State for
2009. This proportion could increase ifthe Fc depreciates against the US$.

Sub-component 3 (B): Electricity sector (US$11.4 Million)

Background

70.     S N E L provides services to about 5,000 10s andADS,which in2009 represented about 25
percent o f the utility-billed electricity; 67 percent o f its customers are located in the capital,
Kinshasa. For 2009, SNEL estimates that, if all 10s were properly metered, the amount billed
would be about U S 4 0 million; as some o f the 10s are billed on an estimated basis, the 2009
billings are expected to be US$30-$35 million. To address this issue, SNEL has initiated the



                                                  38

development o f an Action Plan (the SNEL Action Plan) providing suitable solutions for the key
problems: (i)   lack o f adequate metering o f 10s; (2) very low payment levels; (3) IO eligibility.
The goals and initiatives included inthe first phase o f the SNEL Action Plan are detailed below
and follow a similar approach to that adopted inthe IO Action Plano f REGIDESO. A working
group consisting o f representatives o f SNEL and o f the Ministries o f Energy, Finance and
Budget will beresponsible for monitoring progress and results.


    0    Ensuring better information and control and regular payment o f public agencies'
         electricity bills through: (i)completing the metering o f IO consumption to inform
         stakeholders and ensure realistic budgeting, and to provide the basis for monitoring
         consumption; in 2009, SNEL intends to install about 2,300 meters in 11 provinces at a
         cost o f US$180,000; and (ii)  monthly payment inthe form o f advances from the Ministry
         o fFinance, with quarterly adjustment based on actual metered consumption.


    0    Reducing IO electricity consumption through: (i) thorough review by an independent
                                                               a
         party o f the IO database, to ensure that each IO account is justified; (ii)revision o f IO
         eligibility criteria; (iii)
                                   systematic meteringo f all eligible IO customers; and (iv) control
         o f existing meters starting with the most important accounts.

71.      As in the case o f REGIDESO, an important component o f the SNEL Action Plan
concerns reform o f billing procedures inorder to make the process faster and more reliable from
start (meter reading) to finish (issue o f payment order).        At the moment, this circuit takes
between 120 and 200 days, depending on the delays in commencing the initial stages o f meter
readings andpreparation o fbills. The SNEL Action Planprovides for fewer approvals and faster
processing by local authorities. Under the SNEL Action Plan, the whole process would take 60
days.    This is relatively long because the principle is retained o f one single payment after
centralization o f all bills. This avoids the need for local payments andresultingrisks.

72.      The revised SNEL circuit has been reviewed duringproject appraisal. Its principal stages
are similar to those resulting from the REGIDESO Action Plan, startingwith the issue o fbills by
local commercial services and ending with compilation o f the "Republic GZobaZ Invoice"
transmitted by the Head Office to DIG-CC and then to the Finance Ministry, which authorizes it
and issues the payment order. The Project evaluation confirmed that, with the billing circuit
reforms envisaged inthe SNEL Action Plan, the time needed to prepare payment orders could be
reduced to 60 days, or a maximum o f 70 days, for Kinshasa 10s. This could be accepted as a
maximum compatible with the urgency o f the Project and the goal o f cash flow support.

73.      The formalities needed to implement the SNEL Action Plan in the divisions serving the
city o f Kinshasa and in other towns where SNEL plans to extend its metering campaign require
approval o f measures to reduce the approvals required at the local and provincial levels and
adoption o f guidelines and technical notes similar to what is planned for REGIDESO. The
Ministry o f Budget and Finance and SNEL have committed to implement these reforms by the
end o f February2009, so that they can start to be applied at least to 10s in Kinshasa in the first
quarter and could then be extended to the towns covered by the current meter installation
campaign.




                                                  39

IObillingexpected in2009

74.     The table below shows the expected billing for each quarter o f 2009, showing billings for
the Kinshasa 10s whose consumption i s metered and which represent about 60 percent o f total
billing.




75.     The Project will finance the billing o fKinshasa10swhose consumption is measured over
the first two quarters o f 2009. This will require twice Fc 3.01 Billion, Le. Fc 6.2 Billion, which
amounts to US$4.4 Millionper quarter or a total o f about US$9 million.

76.     The Project also contains an amount for the financing o f metered billing o f 10s in the
provinces o f Katanga and Bas-Congo, estimated at Fc 1.65 Billion or US$2.5 Million. This
amount could be released at the same time as the second-quarter payment, provided that the
program to install meters in these two provinces has been completed before March 15 and that
this has been duly verified by the DIG-CC staffwho recently verified meter installation after the
installation campaign covering all Kinshasa 10s. The total amount included inthe Project for the
S N E L budget is therefore Fc 5.42 Billion.

77.     The 2009 budget and IO billing for 2009. The current financial crisis has noticeably
affected the 2009 budget. Although additional resources for the payment o f water and electricity
bills were included inthe amount o fFc 12Billion for REGIDESO and Fc 6 Billion for SNEL,
these amounts havebeen reducedto Fc 4.2 Billion for REGIDESO andFc 3 Billion for SNEL.

78.     It is important that the 2009 budget provides for realistic measures to ensure payment o f
water bills by 10s in 2009. In order to ensure payment in 2009 o f the REGIDESO and S N E L
State bills, the Government has committed to proceed to a reallocation o f the Budget. Inorder to
achieve the goal o f covering water and electricity bills, the amounts included for this purpose in
the 2009 budget should be increased as follows:

                      Budnet reauiredto cover I O meteredbills in2009 (Fc Billion)
                                Existing        Required
                                 budget           budget        contribution
                                                                  Project          Shortfall

              REGIDESO            4.2              16.2             8.1              3.9
              SNEL                 3               19.2             5.4              10.8




                                                 40

Key elementsof the componentdesign

 79.    Disbursements. According to the procedures summarized above, the payment order for
 the first quarter will be issued at the end o f May 2009 and the corresponding disbursement will
 take place around June 15, 2009. Similarly, the payment order for the second quarter will be
 issued at the end o f August 2009 and the corresponding disbursement will take place around
 September 15. The entire component should be completed (including technical audits) by the
 end o f November 2009. Upon effectiveness a Designated Account [B] will be opened at BCC.
 This component will be disbursed intwo payments. The first payment will be disbursed as an
 advance into the USD DA. The ceiling o f the advance will be US10 million which represents
 estimated State water and electricity bill for January 09 through March 09. The Ministry of
 Finance will collect pre-screen I O utility bills and submit a request for payment to UCOP.
 UCOP will review the eligibility o f the invoices, clear the request for payment and authorize
 BCC to approve the payment for SNEL and REGIDESO. The second advance payment, which
 represents estimated State water and electricity bills for the period April 09 to June 09, will be
 disbursed once the initial advance is documented through the submission o f statements of
 expenditures. Another Designated Account [C] will be opened under UCOP's direct
 management in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to pay the operating cost and audits.
 Disbursementwill be made against Statement o fExpenditures-SOE - underthis component 3.



               Disbursements                     1st             2nd              Total

                (US$ Million)              disbursement     disbursement      (US$ Million)
                                             June 2009         Sept. 2009
      Component3.A          REGIDESO             6.0              6.0               12
      Component3.B          SNEL                 4.5              6.9              11.4
                                  Total  I       10.5            12.9              23.4


80.     Implementation arrangements. UCOP will be in charge o f overseeing this component.
Main actors are: Ministry o f Finance (DIG-CC), Ministry o f Budget, REGIDESO, and 3NEL.A
focal point has been determined in each o f this institution to follow up on the implementation o f
the IO action for bothREGIDESO and SNEL.

81.     Under component 3 A), the Government has committed to adopt before end o f February
2009 the Interministerial Decree creating the Interministerial Committee (REGIDESO, Budget,
Energy, Finance, Portfolio) to coordinate and monitor implementation o f the above-mentioned
Action Plan. This condition i s already a condition o f effectiveness o f the water supply project. In
order to facilitate monitoring o f this measure, the summary o f the IO Action Plan and the draft
Decree already agreed with the Bank as part o f the UrbanWater Supply Project.

82.     Under Component 3 B), the Ministries o f Budget and Finance committed to confirm the
implementation o f the revised procedures defined in the SNEL Action Plan for the billing and
payment o f metered electricity consumption by 10s in Kinshasa and centers in the provinces o f
Katanga and Bas-Congo. The SNEL Action Plan was reviewed during project appraisal. The
completion by March 15, 2009 o f the SNEL campaign for the installation o f meters at all IO



                                                  41

connections in the provinces o f Katanga and Bas-Congo, duly certified by the verification
commission appointed by the Budget Ministry (DIG-CC), will be a prerequisite for the inclusion
o f bills concerning metered electricity consumption by the State in those two provinces in the
second tranche.

83.     Procurement. Under this component 3 A) and 3 B), procurement will be limited to the
external technical audits to be carried out upon disbursement of the second tranche (October
2009), according to TOR acceptable to the Bank.

84.      Safeguards aspects. The component is not expected to trigger safeguard policies.

85.     Expected timing of implementation. The component is expected to be implementedduring
March-November 2009.

86.     Monitoring indicators. The following intermediate result indicators were agreed during
appraisal: (i) payments to REGIDESO and SNEL (Kinshasa) for consumptionby the State
               actual
during the first two quarters o f 2009; (ii)       payment orders and supporting documentation
transmitted to UCOP within 70 days following the last day o f each quarter.

Sub-ComDonent3 (C). ProiectManapementCosts (US$2.6 Million)


87.      This sub-component will finance:

         (i)Operating costs o fUCOP (estimated at US$0.2 Million), i.e. the incremental expenses
         incurred by UCOP on account of Project implementation, management, and monitoring,
         including for office space rental, utilities, and supplies, bank charges, communications,
         vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance,
         travel and supervision, salaries o f contractual and temporary staff. The Budget o f UCOP
         to manage the proposed operation, amounting to US$0.2 Million, was reviewed during
         appraisa1.

         (ii) auditoftheProjectaswelltechnicalandfinancialauditsofeachcomponent;(ii)
             The
         consulting services (for the mid-term review workshop,. ..) associated with the
         implementationo f the project. Cost o f consulting services i s estimated at US$2.4 Million.
         Those services are included in a simplified procurement plan o f activities which was
        prepared andreviewed duringappraisal.




                                                   42

                              Annex 2: Results Frameworkand Monitoring
   CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: DRC EmergencyProjectto Mitigatethe
                                   Impactof the FinancialCrisis

PDO:Help mitigate the immediate and severe impact ofthe global financial crisis onDRC's
economy by providing short term transitional support to fund critical imports andmaintain
targeted essential services.
      PDO Outcomes                   Outcomeindicators                 Use of results information
                                                                      (a) Monitor the CPI as an
(A).Key imported goods       (A) Shortages o fkey commodities         indicator to assess the
are available on the local   (fuel, imported food, construction       availability o f goods critical
market (fuel, imported       materials) over the next 3 months        for the economy on the
food, construction                                                    Congolese market
materials)


(B).Government is able to    (B)Number o fmonths teachers             (b) track the continuity o f
pay teachers' salaries on    receive timely payments (target 3        the provision o f education
time                         months)                                  services

(C) Increasedrecovery o f
Government water and         (C) Increasedrecovery o f                (c) track the progress o f
electricity bills            Government water bills (target:          recovering the public utility
                             80%)                                     bills to improve financial
                                                                      outlook o f the water and
                             Increasedrecovery o f Government         electricity utilities
                             electricity bills (target 80%)
IntermediateResultsfor       IntermediateResultsIndicators            Use ofthe indicators
eachComponent

Component One.               1.1 Total Value (Quantity) o f
                                -                                     Track the progress o f the
Financing of essential       imported essential goods &               payment o f imports o f
imports of critical goods    commodities by the project funds         goods and commodities as
and commodities.             (US$58 Million)                          planned

Component Two.               2.1- Months o f primary and              Track the progress of
Financing ofprimary and      secondary education teacher salaries     payment o f school teachers
secondary school teachers    financedby the project funds (one        salaries as planned
salaries                     month)

Component Three.             3.1- Amount o f State water bills
Financing State water and    fully paid(US$12 Million)                Track the effectiveness o f
electricity bills                                                     government bills payment
                             3.2- Amount o f State electricity bills  system to allow corrective
                             fully paid(US$11.4 Million)              actions as may be necessary




                                                      43

                                  Arrangementsfor resultsmonitoring

                                                           Data Collecti 1and Reportii
                                       Baseline     YR1     Frequency        Data       Responsibility
                                        (2008)     (2009)  and Reports    Collection       for Data
                                                                         Instruments      Collection
     PDO Outcome Indicators
(A) Shortages o fkey commodities      0          0         Monthly       Statistical    Statistical
(fuel, imported food, construction                                       surveys inthe  Institute and
materials) over the next 3 months                                        context o f    UCOP .
                                                                         monthly CPI
(B)Number ofmonths teachers           12         3         Every three   Reports sent   EPSP-
receive timely payments                                    months        by the         SECOPE
                                                                         Provincial
                                                                         Education
                                                                         authorities to
                                                                         SECOPE
(C) % of bills recovered by the -                                        Ministry of    UCOP
ElectricityUtility
        - Water Utility               0%         80%       Everythree    Finance,
                                      3%         80%       months        REGIDESO
                                                                         and SNEL

Intermediate Results Indicators
1.1-Total Value (inUS$ Million)       0          58        Every six     Audit of       UCOP
of imported essential goods &                              months        component 1
commodities by the project funds
(disaggregated by type of good)
2.1- Months of primary and
secondary education teacher           0                    1report after Accounts of    Central Bank
salaries financed by the project                           the           the Central    of Congo
funds                                                      disbursement  Bank
                                                           o f March
                                                           2009

3.1- Amount of State water bills                           Every three   Water and      UCOP
fully paid                                       12        months        Electricity
                                                                         Bills paid by
3.2- Amount of State electricity                                         the Ministry

bills fully paid                                 11.4                    of Finance




                                                 44

                            Annex 3: Summaryof EstimatedProjectCosts
  CONGO,DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC OF: DRCEmergencyProjectto Mitigatethe
                                         Impactof the FinancialCrisis




                                                                                            cost
                                              Activities                                  US$ Million

COMPONENT A: FinancingimDortsof essentialgoods andcommodities                               58.00
                                                                                                ~~




COMPONENT B: Financingof primary and secondary schoolteachers salaries                      16.00
COMPONENT C: FinancingState water andelectricity bills (inclprojectimplementationcosts)     26.00

C1 Financing o f State Water Bills from January to June 2009                                12.00

C2 Financing o f State Electricity Bills from January to June 2009                          11.40

C3 Project implementing costs and consultant services (technical and financial audits)      2.60

TOTAL                                                                                      100.00




                                                           45

              Annex 4: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

   CONGO, DEMOCRATICREPUBLICOF: DRCEmergencyProjectto Mitigatethe
                                  Impactof the FinancialCrisis


SummaryProjectDescription

1.     The project objective i s to help mitigate the immediate and severe impact o f the global
financial crisis on DRC's economy by providing short term transitional support to fimd critical
imports andmaintaintargeted essential services.

2.     The proposed operation would make use o f OPBP 8.00's provisions to allow retroactive
expenditure up to 40 percent o f the grant amount inlight of immediate financing

CountryIssues

3.     The World Bank and other donors' assessments notably the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA), Public Expenditure Review (PER), and Public Expenditure
and Financial Accountability (PEFA) completed between 2002 and 2007 portray an
unsatisfactory economic and financial control environment including weak budgeting
preparation and control, financial reporting, external audit and human resources. In-depth
structural reforms have been launched in the areas o f economic governance, public expenditure
management, financial sector and public enterprises to strengthen capacity in public
administration. With the support o f the international community, the Government o f DRC i s
undertaking a series o f PFM reforms inbudget preparation and execution, adhesion to Treasury
forecasts, preparation of regular budget execution reports, and simplification o f the national
budget classification system. A new organic Law is currently being finalized. Although there is
reason for cautious optimism it will take time for these reforms to yield substantial
improvements in the management o f public funds. The overall fiduciary risk i s therefore still
considered as high.

RiskAssessment andMitigation

4.     The following Risk Identification Worksheet summarizes the significant risks with the




                                                         d simplify the    FM




                                               46

fiduciarv safermards
OverallInherent risk              H                                                S
Control Risk
Budgeting                         M    Grant    components     constitute  the   L
Budget execution may not be            activities themselves; they are simple
transparent                            and clearly detailed and budgeted.
                                       UCOP will monitor its execution
                                       through     the  integrated    financial
                                       software.
Accounting                         S   UCOP       has    a    well-functioning   M
Delays and ineffective audit           integrated FM system which will be
trail                                  used for the Project.
Internal control                  H    Existing internal controls o f UCOP         S
Quick              disbursement        are satisfactory and will apply.
procedures may impede the
overall      internal    control
mechanisms o f the operation
Funds-flow                         S   IDA disbursement will consist mostly      M
Misappropriatiodmisallocation          in reimbursement of pre-determined
o f funds at BCC                       expenditures     after    pre-screening
                                       Strong banking arrangements         are
                                       agreed upon to secure the funds held
                                       at BCC.
Financial reporting                S   A simplified format o f IFRs to be        M
Delays and inaccurate reports          generated fiom the        computerized
                                       accounting system
Auditing                          H    Robust auditing arrangements        are     S
standard financial audit may           agreed upon to provide reasonable
not provide adequate assurance         assurance that the proceeds of the
given the specifics o f each           grant are used for the intended
component                              purposes. No later than 3 month after
                                       effectiveness, an external independent
                                       auditor will be appointed under TORS
                                       acceptable to IDA to audit the Project
                                       and provide special audit reports on
                                       Component 1and 3.
Fraud and Corruption              H    As the risk o f fraud is estimated at a     S
Ghost teachers may be paid;            maximum o f 10-15% o f teachers'
                                       salaries, retroactive financing on this
                                       component will be limited to 70%;
                                       the balance would be paid upon
                                       conclusive audit on the eligibility o f
                                       teachers salaries to be done within 6
                                       months after aeffectiveness.
                                       Besides requests for reimbursement
                                       or payment will be pre-screened and
                                       cleared bv SECOPE and UCOP.
Overallcontrol risk               H
Overall risk rating




                                          47

  Strengths

   5.      This is an emergency project aiming to reimburse to the Government o f DRC the cost
  incurred on a very limitednumber o f operations as a way to mitigate the impact o f the financial
  crisis. Inaddition, it i s agreed that the project will be implementedbyUCOP which i s an existing
  entity with a good track records inmanaging World Bank operationunder OPBP 8:OO.

. Weaknesses andAction Plan


  6.       There are multiple stakeholders involved in the Project which may cause some
  difficulties in terms o f coordination to clear the expenditures claimed for reimbursement. Two
  dedicated Operation Officers will be assigned upon effectiveness by UCOP to coordinate, collect
  all supporting documents and seek relevant clearances before submitting them for reimbursement
  to IDA.


  Descriptionof ImplementingEntity

  7.       It is agreed that the Project will be implemented by UCOP which is a Project
  Coordination Unit established within the Ministry o f Plan since 2003. UCOP has a Finance
  Department staffed with 3 qualified accountants dedicated to the implementingo f the ongoing
  WB-financed projects. The overall FM functions are handled with a well-functioning
  computerized accounting system under the supervision o f an experienced Financial Manager.
  Besides a Financial Director i s under recruitment and will complement the FM workforce. The
  existing FM staff are all familiar with WB FWdisbursement procedures. At the time o f writing
  this report UCOP is in compliance with Bank fiduciary requirements including submission of
  auditreports and IFR.


  BudgetingArrangements


  8.       The activities to be financed under this Project are well identified as described ineach o f
  the three components with their respective allocation. Besides, they are already budgeted under
  DRC 2009 budget law. Besides a breakdown o f the cost o f each item by component i s agreed
  upon during appraisal and will be monitored by UCOP during the implementation. Variances
  analysis will be provided along with the quarterly interim financial reports to be submitted by
  UCOP. A positive list and a negative list will reinforce the budgetary systemthrough component
   1.


  Key AccountingPoliciesandProcedures

  9.       An integrated financial and accounting system is already in place and being used by
  UCOP. It will be expendedto incorporate this Project. Project code and chart o f accounts will be



                                                     48

created to meet the specific needs o f the Project. The prevailing accounting policies and
procedures in line with the national accounting standards - Plan Comptable Congolais - adopted
in UCOP Manual of procedures will apply as well to this Project. Overall authorization and
accountingprocesses are described under the chart below




InternalControlandInternalAudit


10.     An internal audit Unit is yet to be established within UCOP. Nevertheless, adequate
internal controls are already in place and will apply to the Project as well. Besides all
reimbursement requests will be pre-screened and cleared by UCOP Finance Manager after an
initial clearance has been provided either by the ministry o f Finance and SECOPE. The Finance
Manager's due diligences will include inter alia the review o f eligibility o f all expenditures and
soundness o f the clearances provided by approval authority, e.g SECOPE, REGIDESO, SNEL
and Ministryof finances. Though assessed as weak, the control environment of BCC will also
apply includingcompliance with its BCC bankingpolicies andinternal controls.


FundsFlow andDisbursementArrangements

11.     A recent IMF assessment o f the Central Bank o f Congo (BCC) revealed cases o f
unauthorized expenditures executed by the Central Bank under the 2002-06 PRGF. In order to
mitigate these risks the following accounts will be opened and managed as follows:
(i)Component 1: a Designated Account "A" in USD opened at BCC and a Dedicated Treasury
Account (DTA) in CongoleseFrancs (FC) ;
(ii)Component 2: reimbursement will be made into the Government Treasury Account in
CongoleseFrancs (FC) held at BCC also;
(iii)Component 3: a Designated Account "B" (DA) in USD will be opened at BCC and a
Designated Account "C" opened in commercial bank acceptable to IDA for operating cost and



                                                49

audits; Reimbursement on Component 3 will be made from DA "B" to the Government Treasury
Account inCongolese Francs.

12.     The detailed flows o f funds for each component are described as follows:

13.     Under component I, Upon effectiveness a Designated Account "A" will be opened at
BCC into which IDA will deposit the disbursement claimed against 100percent of the delivered
costs o f imports (excluding taxes and duties) on the positive list. The minimum import contract
amount for disbursement would be set at $200,000 to avoid excessive transaction costs.
Disbursement will be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOE) for private sector procured
imports on the positive list.

14.     Counterpart funds. The borrower has agreed that once eligible imports have been
identified, an amount in Congolese Francs equivalent to the eligible imports in foreign currency
would be credited from the USD Designated Account to a Dedicated Government Treasury
Account (DTA) -so-called "Sous-Compte du Tresor". Disbursements out o f the Dedicated
Account against budgetary expenditure would need to be made for activities in support o f the
implementation o f the Project or the Government's Emergency Recovery Program and not for
military expenditures. IDA will request an audit o f the Dedicated Treasury Account as part o fthe
audit o f the Component 1detailedbelow under auditing arrangements.

15.     Retroactivefinancing. Retroactive financing o f up to US$24 million would be provided
to finance imports paid before grant signing, but after June 2008.

16.     Relevant supporting documents will include (i)   imports invoices certified by the customs
office (ii)bills o f lading, (ii)
                               delivery evidence to the Government (iii) evidence o f payment, (iv)
and final customs clearances (Licence d 'Importation ;Avis de ve`rzjkation; Facture de`finitive
d'importation; De`claration pour 1'importation difinitive ou la De`claration en exonkration (IE)
ou I'Importation conditionnelle (IC) ou la De`claration E; Bill of Lading; Ordre de virement
bancaire; avis de paiement de la banque commerciale de 1'importateur). These documents will
be provided collected within two weeks o f project effectiveness and retainedby UCOP for audit
purposes


17.     Under component 2, a retroactive financing o f up to US$16 million will be provided to
finance 100 percent o f the entire salaries documented by government as paid to the eligible
primary and secondary school teachers once the Grant i s effective. The disbursements o f the
retroactive portion will consist inreimbursing 70% percent of the teachers' salaries already paid
excluding the double o f estimated risk o f fraud under this component as discussed in Annex 1.
Reimbursement would be made through transfer into Government Treasury Account held at
BCC against SOEs. Supporting documents (as listed below) cleared by UCOP and pre-screened
by SECOPE under the Government standardprocedures will be collected within one month o f
project effectiveness and retained by UCOP for audit purposes. The balance o f this component
will be reimbursed into the Treasury Account subject to a conclusive audit on the eligibility o f
teachers' salaries. Inthe even the audit concludes that the reimbursement paidretroactively were
higher than the eligible teachers' salaries, the Recipient will promptly refund IDA these
ineligible expenditures. Supporting documents for this component consist o f


                                                50

        9       Payment Order from Treasury to Central Bank (ordre depaiement informatise' P )
                (responsible entity: Central Bank).
        ii) Salaryenvelope(I'enveloppesulariale)sentbyMEPSPtoMinistryofBudget
                (responsible entity: MEPSP-SECOPE).
        iii) Formaltransferorder(ordredevirement)sentbyCentralBanktoCaisCongo;
                (responsible entity : Central Bank).
        iv)     Payment Order (Ordre d'Envoi des Fonds (O.E.F.));(responsible entity:
                Ordonnateur Dkle'gue'Provincial).
        V I     Fundingdispatch note (Bordereau d'Envoi deFonds) (responsible entity: Central
                Bank).
        vi)     Receipt signed by the manager o f funds (de'churgehepe) (responsible entity:
                Minister o fFinance).

18.     Under component 3, the Project would finance the cost o f government's water and
electricity bills incurred from January to June 2009 submitted by REGIDESO and SNEL
respectively. Upon effectiveness a Designated Account "B" will be opened at BCC.             This
component will be disbursed in two payments.          The first payment will be disbursed as an
advance into the USD DA. The ceiling o f the advance will be US$ 10 Million which represents
estimated State water and electricity bill for January 09 through March 09. The Ministry o f
Finance will collect pre-screen IO utility bills and submit a request for payment to UCOP. UCOP
will review the eligibility o f the invoices, clear the request for payment and authorize BCC to
approve the payment for SNEL and REGIDESO. The second payment, which represents Sate
water and electricity bills for the period April 09 to June 09, will be disbursed once the initial
advance i s documented through the submission o f statements o f expenditures. Supporting
documents will be collected by the Recipient (through UCOP) within (30) thirty days after each
disbursement made for state utility bills. These documents will consist of (i)  proof o f payment
from the Ministry o f Finance (Ordre de Paiement); (ii)supporting documents for payment
(tableaux re'capitulatifs d 'e'mission desfactures cerzpe'es); and (iii) o f receipt o f payment
                                                                       proof
(quittances).

19.     Another DesignatedAccount "C" wlll be opened under UCOP's direct management in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA to pay the operating cost and audits. Disbursement will be
made against Statement of Expenditures -SOE - under this component 3.




                                                 51

Diagramof fundsflow


                        FUNDS FLOW CHART
                               IDA GRANT
                                ACCOUNT
                                     &




I         1                                                       I l \
                                                         DESIGNATED       ACCOUNT(C) in
                                                        ACCOUNT(B)at      a Commercial
                                                         BCC ( In USD)    Bank ( 8n USD




FinancialReportingandDraft Formatof InterimStatements


20.    Quarterly un-audited Interim Financial Reports (IFR) will be prepared and submitted by
UCOP to IDA within 45 days after the end o f each quarter. It will include the (i)   sources and
uses o f funds; (ii)expenditures by project components with comparative actual and budgeted
amounts for the quarter and cumulatively for the fiscal year; opening and closing balance o f
advances received from IDA; projected expenditures and cash forecast for the next reporting
period; and (iii)
                explanatorynotes. The format o fthe IFRwas agreed upon duringappraisal.
At the end o f the project, UCOP will issue the Project's Financial Statements comprising: (i) a
statement o f sources and uses o f funds (ii)
                                           the Designated Account at BCC and the DTA detailed
operations and reconciliation with funds allocated (iii)the Designated Account detailed
operations and reconciliation with the fbnds allocated (iv) a detailed statement o f all direct
payments executed by IDA upon UCOP's clearance and (v) explanatory notes. These financial
statements will be audited by an external auditor as described below.


ExternalAudits andAudit ReportDueDate


21.    Given the peculiarities o f each component, an external auditor acceptable to IDA will be
appointedby UCOP to audit the Project as follows:



                                               52

    (9       Component 1: within 3 months after a full disbursement, the auditors will audit the
             transactions and related financial statements then issue a special opinion on the
             supporting documents related to the positive list and the Dedicated Treasury Account
             to certify whether or not expenditure were consistent with the program as defined in
             the financing agreement; the expected due date of these reports i s November 15,
             2009;
    (ii) Component2: uponeffectiveness the auditors will auditthe teachers' salaries to
             certify their eligibility before the balance - if any -be released by IDA; the expected
             due date o fthis report i s September 15,2009;
    (iii) Within3monthsaftertheclosingdate,theauditorswillaudittheProjectFinancial
             Statements covering the project's lifetime including Component 3. The expected due
             date i s June 30, 2010.


22.     These audits will be carried out in accordance with the International Standards on
Auditing (ISA) on TOR acceptable to IDA to be agreed upon no later than 2 months after
effectiveness. The above audit reports including a management letter will be submittedto IDA as
specified above.


23.     Listof conditionalities:
    0   Opening o f accounts requiredunder the project.

    0   Disbursement o f 2nd payment o f teachers' salaries is subject to conclusive audit on
        Component 2.
                           ~




Supervisionplan

24.     The project will be supervised on a risk-based approach. Supervision will focus on the
status o f financial management system to verify whether the system continues to operate well
and provide support where needed. Based on the current risk assessment which is Substantial,
the project will be supervised on a quarterly basis and a review of transactions will be
performed during each supervision mission. Besides, the CO FM Team will provide
implementation support to the Project when the need arises. The supervision output will
comprise a financial management supervision report indicating progress and weaknesses
identifiedand recommendations to address the issues. To the extent possible, mixed supervision
missions will be undertaken with procurement monitoring and evaluation and disbursement
colleagues.




                                                    53

                             Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements
    CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: DRC EmergencyProjectto Mitigatethe
                                 Impactof the FinancialCrisis


1.      The Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) carried out in DRC in 2003
identified a number o f weaknesses in the country procurement system. An action plan to
implement the agreed recommendations i s being implemented under an IDA fimded operation.
The main weaknesses including (i)   lack o f adequate framework and enforcement, (ii) inefficient
andcostly procedures andpractices; (iii) procurement organization andcapacity; (vi) weak
                                          weak
audit and anti-corruption mechanisms, and payments delays that result inhigher contract prices.
An Action Plan has been implementedunder the EMTAP, including the following measures: (i)
setting a new public procurement "institution"; and (ii) reforming the legal frame work. All the
regulations instruments and standard bidding documents have been made available, waiting
approval o f the Government.

2.      A national procurement code, prepared under an IDA funded operation and assessed
satisfactory by the Bank, was adopted by the Council o f Ministers on December 19, 2008 and      '
transmitted to the national assembly for review and final approval. Next steps after approval by
national assembly will include (i) Signature by the President o f the Republic and promulgation,
(ii) inplacethe maininstitutionsincharge ofthe control andregulationaswell as
     putting
nomination or selection o f their respective key staff (iii)
                                                          training and dissemination o f the new
code among public and private sectors and (iv) actual implementation o f the code, which i s
expected to occur no later thanMarch 30, 2010.

3.      The project will finance goods, services, and imports. The procurement activities will be
carried out by the Implementing agency UCOP. The procurement activities under the project will
be carried out inaccordance with the Bank's   " Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans, and
IDA Credits" dated May 2004, revised October 2006; and `` Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers" dated May, revised October 2006,
the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement, and the provisions o f the OPiBP8.00.

4.      The general description o f the various items under different expenditure categories i s
included below for each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different procurement methods
or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirement, and time frame are
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank will be defined in the procurement plan.
Procurement plan will be updated as required to reflect the project implementation needs. The
procurement activities to be carried out under the project are described in the following
paragraphs.

5.      Component 1 (US$58 million). Financing of essential imports of critical goods and
commodities: The objective o f the component is to provide financing for essential import o f
critical goods and commodities: These could include petroleum and fuel products, basic food
products, construction materials, and telecommunication equipment, for which imports are



                                                54

conducted exclusively by private sector. Procurement o f import commodities by private sector
below a threshold o f US$1 million will be based on established commercial practices pursuant
para. 2.66-2.67 and footnote 55 o f the Bank.Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans, and
IDA Credits dated May 2004, revised October 2006. Contracts above that threshold will be
procuredusing modified International Competitive Biddingprocedures.

6.      An assessment o f the commercial practices for imports by private sector was carried out
by an independent consultant during the project preparation and finalized during project
appraisal. The consultant's mission consisting in the following tasks: @assess the responsible
government agency's procurement capacity and practice for the selection o f importers and the
effectiveness o f the control, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system in place; ($gather
sufficient data to assess the private sector import volume, practices o f fuel and food importers,
construction material importers, and other identified major         import items; (iii)assess the
commercial practices in procuring such items, including the reasonableness o f the prices of
these imports compared to prevailing world market prices (where available from reliable
sources);(iv)assess whether a paper trail can be established that testifies that the goods have been
paid, such paper trail could consist of bank statements andor a release o f a letter o f credit;
(v)assess the commercial and financial risks assumed by the importers and their potential impact
on prices and contract terms; (vi) examine the general operating conditions o f the country's
private sector in relation to the identified imports and dealings with Government; (vii)
summarize the relevant findings and make recommendations to support the preparation o f the
proposed operation.

7.      The main conclusions o f the assessment are as follows:

    (a) Composition o f the positive list. The positive list was established based on an analysis o f
    imported goods as specified on the inspection/ verification invoices produced and published
    by the Bureau Bivac international, a private inspection agency, member o f the Groupe
    Bureau Veritas which was contracted in February 2006 by the Government to execute the
    programme incharge o f the verification o f all importations inDRC. The positive list includes
    food products, construction materials, telecommunication equipment, and oil products. The
    volume of goods imported by the private sector in DRC allows the selection o f at least 90
    import biddcontracts from October 2008 to January 2009 for a total value o f US$40,000,000.

    (b) Adequate documentationis available to ensure that the goods were imported and that the
    foreign suppliers were actually paid (copies o f the credit transfer and payment notice o f the
    importer's commercial bank). Thus, the concerns about the correct use o f funds can be
    addressed through existing practices/procedures and documents.

    (c) Commercial practices for the supply o f the targeted products by the private sector inDRC
    are acceptable. The fiduciary risk at the procurement level has been reduced, taking into
    account the fact that the selected importers use commercialpractices that are competitive and
    acceptable based on the fact that they are part o f major international groups (which generally
    have purchase handbooks/manuals and procedures for acquisition o f merchandise). In
    addition, all the targeted products have undergone an inspection before being importedby the




                                                 55

    International company BIVAC and their prices verified (by comparing them with the
    established BIVAC data base using international market prices).

8.     In conclusion, the assessment of commercial practices for imports in DRC has
recommends that:

       Goods imported by the private sector can be financed under the project if they are
       included inthe positive list (Annex 7) and uponreceipt o f requireddocuments providing
       proof o f import andpayments.
       The minimum amount o f contracts o f imports to be used for disbursement should be
       US$200,000 given that the value of most contracts for imported goods on the positive list
       i s between US$200,000 and US$800,000. This will avoid generating excessive
       transaction costs.
       Financing o f imports lower thanUS$1million per contract, will not be subject to a prior
       review. 100% o f the financing plannedfor the component could be used for any class o f
       acceptable imports.
       Disbursement should be based on receipt o f above-mentioned documents for the goods
       on the positive list imported by the private sector and below the US$1 million threshold
       per contract.

Procurement Procedures for Goods and services (other that consultant services)

9.     All procurement for goods and services (other than consultant services) will follow IDA
Procurement Guidelines. Equipment such as computers andoffice supplies costing less than US$
50,000 per contract may be procured through shopping in accordance with the with Bank
guidelines.

10.    Selection of Consultants (US$ 0.5 million).Finakng consulting assignments under the
project, includes (i) audit for each component and (ii) recruitment of the project coordinator:
Consultant services will be procured in accordance with IDA Consultant Selection Guidelines.
Consultant services estimated at more than US$ 200,000 per contract, Single Source Selection
(SSS), and contracts for individual consultants above US$ 50,000 will be subject to prior review
by the Bank. All consulting contracts above US$200,0000 equivalent for firms will be awarded
on Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$
200,000 equivalent may be contracted through Consultants' Qualification (CQ). SSS may be
employed with Bank prior approval and in accordance to paragraphs 3.9 to 3.12 o f the
Consultant Guidelines and to the OPA3P8.00. For the auditing services estimated to cost USD
200,000 and USD 350, 000 respectively, the decision to use either CQ/QCBS shall be
determinedbasedon the merit o fthe case, subject to the Bank's prior approval.

11.    Least cost selection (LCS) may be employed in accordance to paragraph 3.6 o f the
Consultant Guidelines. This method can be used only for selecting consultants for assignments o f
a standard or routine nature where well established practices and standards exist.

12.    All services o f individual consultants(1C) will be procured under individual contracts in
accordance to the provisions o fparagraphs 5.1 to 5.4 o fthe Guidelines.



                                                56

   13.    Short lists o f consultants for services less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract may
be composed entirely o f national consultant in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7
o f the consultant Guidelines as determined inthe procurement planon the basis o f the nature and
availability o f local firms.

   14.    Tablefor Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPrior Review




      expenditures          In000 US $                                              review

11*                          > 1Million             Simplified ICB for                All
      Goods                                       private sector entities
                             < 1Million               Private sector                 None
                                                  commercial practices



                                                         Shopping                    None
   2. Consultant
   services
   l.A Firms                                          Single- Source                 All
                                                         Selection

12-B                            >200
      Firms
                                 <200
                                                       qualification

   2.B Individuals               > 50             Comparison o f at least            All
                                                          3 c v s



Institutionalarrangement for procurement and assessment of the ImplementingAgency's
ProcurementCapacity

   15.    Procurement arrangements for the Emergency Operation to mitigate financial crisis in
DRC have been designed taking into consideration (i) current weaknesses o f the national
                                                               the
procurement rules and procedures as mentioned above, (ii)             past experience in procurement
carried out under the Bank financed projects and (iii)     the emergency context o fthis operation. As
a result, an existing implementing agency with established reputation and traceable records,
UCOP, has been proposed to handle procurement activities under the project. The procurement
specialist o f UCOP will be assigned to handleprocurement under this project.




                                                     57

16.     Capacity assessment:The proposed implementing agency has demonstrated capacity in
the implementation o f several Bank financed projects including the EmergencyUrbanand Social
Rehabilitation, and the Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Projects. The capacity
assessment conducted by the Bank Procurement team based in Kinshasa reviewed the
organizational structure for implementingthe project and the interaction between the project's
staff responsible for procurement and the other members o f the team. The assessment showed
that the procurement specialist has significant experience with the World Bank procedures and i s
comfortable inapplying them.


Risk assessmentandmitigationmeasures

17.     A risk MitigationAction Planpreparedduringproject appraisal and is presented below.

Action                                     Responsibility DueDate
1.Consultant assigned to assess the                        January 19,2008
commercial practices during project Bank
preparation

2. Financial auditors for the Project and UCOP             3 months after effectiveness
Component 1 and 3 audits recruited
under the project

3.      Designation      o f     existing Government       January 14,2009
implementing agency familiar with the
World Bankprocurement procedures
4. Procurement plano f the project         UCOP            Done at negotiations

5. Preparation o f a simplified anti- Government            1month after effectiveness
corruption Action Plan


ProcurementPlan

18.     The Borrower developed a procurement plandated February 5, 2009 at appraisal for the
project implementation which provides the basis for procurement methods. The final version o f
the plan will be available inthe project database and inthe World Bank's external website. The
procurement planwill be updated as required to reflect the project implementationneeds.

Frequencyof Procurementsupervision:

19.     Inaddition to the priorreview supervisionto be carried out bythe Bankoffices, given the
emergency nature o f the project, it i s recommended that quarterly supervision field mission be
carried for: (a) post review o f the procurement actions, and (b) assessment o f the procurement
agent' s performance,




                                                 58

                   Annex 6: Implementationand MonitoringArrangements
   CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF: DRCEmergencyProjectto Mitigatethe
                                  Impactof the FinancialCrisis




ProjectImplementationArrangements


1.      Given the need for rapid results on the ground, the Project has been designed to rely on
implementation arrangements which are already inplace and have been successfully tested under
earlier Bank-financed activities:

2.      The Project Coordination Unit (PCU - UCOP). As part o f project preparation, it was
agreed that the implementingagency UCOP, which has gained experience inmanagingprevious
IDA funded operations (including emergency operations under OP 8.00) will ensure the overall
coordination o f the project. An Arret6 to expand the mandate o f UCOP to cover the Project was
adopted prior to negotiations in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. The PCU (which
reports to the Ministry o f Plan) will be the Bank's main counterpart and focal point for Project
implementation. It will be responsible for: (i) implementation; (ii)
                                                   overall                       coordination with
technical ministries and other relevant entities for the successful implementation o f all
components; (iii)management o f contracts awarded under the project; (iv) financial
management; and (v) liaisonwith the Bank.

3.      Inorder to ensure that UCOP will have the appropriate staffing inplace to execute the
Project, UCOP has designated a project coordinator to be responsible for the daily project
implementation. The Project Coordinator will report directly to the Head o f UCOP. The
procurement expert and financial management expert o f UCOP will be fiduciary experts in
charge o f the proposed operation. In addition to the Project Coordinator, UCOP will recruit two
assistants to collect the documentation necessary (Bill o f lading, invoices,. ...) to be provided
undercomponent 1.

4.      The Interministerial Oversight Committee (Comite' Interminise'riel de Supervision, CIS).
The CIS will: (i) PCU activities, with a focus on effectiveness and transparency; (ii)
                   oversee
provide overall guidance as may be needed; and (iii)     facilitate the coordination o f the various
public institutions involved in the Project. Given the emergency nature o f the operation, and to
ensure optimal coordination between the institutions involved in the implementation o f the
Project, the CIS will meet on a monthly basis. The CIS will be headed by the Minister o f
Finance and include representatives o f the Ministries of Plan, Budget, Education, Energy,
Portfolio, as well as the Central Sank o f Congo.

5.      Selected technical entities will be involved inthe implementation o f specific components,
including: (i) the Ministry o f Finance and the Central Bank o f Congo (Banque Centrale du



                                                 59

Congo) for components I, 2 and 3, (ii)    OFIDA (the National Custom Agency - ``Ofice des
Douanes et Assises") for component 1, (iii) the Ministry for Primary and Secondary Education
for component 2; and (iv) the water utility (REGIDESO) and the electricity utility (SNEL) for
component 3. Detailed roles of the various entities are described inAnnex 1.

6.      Both the Decree extending the mandate o f UCOP to the proposed project activities and
the Decree setting up the Interministerial Oversight Committee have been prepared by the
Government and UCOP during project appraisal and assessed satisfactory by the Bank. These
Decrees are to be signed byFebruary 28,2009.

7.      Monitoring Arrangements. UCOP has already M&E staff who will be in charge o f
reporting on the proposedproject's performance indicators, which are not expected to be difficult
to collect on a regular basis. As presentedin Annex 2, UCOP will rely on Ministry o f Finance,
Ministry of Primary, Secondary and Professional Education (through SECOPE), REGIDESO,
and SNEL for the provision o f data required to follow up on the project indicators. Those
arrangements will be detailed in the agreements to be signed between UCOP and each o f those
entities.




                                                60

             Annex 7. PositiveListofImportsfor Component 1
CONGO,DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF: DRCEmergencyProjectto Mitigatethe
                        Impactofthe FinancialCrisis




                  PositiveListofImportsfor Component1




  0Foodproducts

  0Construction materials
  0Telecommunication equipment
  0Petroleum and fuel products




                                    61

                 Annex 8. ProjectPreparationandAppraisalTeamMembers

     CONGO,DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC OF: DRCEmergencyProjectto Mitigatethe
                               Impactof the FinancialCrisis




 Franck Bousquet               Sr. Financial Specialist/TTL            AFTU2
 Johannes Herderschee          Sr. Economist                            AFTP3
  Susan Opper                  Sr. Education Specialist                 AFTH3
 Nathalie S. Munzberg          Sr. Counsel                              LEGAF
  Gilles Veuillot               Sr. Counsel                             LEGAF
 Elisabeth Huybens             Lead Country Officer                     ECCU4
 Aissatou Diallo               Finance Officer                          LOAFC
  Ernestina Attahah             Sr PromamAssistant                      AFTU2
  Celeste Mukuna                Team Assistant                          AFcc2
  Emilie A. Mushobekwa          Economist                               AFTP3
  Tesfaalem G. Iyesus           Sr. Procurement Specialist              AFTPC
  Mamadou Sevede                Sr. Procurement Specialist-Consultant   AFTU2
  Philippe Mahele               Sr. Procurement Specialist              AFTPM
  Bourama Diaite                Sr. Procurement Specialist              AFTPM

I Yvette
  Jean Doyen                    Consultant                              WSP
         Djachechi              Sr. Social Development Specialist       AFTCS
I Cecile Ramsav               I Operations Adviser                    I,AFTOK
I Mohamed                                                                  .
            Khatouri          i Lead  M&ESpecialist                   I AFTRL
  Nestor Coffi                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM
  Etienne Nkoa                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM
  Guillemette Jaffrin           Sr. Private Sector Specialist           AFTFP
  Michel E. Layec               Lead Energy Economist                   AFTEG
  Paul Jonathan Martin          Sr. Environmental Specialist            AFTEN




                                              62

                        Annex 9: SelectedEconomicandFinancialIndicators
CONGO,DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC OF: DRC EmergencyProjectto Mitigate
                                                       FinancialCrisisImpact
                         Table 1. DemocraticRepublic of the Congo: Selected Ewnomic and Financial Indicators,2006-09



                                                                                            2038               2007            2008              20w
                                                                                                  Act.             Act.             Est.          Pro].


                                                                                            Year-owyear percentChange.unlessomenwe indicated)
  GDP and prices
   RealGDP                                                                                         5.6              8.3             8.2            4.4
   GDPdefiator                                                                                   14.2              17.8            19.7           11.5
   Consumerprices, periodaverage                                                                 13.2              16.7            18.0           16.4
   Consumerprices, end-of-period                                                                 18.2              10.0            27.6           12.0

  Externalsector
   Exports,f.0.b. (U.S.$terms)                                                                   41.5             109.6            11.3          -46.8
   Imports. f.0.b.(U.S.$terms)                                                                   16.9              81.8            27.6          -20.2
   Exportwlume                                                                                   23.0              75.8             -0.2          -25.3
   lmportvdume                                                                                   15.0              69.9            12.1          -14.2
   Terms of trade                                                                                 13.1             11.4             -2.1          -23.5

                                                                                         annualchange in monetaryaggregates,unlessothewse Indicated)
  Moneyand credit
   Bmadmoney                                                                                     60.4              49.5            54.9            17.3
   Netforeignassets                                                                              -11.5             30.8             -5.5            9.7
   Netdomesticassets                                                                             72.6              20.2            64.6             8.6
     of which:
      Netcreditto government                                                                      17.8             10.3            10.4           -17.6
      Credit to the pivate sector (annualpercentchange)                                          78.4              73.6           144.8            24.4

                                                                                                               (Inpercentof GDP)

  Centralgovernmentfinance   '
   Totalgovernmentrevenue                                                                         12.8             14.7            18.1            20.2
   Grants                                                                                          7.9               3.5             3.6            7.5
   Totalgovernmentexpendibre      '                                                               21.4             18.8            21.3            29.0
   UnderMngflsca balance(cashbasis)                                                                0.5               0.8             0.9            0.2
   Overallfiscal balance(paymentorder basis, incl.grants)                                         4.7              -0.8              0.4           -1.4
   Overallfiscal balance(cashbasis,inci.grants)'                                                  -0.8             -1.2             -0.3           -1 9

  Investmentand saving
   Gmssnat'wnalsavir&?                                                                            11.2             167               9.7            5.7
     Government                                                                                   -0.4             -10               0.8            5.1
     Nongovernment                                                                                11.6             178               8.9            0.6
   Investment                                                                                     13.2             182             22.0            26.7
     Government                                                                                    3.2               23              2.8            9.6
     Nongovernment                                                                                10.0             159              19.2           17.1

  Balanceof payments
   Exportsof goodsand services                                                                    37.6             65.3            82.1            36.4
   Importsof goods andservices                                                                    42.4             68.7            74.8            652
   Currentacmunt balance,ind bansfers                                                             -2.1              -1.5           -12.3          -21.0
   Currentacmunt balance,exd. transfers                                                           -9.9              -8.9           -21.0          -31.8

   Gmssofficialreserves(end-of-perbd.US.$ millionsof U.S.dollars)                                154.5            180.6             83.0           520

   Grossofficialreserves(weeksof mnaid-relatedImportsof goodsand services)                         1.5               1.5             0.9            5.5

                                                                                                   (In millionsUS$.unlessotherwiseindicated)

  Externalpublicdebt
   TotalStOCk,including iMF6                                                                    10,813            10,524           54.9            17.3
   Net presentvalue (NW)of debt     '                                                           7,831             7,986             -5.5            9.7

   NPV(percentof exportsof goodsand services)                                                    339.4            195.2             64.6            8.6
   Scheduleddebt service                                                                        251.6             370.5
     Percentof exports of goodsandservices                                                         7.6               5.7            10.4          -17.6
     Percentof governmentrevenue                                                                  13.7             20.3            144.8           24.4

  Exchanaerate, CGF/U.S.$)
   Perbd average                                                                                468.3 ..          516.0 ...
   En&of-period                                                                                 503.4  ..         503.0 ...

  Memorandumitem:
   Nomina GDP (billionsof CGF/U.S.$)                                                            4,132             5,165           6,672           7.764


   Sources:Congoleseauthoritiesand IMFstaff estimatesand projections.
   'Changein    annual average. Minussign indicatesdepreciat'wn.
   ''RevSMP   fbcal Egures in2W7 are basedon GDPof CGF5.2billionto maintainmnslstencywnh the CentralGovernmentFinancialOperationstable.
     Includesinterestdue beforedebt reliefand expendibmfinanced byHlPC resources.
   'Cash balanceafter debt reliefon interest payments.
     lndudesInvestmentfinancedbyresourcesreleasedunderthe enhancedHlPC Initiative.
     Endof-pemd debt stock excludesmostof LondonClubdebt (someU S 1.O billionin2W7).which Is expectedto be bxght backwith deep
    dbmunt withgrantsfrom IDA,but includesaccumulatedarrearsand reflectsthe arrears clearancearrangementsconcludedatthe HlPC decisionpoint
   'Estimates and pmjecuons basedon end-2007 DSAand ana HlPC InitiativeinterimreliefassistanceunderCobgne terms. Includesassistancetewnd
    the terms of theenhancedHlPC'IniUaUvegrantedbysome ParisClub creditors. Exportsareon a threeyear backwwdmoviw average;
    pmjectons assume DRCreachedthe HlPCcompletionpointin late2W9.




                                                                          63

64

                    Annex 13: Map
CONGO,DEMOCRATICREPUBLICOF: DRCEmergencyProjectto Mitigate
                 FinancialCrisisImpact




                          65


                            10E                                                                                        15E                           CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                                                                           25E                                                                                 30E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S U D A N
            5N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To           Bangasso                                                                                                                                                    5N
                                                                                                                                                                 To                 Ubangi                                   Kembe
                                                                                                                                                            Bangui                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                         ZongoZongo        GbadoliteGbadolite                                                            BAS-UELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BAS-UELE                                                                                          Juba
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORD-UBANGI
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORD-UBANGI                                            BondoBondo                                                                            FaradjeFaradje
                                                                                                                                                                          LibengeLibenge                                                                                 Uele
                                                                                                                                                                                        GemenaGemena         BusingaBusinga                                                                                                        HAUT-UELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HAUT-UELE
                                                                               DEM. REP.                                                                                                                                                                          ButaButa              Titule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         itule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Watsa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  atsa         Kibali
                                                                             OF CONGO                                                                                      SUD-
                                                                                                                                                                           SUD-                                                                                                                                             IsiroIsiro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AketiAketi                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                         ImeseImese      UBANGI
                                                                                                                                                                         UBANGI              AkulaAkula      LisalaLisala         BumbaBumba                                            ORIENTALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ORIENTALE                                                                                    Pakwach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Wamba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       amba
                                                                                                                                                            Oubangui                                     MONGALA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         MONGALA                              Congo                                                                                             MongbwaluMongbwalu                      UGANDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BanaliaBanalia  Aruwimi                                                                        BuniaBunia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I T U R I
                                                                                                                                                                                Lulonga                      BongandangaBongandanga                                                                                                                                ts.          Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                           BasankusuBasankusu                                                        T S H O P O                     BafwasendeBafwasende
                                                                                                                                                                                           EQUATEUR
                                                                                                                                                                                           EQUATEUR                                                                                                                                                               M             Albert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Yangambi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          angambi                                                                                   BeniBeni
                                                                                                                                                                        Q U AT E U R                                                                        KisanganiKisangani                                                         ButemboButembo            Margherita Peak
            0                                                                                                                                                        Mbandaka
                                                                                                                                                                      Mbandaka                                                                                                           Wanie Rakula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    anie Rakula
                                                                                                                                                                                                               BoendeBoende                                                                                                                            itumba     (5,110 m)                                 0
                                                                                                                          CONGO                                                                                                                                                                                                       NORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORD            M        Lake
                                                 GABON                                                                                                                                                                       Tshuapa                                                                        Lubutu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lubutu                                             Edward                       Lake
                                                                                                                                                             BikoroBikoro                                                                                                                                                             KIVU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KIVU
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Luilaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TSHUAPALomela IkelaIkela
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TSHUAP                                                       Lomami            Lualaba                            NORD-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORD-                                                          Victoria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LowaLowa                               KIVU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KIVU        Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Goma                To Ruhengeri
                                                                                                                                                                       Inongo
                                                                                                                                                                       Inongo                                                                                                                         Ulindi                                          Lake Kivu
                                                                                                                                             Yumbi
                                                                                                                                              umbi                                                                 BetambaBetamba                                                                nogo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                                                       MAI-NDOMBE
                                                                                                                                                       MAI-NDOMBE                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KalimaKalima          BukavuBukavu      Kibuye                      RWANDA
                                                                                                                                                           KutuKutu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KinduKindu                                SUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUD
                                                                                                         KINSHASA
                                                                                                         KINSHASA                                                               BunaBuna
                                                                                                                                          Bandundu
                                                                                                                                          Bandundu                                                         Lukenie                          LodjaLodja                                                                   KIVU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KIVU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                           KINSHASA CITY
                                                                                           KINSHASA CITY                                                                 Kasai                                                                                                 MANIEMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MANIEMA                                            SUD-UviraUvira
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SUD-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S A N K U R U                                                                KamaKama                    Bujumbura           BURUNDI
                                                                                                                                                       BANDUNDU
                                                                                                                                                       BANDUNDU                         MangaiMangai                Sankuru                                                                                                       KIVU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KIVU
                                                                                                                                                                                                         IleboIlebo                                                            M A N I E M A
                                                                                                                                    KINSHASAKINSHASA       BulunguBulungu                                                                             KASAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KASAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MalelaMalela
                                                                                                                                                                      KWILU
                                                                                                                                                                      KWILU                                                                      LusamboLusambo                                            KasongoKasongo        LulimbaLulimba
            5S                                                                                                                                   Kenge
                                                                                                                                                  Kenge                                                  KASA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         KASAKASA
                                       CABINDA                                                    BAS-CONGO
                                                                                                  BAS-CONGO                                                                                                                                      ORIENTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ORIENTAL
                                                                                                                                                                    Kikwit
                                                                                                                                                                    Kikwit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5S
                                                                                                                                                                                        IdiofaIdiofa
                                   (ANGOLA)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KongoloKongolo
                                                               To                        KONGO CENTRAL
                                                                                         KONGO CENTRAL                                                                                                 LueboLuebo                                                                                                                                                                 TANZANIA
                                                            Pointe-          BomaBoma                                Mbanza-Ngungu
                                                                                                                     Mbanza-Ngungu                                                                     KASAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                       KASAI                 Kananga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kananga                                   LOMAMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOMAMI
                                                            Noire                                                                                                                                                                                          Mbuji-Mbuji-                                                               KalemieKalemie               Lake
                    ATLANTIC                                                                                                                                                Kwilu                                                                                                                                        Lukuga
                                                                                            Matadi                                                       FeshiFeshi                                                                          KASAKASA--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KASA-
                                                                                                                                To                                                           OCCIDENTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                             OCCIDENTAL                                                    MayiMayi    Kabinda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kabinda                                                                                     Tanganyika
                       OCEAN                                                                                                Damba                Kwango                                     Tshikapa
                                                                                                                                                                                             shikapa                                         ORIENTALORIENTAL                                                   KabaloKabalo

                                                                                                                                                       KWANGO
                                                                                                                                                       KWANGO                                                 Kasai          LULUALULUA                                                                         TANGANYIKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ANGANYIKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Moba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Moba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mwene-DituMwene-Ditu
                                      DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lomami                          ManonoManono

                                                      OF CONGO                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KATANGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KA ANGA                              Luvua
                      EMERGENCY RESPONSE                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H A U T- L O M A M I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KapangaKapanga                                                                            PwetoPweto
                                             TO MITIGATE                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lueo             KaminaKamina                              Mts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ba
                  FINANCIAL CRISIS IMPACT                                                                                                              A N G O L A                                                                LuluaLulua                                                                                 KilwaKilwa           Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mweru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SandoaSandoa                                               MitumLufira
                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                    LubudiLubudi                         HAUT-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HAUT                                                                            10S
                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS*                                                                                                                                                                     L U A L A B A                                                             KA ANGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KATANGA
                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                               KolweziKolwezi                                            To
                                                                                                                                            0          100          200      300           400 Kilometers                                                                                                     LikasiLikasi                     Luwingu
                                                        RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                        Dilolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Dilolo                                                                                                                          Z A M B I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lake
                                                        MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lucano                                                             Lualaba                                                                                                   Malawi
                                                        RAILROADS                                                                           0               100                  200 Miles                                                                                                                                  LubumbashiLubumbashi                                                        I
JANUAR                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD
                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                      36727
      Y       *The creation of 26 new Provinces was approved by the ratification of the 2005 Constitution, to take effect by February,       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                  ZAMBIA                                               To            Sakania
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sakania
                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                Kitwe                                                                  ALAW
       2009   2009. The existing 11 Province Capitals, shown with green circles, will retain their status, with the exception of Bandundu.
              Future Province Capitals are shown with white circles.
                                                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                         M
              **The  existing 11 Province boundaries and names are shown in dark green; future in light green.                                                                                                                                                            25E                                                                                 30E

