                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR00001391



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-H4530)



                                      ON A

                                     GRANT


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 66.2 MILLION
                       (US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                      DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                    FOR AN

EMERGENCY PROJECT TO MITIGATE THE IMPACT OF THE FINANCIAL CRISIS




                                February 28, 2011




Sector Department AFTUW (Water and Urban)
Country Department AFCC2 (Democratic Republic of Congo, Republic of Congo)
Africa Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2010)

                           Currency Unit = Congolese franc
                              CDF 1.00 = US$0.001099
                               US$ 1.00 = CDF 910.00

                                    FISCAL YEAR

                               January 1 ­ December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB       African Development Bank
BCC        Congolese Central Bank
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CDF        Congolese franc
CMU        Country Management Unit
CPI        Consumer Price Index
DRC        Democratic Republic of Congo
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA FTF    IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast-Track Facility
ISR        Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR        Mid-Term Review
n.a.       not applicable
NGO        Non-governmental organization
NPV        Net Present Value
OP         Operational Policy
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PP         Project Paper
REGIDESO   State water utility company
SNEL       State electricity company
TTL        Task Team Leader
EPMIFC     Emergency Project to Mitigate the Impact of the Financial Crisis

                             Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                           Country Director: Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
                            Sector Manager: Junaid Kamal Ahmad
                       Project Team Leader: Franck Bousquet
                          ICR Team Leader: Christian Vang Eghoff
                            Democratic Republic of Congo
             Emergency Project to Mitigate the Impact of the Financial Crisis



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 21
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 22
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 24
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 25
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 26
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 36
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 37
  MAP IBRD 36727
A. Basic Information
                                                                            DRC          Emergency
                          Congo,      Democratic                            Project    to Mitigate
Country:                                         Project Name:
                          Republic of                                       Impact     of Financial
                                                                            Crisis
Project ID:               P115642                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H4530
ICR Date:                 12/20/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT             OF
Lending Instrument:       ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                            DRC
Original          Total
                          XDR 66.2M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 66.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           XDR 66.2M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Project Coordination Unit in the Ministry of Planning (Unité de coordination de projet ­ UCoP)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process                Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/29/2008      Effectiveness:             02/28/2009          03/20/2009
Appraisal:             01/27/2009      Restructuring(s):                              07/01/2010
Approval:              02/26/2009      Mid-term Review:           07/31/2009          10/14/2009
                                       Closing:                   03/01/2010          08/31/2010


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:          Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                            Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall           Bank Satisfactory        Overall     Borrower Satisfactory

                                                  i
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality   at      Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality            of
                        No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO       rating     before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General energy                                                        58                      0
Power                                                                 13                    12
Primary education                                                      8                      3
Secondary education                                                    8                      3
Water supply                                                          13                    12
General industry and trade                                             0                    70


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                              26                   41
Education for all                                                      16                   6
Macroeconomic management                                               29                   41
Other financial and private sector development                         29                   2
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 0                    12


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:              Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:            Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly          Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
Sector Manager:              Junaid Kamal Ahmad                   Eustache Ouayoro
Project Team Leader:         Franck Bousquet                      Franck Bousquet
ICR Team Leader:             Christian Vang Eghoff
ICR Primary Author:          Christian Vang Eghoff

                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To help mitigate the immediate and severe impact of the global financial crisis on DRC's
economy by providing short term transitional support to fund critical imports and
maintain targeted essential services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target        Formally     Actual Value
                                             Values (from          Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                               approval             Target    Completion or
                                              documents)            Values     Target Years
              Shortages of key commodities (food products, construction materials,
Indicator 1:  telecommunications equipment, and oil products) over the 3 months
              following project effectiveness.
Value         0 (no shortage)            0 (no shortage)       n.a.        0 (no shortage)
Date achieved 02/11/2009                 05/29/2009                        08/31/2010
              100 percent achievement. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) decreased. At
              appraisal, the CPI was chosen as a proxy for inflation and availability of key
              imports on the Congolese market, as price spikes would indicate acute
              commodity shortage. Reversely, if there are more goods in the market, inflation
Comments
              goes down. Three-month inflation decreased from 28.8 percent at the end of
(incl. %
              April 2009 to 25.3 percent at the end of June, showing better availability of
achievement)
              commodities on the positive list of imports. This compares to a situation of
              accelerating inflation prior to the project. As shown in the graph in Annex 1,
              there were no price spikes for imported goods during the three months following
              effectiveness.
Indicator 2:  Number of months teachers receive timely payments.
Value         12 months (2008)           3 months              n.a.        3 months
Date achieved 02/11/2009                 03/01/2010                        08/31/2010
              100 percent achievement. The baseline refers to the payment of salaries for the
              12 months of 2008. The teachers' salaries were paid on time for the months of
Comments      March, April, and May 2009, in accordance with project objectives as
(incl. %      determined by what the project could reasonably be held accountable for. The
achievement) payment was made possible by the reimbursement of teacher's salaries to the
              Government (see Intermediate Outcome Indictor 2). The trend of payment in fact
              continued for the entire 2009-2010 school year.
Indicator 3:  Percentage of State utility bills paid for the first two quarters of 2009.
                                         (i) Water: 100%                   (i) Water: 100%
              (i) Water: 3%
Value                                    (ii)     Electricity: n.a.        (ii)      Electricity:
              (ii) Electricity: 0%
                                         100%                              100%


                                               iii
Date achieved 02/11/2009                 06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
              100 percent achievement. The State's water bills to REGIDESO for the months
              of January through June 2009 were paid, as were the State's electricity bills for
Comments      Kinshasa for the months of January through June 2009 and for the Katanga and
(incl. %      Bas-Congo provinces for the months of April through June. These specific
achievement) provinces were chosen to align the project with the ongoing activities by SNEL
              (supported by the Bank) to install electricity meters for government agencies in
              these provinces, foreseen during the months of February-March.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                             Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                               approval                          Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                           Target Years
              Total value (in US$M) of imported essential goods & commodities using
Indicator 1:
              project funds (disaggregated by type of good)
              0 (no goods imported
Value                                    $58M                  n.a.           $69.7M
              using project funds)
Date achieved 02/11/2009                 03/01/2010                           08/31/2010
              120 percent achievement. The project surpassed the indictor due to the
              reallocations from components 2 and 3. Imports by category:
Comments            Food products: US$42.81 million
(incl. %
                    Oil products: US$24.19 million
achievement)
                    Telecommunications equipment: US$2.40 million
                    Construction materials: US$0.31 million
              Months of primary and secondary education teacher salaries financed by
Indicator 2:
              the project funds.
              0 (no salaries paid by the
Value                                    1 month               n.a.           1 month
              project funds)
Date achieved 02/11/2009                 03/01/2010                           08/31/2010
              100 percent. The Project reimbursed the government for the payment of the
Comments
              salaries of 144,502 teachers (100 percent) effectively teaching and listed on the
(incl. %
              payroll for the month of November 2008, as confirmed by the component 2
achievement)
              audit.
Indicator 3:  Amount of State utility bills paid for the first two quarters of 2009.
                                         (i) Water: $12M                      (i) Water: $11.5M
              (i) Water: $0
Value                                    (ii)     Electricity: n.a.           (ii)      Electricity:
              (ii) Electricity: $0
                                         $11.4M                               $11.9M
Date achieved 02/11/2009                 03/01/2010                           08/31/2010
Comments      Overall 100 percent achievement. The differences between target value and
(incl. %      achievement by utility are due to the actual bills differing slightly from appraisal
achievement) estimates.




                                                iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                         Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                     IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                     (USD millions)
  1    05/11/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 43.00
  2    08/28/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 67.42
  3    11/23/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 78.73
  4    03/11/2010         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 93.28
  5    09/15/2010         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                101.11


H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Second      level   restructuring
                                                     (approved by the Country
                                                     Director) to reallocate funds
 07/01/2010                S       S         95.64
                                                     from      component       2    to
                                                     component 1 and extend the
                                                     project closing date.



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      At the time of appraisal, in January 2009, the changing international environment
resulting from the financial crisis was seriously impacting the economic stability of DRC.
Since September 2008, DRC's economic prospects had sharply deteriorated, especially as
a consequence of declining mining output, with an estimated 200,000 jobs and 1 million
people indirectly affected, and a projected 53 percent decline in export receipts. In
addition, the country had to face a security and humanitarian crisis in the North Kivu
province following the resurgence of the conflict in late August 2008, with some 350,000
in need of continuous emergency humanitarian assistance. The combined effects of the
financial and the security crisis had overwhelmed the ability of the government to
respond to the economic consequences of these shocks without external support.

2.      Growth estimate for 2008, at 8 percent, was 2 percentage points lower than
previously projected. A sharp slowdown in growth to about 4.5 percent for 2009 was
expected, down from 10-12 percent previously predicted. Further, a sharp reduction of
foreign direct investment in 2009 was projected (from US$2 billion to about US$600
million). Official gross reserves had declined from over US$200 million mid-year 2008
to US$39 million at the end of January 2009, the lowest level since 2001, and equivalent
to just 0.26 weeks of imports. The decline in export proceeds had also led to a drop in
foreign exchange-denominated bank deposits, raising further pressures on the Congolese
franc (CDF). The exchange rate had slipped from CDF 503 to US$1 at end-2007 to CDF
639 by end-December 2008. In early January 2009, there were periods of accelerating
depreciation when US$1 traded for CDF 800.

3.      Although overall imports were expected to decline in response to lower foreign
direct investment and slower economic growth, the rapid deterioration of the country's
external financial position threatened to lead to serious shortages of imported goods. This
would further undermine economic growth prospects and deepen the impact of the crisis,
including reducing the availability of food staples in larger cities. It could thereby
potentially reverse the achievements regarding peace and stability of the previous years.

4.     The overall fiscal deficit was projected at 1.9 percent of GDP on a cash basis, and
the residual financing need was projected at around US$300 million. Further fiscal
pressures could potentially arise if the government would have to address the security and
humanitarian needs in the East, and if interim relief under the enhanced HIPC Initiative
was not extended beyond October 2009.

5.      The weakening fiscal positions, despite broadly appropriate spending policies,
could potentially undermine the government's ability to meet its priority expenditure,
including salary and utility payments on time. This, in turn, would threaten the efforts to
provide reliable social services (especially payment for teachers at the provincial level)
and viable water and electricity services to the population. Payment of teacher salaries
constituted the major part of the DRC education budget. The government accounted for
40 and 25 percent of billing for national water utility (REGIDESO) and the national
electricity utility (SNEL) respectively. The efficiency of the water network was in a


                                            1
process of degradation (network efficiency dropped 5 points from 2008 to 2009). A
serious setback in these areas could result in declining education services and inability of
utility companies to meet their obligations and provide basic services. Higher inflows of
external support would be essential to cushion the economy's adjustment to the
exogenous shocks.
Government response
6.      The government formulated an Emergency Recovery Program laying out its
proposed response to the evolving crisis, based on protecting the functioning of key
economic sectors by assuring the availability of critical imported goods. The government
committed to three fiscal policy objectives: (a) macro-economic stability, (b) regular
servicing of the international debt, and (c) ensuring the continuity of social services,
including education and access to water and electricity. In spite of tight budget
constraints, the government refrained from recourse to monetary financing of the budget.

7.      The government's strategy envisaged that a coordinated emergency support by the
Bank and IMF would provide bridge finance until additional donor support was
mobilized. By mid-year, the government would further firm up its policy response to the
crisis and seek assistance under a new PRGF-supported program.
World Bank and donor community response
8.     The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of December 18, 2007, laid the
foundation for a medium-term poverty reduction effort, with a strong focus on
governance and shared growth. The Bank was working closely with the IMF to monitor
macroeconomic developments and identify policy options in a timely manner. Following
the dramatic impact of the financial crisis on DRC, the government asked the Bank for
emergency support. At the same time, the Bank had approved the IDA Financial Crisis
Response Fast-Track Facility (IDA FTF), on December 9, 2008. It was decided to
leverage the IDA FTF to respond to the government's request within three months, and to
be highly selective in the response.

9.      The Bank's support to the government of DRC in mitigating the impacts of the
financial crisis rested on three pillars: (a) coordinating the multi-donor effort in support
of the economic recovery, (b) adjusting the existing project portfolio, and (c) preparing
the Emergency Project to Mitigate the Impact of the Financial Crisis (EPMIFC), which
was seen as a response to the immediate crisis and a "bridge" to future operations
supported by the IMF and other donors. The Project reflected the Bank's comparative
advantage, particularly its existing portfolio of programs in DRC, and was cognizant of
proposed responses of government and other development partners.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
10.     The PDO was: "To help mitigate the immediate and severe impact of the global
financial crisis on DRC's economy by providing short term transitional support to fund
critical imports and maintain targeted essential services." The project had three key
indicators, one per component, reflecting the support to overall economic crisis
management, to the education sector, and to the water and electricity sectors. The key
indicators measured were: (a) shortage of key commodities (fuel, imported food,


                                             2
construction materials, and telecommunications equipment), (b) number of months
teachers receive timely payments, and (c) percentage of State utility bills paid from
January through June 2009.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
11.     The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
12.     The Project was designed to mitigate the impact of the financial crisis on the
broader economy of Congo, and as such both the private sector and the population in
general were to benefit from the Project. More specifically, the payment of school
teachers' salaries would benefit teachers, students, and parents alike. The payment of the
state's water and electricity bills would benefit REGIDESO and SNEL, which would be
able to maintain services, ultimately benefiting the connected private consumers and
businesses.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Financing of imports of essential goods and commodities
(Appraisal/actual cost: $58 million/$69.7 million)
13.     This component aimed to support the government in sustaining the level of key
imports in face of the foreign exchange shortage. The component would reimburse the
government for imports by the private sector of goods and commodities detailed on a
positive list and covering food products, construction materials, telecommunication
equipment, and petroleum and fuel products.
Component 2: Financing of primary and secondary school teachers' salaries
(Appraisal/actual cost: $16 million/$6.2 million)
14.    This component would contribute to the uninterrupted delivery of education
throughout the territory to protect recent gains in education and help the government
maintain its objective of one million new children in school in 2009. Continued payment
of teacher's salaries in Kinshasa as well as outside the capital would provide income
throughout the territory. The Project would reimburse the government for the payment of
one month of primary and secondary education teachers' salaries for the month of
November 2008.
Component 3: Financing State water and electricity bills
(Appraisal/actual cost: $26 million/$23.4 million)
15.    By covering expenditures for public utility bills, the objective of this component
was to prevent the crisis from aggravating the financial positions of REGIDESO and
SNEL and causing services to deteriorate, thus jeopardizing on-going recovery efforts.
The component was to pay the state's water and electricity bills for January through June
2009. The component also financed expenses related to project management and
implementation.




                                                3
1.6 Revised Components
16.      The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
17.     The project was restructured following the audit of component 2 (teachers'
salaries), which resulted in US$4.6 million of expenditures being qualified as ineligible
(see Sections 2.2 and 2.4 for details). The ineligible amount was subsequently reimbursed
by the government and reallocated from component 2 to component 1, along with the
undisbursed balance for components 2 and 3 (due to exchange rate fluctuations) for a
total reallocation to component 1 of US$11.7 million. The closing date was extended for
six months, from March 1 to August 31 2010, to ensure that funds were fully utilized.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation
18.     The project was prepared in a very short timeframe. The first project preparation
meeting, chaired by the Country Director, was held on December 16, 2008, to review the
scope and modalities for preparing an emergency operation. On January 13, 2009, Bank
management approved the processing of the proposed operation under the overall
umbrella of the IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast-Track Facility (IDA FTF). A large
number of Bank staff covering all sectors and with inclusion of OPCS contributed to the
appraisal of the Project (cf. list in Annex 4), assuring incorporation of a wide cross-
section of Bank expertise. The government was fully engaged in project preparation, led
by the Technical Reform Committee in the Ministry of Finance and with involvement of
all project beneficiary institutions.
Design
19.    The choice of an emergency recovery grant arose from the lack of other options,
such as the restructuring of an existing project, to meet the immediate financing needs.
The alternative of providing assistance under a Development Policy Grant was
considered but rejected, given the importance of offering short-term financing rather than
supporting policy and institutional actions to address the crisis, as a prerequisite for a
DPO.

20.      Following OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies), the country
lending program was adjusted to accommodate an emergency operation within the
country's existing IDA allocation. In line with the OP, the Project in particular addressed
the objectives of mitigating the potential effects of the crisis on economic activities,
preserving essential services and preserving human, institutional, and social capital. To
foster the objectives of a quick emergency response, the operation made use of the
provisions for financing recurrent costs, retroactive financing, and financing a positive
list of goods.

21.    Under its three components, the Project would finance expenditures needed to
maintain economic stability and protect the poor. The main purpose was to address some


                                            4
of the near-term impacts of the financial crisis and sustain economic activities until the
government's policy response could take effect and medium-term donor support could be
identified. It would ensure that economic activities relying on imports could continue
uninterrupted and protect the functioning of essential social and utility services.

22.     The Project was fully consistent with the objectives of the PRSP, particularly
Pillar 2 (Consolidating macroeconomic stability and economic growth) and Pillar 3
(Improving Access to Social Services and Reducing Vulnerability). The Project was fully
aligned with two of the CAS's five strategic elements: Strategic element 2 "Help
consolidate macroeconomic stability and economic growth" ­ as designed under the
Project, especially under component 1 and Strategic element 3 "Help Improve the
Provision of Social Services and Reduce Vulnerability" - under this pillar, the CAS
specifically indicated that the Bank would support programs aimed at improving the
quality and coverage of education and increasing access to clean water and sanitation.
The proposed operation, under its components 2 and 3, fully supported this strategic
element. The components were well aligned to the overall objective of the Project and the
need to support imports, continuity of education, and of water and electricity services.

23.     Component 1 built on a Bank assessment of major imports contracts, carried out
from June 2008 to January 2009, which supported that a retroactive financing of up to
US$24 million could be provided to finance import expenditures incurred within twelve
months before grant signing. A consultant was recruited during project preparation to
review private importers' commercial practices and ensure they were acceptable to the
Bank. The consultant's assessment confirmed that imports below a threshold of US$1
million could be based on established commercial practices pursuant to footnote 55 of the
Bank Procurement Guidelines and that supporting documentation was available for the
amount proposed for the retroactive financing, so that the initial disbursements could be
made in March 2009, within one month after project effectiveness. The Project did not
directly finance imports of goods, but reimbursed the government for imports by the
private sector, assuring availability of key commodities on the market. Counterpart funds
were to be used specifically to pay for activities included in the government's emergency
program.

24.      Component 2 responded to the need to assure continuity of education throughout
the country. In the absence of payment of teacher salaries, strikes were to be expected,
which would lead to school closures. The government had committed the budget for 12
months of teachers' salaries and this component would enable the government to make
this commitment without rupture. Continued payment of teachers' salaries in all
Provinces would provide income throughout the nation. The Bank had good knowledge
of the education sector in DRC, and the risk of fraud was estimated at a maximum of 10-
15 percent of teachers' salaries. For this reason, the retroactive financing of salaries for
the month of November 2008 would be in two tranches, with 70 percent to be disbursed
initially, and the balance to be paid upon a conclusive audit on the eligibility of teachers
salaries to be done within 6 months after effectiveness.

25.     Component 3 was based on the fact that consumption by official government
entities accounted for 40 and 25 percent of billing for REGIDESO and SNEL


                                             5
respectively. The government had embarked on a comprehensive sector reform including
its commitment to pay in a timely manner its electricity and water bills and this reform
was being supported by the Bank and other donors. Without regular payment of the
State's water and electricity bills, these utilities could face a rapidly deteriorating
financial outlook with concomitant decline in their services, compounded by the potential
lack of payment by other consumers in the crisis situation. Lack of water would impact
the population who would potentially revert to unsafe sources of water. Lack of regular
payment of State utility bills would undermine the start-up of programs undertaken by the
government for the recovery of these sectors that were critical for improving living
conditions and the competitiveness of the economy. Building on ongoing sector dialogue,
the project included covenants to expand metering to cover most of the State's water and
electricity consumption and certify billing prior to payment, providing safeguard against
undue payments. Linking these key reforms to the Project provided a successful way to
speed up reforms, which had not seen substantial progress under ongoing operations, and
improve sustainability of sector interventions, in spite of the emergency context.

26.    Overall, it was estimated that the size and timing of support from the IMF and the
Bank would assure adequacy of foreign exchange to maintain critical imports during the
subsequent 3-4 months, by which time combined policy responses and additional donor
support were expected to sustain the economic recovery program.

27.    To assure speedy implementation, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) (reporting
to the Ministry of Planning), which was already well versed in Bank procedures through
the implementation of a number of other Bank-financed projects, was put in charge of
implementing the Project. The PCU would incorporate the Project in their existing work
program without having to resort to hiring additional staff, which could potentially delay
implementation.
Quality at entry
28.     Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory based on the comprehensive response the
government and Bank team was able to pull together in a very short time. The innovative
approach leveraged existing analytical work, ongoing projects, and Bank resources across
several sectors, on top of a concerted effort between the Africa Region and OPCS
regarding Bank procedures. The Project had minor flaws at appraisal, particularly the
lack of clarity on the definition of eligible teacher's salaries, but this did not prevent the
Project from attaining its development objective with minimal adjustments along the way,
as described below.

2.2 Implementation
29.     Implementation of the Project overall only encountered few major problems.
Frequent implementation support missions and close cooperation between the Bank and
the client, represented by the PCU, meant that most issues could be solved as they arose.
Five well-staffed missions were carried out, all including an economist, as well as the
education, infrastructure, and fiduciary specialists, and disbursement staff.

30.    The government's adoption of the inter-ministerial decrees establishing simplified
procedures for payment of the government's water and electricity bills was delayed by


                                              6
four months, slowing down implementation of component 3. The final disbursement for
component 3 was made on January 13, 2010, compared to the final disbursement forecast
under the component in September 2009.

31.    Following the audit of component 1, US$5.2 million of expenditures related to
imports of car spare parts, which were not on the positive list, had been included. The
PCU immediately proceeded to gather supporting documentation for substitute imports
and submit this to the Bank, avoiding a reimbursement of the funds.

32.     The audit of component 2 (teachers' salaries) was finalized in February 2010, and
reviewed by the Bank, indicating that US$4.6 million of expenditures had to be qualified
as ineligible expenditures. "Replacement teachers" (fully operational) had been paid, in
accordance with Congolese regulation but in non-compliance with the exact terms of the
Financing Agreement as it related to the definition of eligible teachers' salaries (see also
Section 2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance). The ineligible amount was
subsequently reimbursed by the government and reallocated to component 1 within two
weeks in February 2010.

33.     The extension of the project by six months, following the audit of components 1
and 2, allowed the Project to disburse 100 percent of the grant.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design
34.     The M&E framework design took into account the emergency nature of the
Project and focused on readily available indicators: inflation, payment of teacher salaries
and payment of utility bills. Evolution in these indicators would be at least partly
attributable to the Project, and also show the impact of the Project on mitigating the
impacts of the financial crisis, while not aiming at impacts that would be beyond the
Project scope. Overall, heavy involvement of M&E colleagues helped the framework
design to be sound and based it on simple data collection methods.
Implementation
35.     The PCU M&E specialist was in charge of collecting data from the various
project beneficiaries. This was consolidated and systematically evaluated by the PCU and
shared with the Bank, as evidenced by the regular updates to the Implementation Status
and Results Report (ISR). The PCU and the Bank had discussions on how to best
disaggregate the CPI, as the project categories did not match exactly the CPI categories,
and a practical solution was found for the Project.
Utilization
36.      The M&E framework was actively used to make minor adjustments to project
implementation and especially to make sure disbursement was on track, a major objective
in this type of emergency operation. The MTR was timely and was used to review project
progress in depth, confirming progress towards meeting key performance indicators. All
indicators related to the Project, plus key macro-economic indicators, were followed
closely during supervision missions and reported in aide-memoires. It should be noted


                                             7
that reallocations from components 2 and 3 to component 1 should have been reflected in
an adjustment of intermediate outcome indicators, with US$11.7 million being added to
component 1. This did not, however, affect PDO indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard compliance
37.    The project was rated Category C as it did not finance any physical investments
and there were no negative environmental or social impacts.
Fiduciary compliance
38.     A procurement review by the Bank Procurement Specialist rated procurement
Satisfactory. Procurement activities under the project essentially related to the audits of
the three components and recruitment of consultants to gather supporting documentation
for component 1.

39.    All Financial Management Reports were evaluated as satisfactory by the Bank.
Technical audit reports for components 1 and 2 were submitted with delay. The
component 1 audit revealed US$5.22 million in ineligible expenditures (retroactive date
beyond six months of effectiveness, imports not on the positive list). The corresponding
withdrawal applications were cancelled and supporting documentation for imports in the
corresponding amount was submitted to the Bank. The component 1 audit confirmed that
counterpart funds from component 1 were used in conformity with the government's
Emergency Recovery Program and not for military or security expenditure.

40.     Financial Management is rated Moderately Satisfactory, due to the findings of the
audit of component 2. US$10.8 million had been disbursed initially, but as a result of the
audit, US$4.55 million of expenditures had to be qualified as ineligible due to non-
compliance with the exact terms in the Financing Agreement. The amount of ineligible
expenditures were primarily attributed to the portion of salaries paid to "replacement
teachers" who were not on the public payroll ("enseignants non mécanisés") while the
Financing Agreement only agreed to reimburse salaries of teachers on the official payroll.
According to the audit, 58.1 percent of teachers had signed off on the payroll, while 41.9
percent were cases of "replacement teachers", and fictive teachers constituted less than 1
percent. It should be noted that the practice of paying replacement teachers with salaries
of teachers who have left for various reasons (retirement, death and termination) is
permitted by the DRC government. The audit report did not indicate that these ineligible
expenditures resulted from misprocurement, fraud or corruption. The component 3 audit
and the audit of project's financial statements are due on June 30.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
41.    The Project was a response to an emergency situation and did not finance physical
investments. In terms of the next phase, the lessons learned from the Project regarding
financing of teacher salaries have already fed into the Bank-financed Education Sector
Project and served other donors following a similar approach. Also, the Bank is
supporting the government through an Urban Water Supply Project (US$190 million).



                                            8
Under this operation, an expenditure review of all of REGIDESO spending is being
prepared. This review will provide more knowledge of the company's budget
management and spending efficiency, providing insights that could not be gained through
the Project component 3 impact study due to the impossibility of attributing specific
investments to Project funds. The issue of payment of the State's utility bills is also
followed up under other Bank-financed operations (see sections 3.2 and 4).

42.      There is a need to sustain the institutional capacity acquired by the PCU. As a
number of DRC emergency operations implemented by the PCU presently draw to a
close, a clear strategy for the incorporation of PCU competencies into permanent
institutions should be defined to assure fluid transition.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives
43.     Relevance of objectives is rated High, as the objectives of the project remain
relevant. The Project was able to help DRC overcome a temporary crisis situation and
assure renewed economic stability. This contributed, along with other donor support,
which the Project itself leveraged, to the country reaching its HIPC completion point in
2010, thus attaining US$12.3 billion in debt relief. The Bank CAS covers the FY08-FY11
period, and has not changed since Project appraisal. The overall Bank priorities for DRC
remain unchanged. The Bank is supporting the water, energy, and education sectors
through investment lending operations, which all benefited from the Project's support to
assuring continuity of services in the various sectors and advancing key sector reforms.
Design
44.     Relevance of design is rated Substantial. Using an emergency recovery grant
(based on OP 8.00) as an instrument, the existing IDA allocation was leveraged to
respond to the emergency situation. As described above (Section 2.1), the design was
relevant to the challenges identified at appraisal and remains relevant in light of the
ability of the Project to mitigate the impact of the financial crisis and to the current
challenges in the sectors covered by the Project. The incorporation of lessons learned
regarding quick disbursement, including through retroactive financing, and the sector
knowledge were key success factors.
Implementation
45.    During implementation, the project was regularly adapted to meet the challenges
encountered. The Bank task team was proactive in identifying bottlenecks to project
implementation and disbursement and the project was restructured in a record time and
extended to allow full implementation of all Project activities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
46.     The achievement of the PDO is rated Satisfactory. The resources made available
to the government through the Project contributed to assuring macro-economic stability
and to mitigating the impacts of the global financial crisis on the economy of DRC


                                           9
(particularly utilities and education sectors), as described below. All outcome indicators
were achieved, in spite of the challenging condition prevailing at appraisal. The project
particularly played a stabilizing role in the first half of 2009, in conjunction with funds
from other donors.
Achievement of outcome indicators
47.    The PDO was specifically achieved as measured by the three outcome indicators,
one per component:

       Component 1: Financing of imports of essential goods and commodities. The
       outcome indicator was "shortage of key commodities over the next 3 months" and
       was achieved as measured by the consumer price index. Three-month inflation
       decreased from 28.8 percent at the end of April 2009 to 25.3 percent at the end of
       June, showing better availability of commodities on the positive list of imports.
       This result should be compared to a situation with accelerating inflation prior to
       the project, a trend which the project contributed to reversing. As shown in the
       graph in Annex 1, there were no price spikes for the main categories of goods
       imported over the critical months following effectiveness, indicating that there
       were no major shortages of goods on the local markets. Financing of USD 69.7
       million of imports under the Project contributed to this outcome.

       Component 2: Financing of primary and secondary school teachers salaries.
       Teachers received regular salary payments for the months of March, April, and
       May of 2009, as foreseen by the PDO indicators. In fact, regular payments
       continued for the entire 2009-2010 school year. Reimbursement to the
       government for the payment of salaries to the amount of US$6.2 million
       contributed to assuring continuity of education. The reallocation from component
       2 to component 1 did thus not affect the level of salary payment, since the
       government was able to continue to pay salaries with the actual level of
       component 2 financing, based on already budgeted funds. A salary mass of
       US$48 million was paid to teachers during the three-month period, contributing to
       improving household income throughout the territory. The component support
       contributed to attaining the government's overall objective of one million new
       children in school in 2009. It should be noted that the African Development Bank
       (AfDB) subsequently used the same arrangements to reimburse the government
       for the payment of three months of teacher's salaries. Continuity of education for
       the 2009-2010 school year may not have been possible without the support of the
       Bank and AfDB. For the first time in years the start of the school year in 2009
       was not marked by strikes. In 2009, there were 13.9 million children in school
       who benefited from this.

       Component 3: Financing State water and electricity bills. The bills were paid as
       foreseen by the PDO indicators for the first and second quarter of 2009, for a total
       amount of US$23.4 million. This contributed to improved finances of
       REGIDESO (water) and SNEL (electricity) and prevented the financial crisis
       from impacting service provision. More specifically, REGIDESO increased
       investments by US$19.1 million between 2008 and 2009 and SNEL increased


                                            10
       investments by US$25.7 million. These results would likely not have been
       possible without the support of the Project.

       Further, the covenants applicable to project implementation laid the groundwork
       for improved sector performance. The use of metering and rationalizing of
       consumption contributed to reducing the government's electricity bill from USD
       23.9 million in 2008 to USD 21.4 million in 2010. The water bill has been
       reduced even more, from USD 29.6 million in 2009 to USD 18.2 million for the
       period January - October 2010 (corresponding to an annualized consumption of
       USD 24.3 million). Prior to the Project, 20 percent of billing was on a flat-rate
       basis, whereas presently, only 2 percent of consumption is flat-rate billing. The
       government's adoption of the inter-ministerial decrees establishing simplified
       procedures for payment of the government's water and electricity bills, originally
       planned in the context of other ongoing Bank-financed sector operations but
       speeded up by the Project, has resulted in reducing billing time from about 150
       days to below 60 days, in conformity with the utility companies' action plans.

48.      The Bank support, through the Project, was instrumental in bringing on board
other donors. The project was used by other partners using the same design and
institutional arrangements to provide additional resources to mitigate the impact of the
financial crisis. An IMF Exogenous Shock Facility of US$195.5 million was approved
for DRC on March 11, 2009. The AfDB used the Project procedures and the PCU to
mount a similar operation for US$97 million, approved in May 2009, and the European
Union contributed US$65.5 million to mitigate the emergency situation. IDA resources
and close policy brokering with key government counterparts were essential in helping
the government stay the course through the crisis in terms of prudent macroeconomic
management. Also, Belgium has entered into an agreement with the Bank to manage a
grant of EUR 20 million, using the procedures developed under component 2 of the
Project to support the education sector in DRC (disbursement took place on February 25,
2011, the ex-ante audit was financed under the Project) and the EU is positioned to
follow the same approach, having already conducted an audit.
Macro-economic evolution
49.     As described in the context section, the macro-economy of DRC was rapidly
deteriorating during the first months of 2009. For this reason, the timing of the Bank
support to the DRC through the Project was crucial.

50.    Accumulation of reserves, as a project externality, was a sign that the
operation diminished short-term shortage and, in combination with appropriate policies
by the government, helped to stabilize the economy. International reserves increased
from US$32.8 million in February 2009 (equivalent to 0.26 weeks of imports) to
US$237.3 million at the end of March, through the disbursement of an IMF Exogenous
Shock Facility of US$195.5 million. Subsequently the reserves continued to deplete, and
disbursement of Project funds in March, April, and May prevented reserves from
reaching alarming levels. At the end of July, the reserves stabilized at US$199.1 million
and continued to increase, reaching US$1,002.8 million at the end of 2009 and
US$1,182.8 by the Project closing date (August 31, 2010). This outcome is in line with


                                           11
the analysis carried out at appraisal that the size and timing of support from the IMF and
the World Bank would provide a bridge to give the government space to take its own
measures to stabilize the economy going forward. This "bridge" assured adequacy of
foreign exchange to maintain key imports during the critical 3 to 4 months, by which time
combined policy responses and additional donor support materialized to sustain the
economic recovery program.

51.     Prudent macro-economic management, made possible by the Project and
other external funds, allowed the BCC to succeed in maintaining inflation under
control. Depreciation has a tendency to hike the price of imported goods. Inflation
decreased from a monthly average of 7.1 percent in the first two months of 2009 to 3.0
percent on average for the period of March through December 2009. In 2010, inflation is
projected at 9.9 percent, corresponding to a monthly average of 0.8 percent.

52.     A major objective was to provide rapid assistance to the government in the face of
the financial crisis. This was achieved through the quick disbursement of the Project,
with 43 percent of the grant disbursed four weeks after effectiveness and 78 percent
disbursed within six months. It is difficult to establish a counterfactual situation ("without
project" situation), but given the rapidly deteriorating macro-economy of DRC in the first
months of 2009, it is highly likely that the economy would have gone over the edge
without external support, with a potential negative spiral of deteriorating public services,
economic slowdown, and resurgence of insecurity as a consequence.
Further impact analysis
53.     It should be noted that an evaluation of the impact of component 3 was carried out
by a consultant in an attempt to demonstrate specific outcomes attributable to the Project.
The consultant visited sites reported by the two utility companies as having benefited
from the amounts corresponding to the payment of the State's utility bills. SNEL reported
that without the EPMIFC, they would not have had funds to respond to a transformer
station breakdown in Kinshasa in September 2010, which would have resulted in 59,502
connections being cut off from the grid for an extended period of time. Another result
attributed to the Project by SNEL was the increase in the number of electricity
connections from 559,228 in 2009 to 597,901 in 2010 (an increase of 38,673 connections,
or 7 percent). REGIDESO reported that the Project funds principally allowed the
company to purchase chemical products to assure quality of water to the clients. These
products have delivery times of up to six months, and being able to carry out stock
planning is important. Overall, supervision missions followed up closely on performance
of sectors covered by the Project, in collaboration with other Bank-funded sector
operations. However, as the Project covered the State's expenditures for public utility
bills, paid directly to the utility companies, it is not possible to isolate and verify use of
Project funds by the utility companies, and hence no attribution of specific outcomes
related to physical investments is possible, in spite of the efforts made.

3.3 Efficiency
54.     Efficiency is rated Substantial. The Project made use of the OP 8.00 to assure
efficient implementation and paved the way for the support of other donors. The Project



                                             12
further assured that gains to the sectors supported were not jeopardized, by assuring
continuity to the education and utilities sectors supported by other Bank projects and
speeding up reforms. Disbursement was on track, with 43 percent of the grant disbursed
four weeks after effectiveness and 78 percent disbursed within six months. An appraisal
estimate of 30 staff weeks needed for implementation compares to the 22 staff weeks
actually spent during supervision, while managing to keep a very close dialogue with the
client and leveraging country office staff for close implementation support. The Project
can reasonably be said to have presented the least-cost way of attaining the objectives. In
fact, there was no material alternative to the option chosen to support the government
within the very tight time constraints faced by the Project.

55.    NPV and ERR cannot be calculated for this type of project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
56.     The overall outcome rating of Satisfactory is justified by: (a) the high relevance of
the Project, responding to an emergency situation in a very short period of time, with
ability to disburse quickly, and with only minor shortcomings on the design of
component 2; (b) the PDO was achieved, since the project contributed to mitigating the
impact of the financial crisis; and (c) efficiency is rated Substantial.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
57.     The Project contributed to the macro-economic stability needed for the DRC to
reach the HIPC completion point and attain US$12.3 billion in debt relief. The lessons
learned from component 2 fed into the design of the Bank-financed Education Sector
Project, which uses the teaching entity rather than only specific teachers on the public
payroll to reimburse the government for salaries paid.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
58.    The institutional change induced by the Project is described in Section 3.2.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
59.    There were no other unintended outcomes or impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
60.     A workshop was held during the Project MTR, gathering more than 50
representatives from the institutions involved in project implementation. Workshop
participants provided positive feedback and it was underscored that almost 80 percent of
project funds had been disbursed only 6 months after effectiveness. Participants noted the
key project impacts: (a) DRC international reserves had increased from US$39 million in
January 2009 to US$268 million in July, (b) payments to teachers were not disrupted,
thus allowing for continuous education services, and (c) payment of the State's bills
under the operation had enabled the water and electricity utilities to continue providing
key social services. More details on the MTR workshop can be found in Annex 6.




                                              13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
61.      The overall risk, as it relates to the impact of the financial crisis on the Congolese
economy and the sectors covered by the Project, is rated Substantial. Strictly speaking,
there is no longer a risk that the specific global financial crisis, which peaked in 2009,
will affect DRC's economy. However, this ICR notes that the country is still emerging
from post-conflict status and the underlying socio-economic situation remains fragile.
This leaves the economy exposed to external shocks of a similar nature, in spite of the
economy being in much better shape than in early 2009. Although operations under OP
8.00 are not meant to address long-term economic issues this ICR also notes that, on the
sector level, the government continues to pay teacher's salaries, providing a good
measure of reassurance that education will not be interrupted. However, the government
has not paid its utility bills since October 2009, beyond what was financed by the Project
and the AfDB. Reforms are supported by other Bank-financed sector operations to
improve sustainability of the water and electricity sectors. In this context, the government
has adopted a letter of sector policy to pay its bills. Water and electricity delivery has so
far not been affected, but in the longer term, sustainability will depend on continued
institutional reform that is so far not progressing at the expected pace, although the
Project contributed to temporarily speeding up reforms.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
62.     The Bank was able to respond rapidly to the challenge of the deteriorating
economy of DRC and mount an operation in a very short time, drawing on wide sector
expertise and leveraging analytical work. The Project is an example of quality support to
the client through a team effort between a number of sector units and the CMU. Further,
the Bank team was able to pay attention to M&E issues, which have often been
overlooked in previous emergency operations in the two Congos. The Project was
innovative, being the first to use the IDA FTF in the Africa Region (two days after the
first IDA FTF Board presentation Bank-wide). Further, the dialogue with other donors
and sharing of experience allowed others to rely on the approach developed by the Bank
to assure a scale-up of the emergency support provided to the government. The ability to
rapidly mount a quick-disbursing operation, which was implemented with only minor
problems (particularly for the education component) and paved the way for other donors
to support the government, justifies the Satisfactory rating.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
63.     The Bank provided good implementation support to the client, including through
reinforcing the country office with fiduciary staff and regular supervision missions. The
first supervision mission was carried out three weeks after effectiveness, including
financial management, procurement, and disbursement staff. The first seven months saw
three supervision missions; a total of five supervision missions were carried out in the


                                              14
space of 18 months, all including fiduciary aspects and follow-up on payment of the
State's utility bills. Close supervision and support to the PCU was instrumental in
assuring quick disbursement.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
64.     The overall Satisfactory rating is justified, since the Project is an example of
collective Bank effort with strong team leadership, making full use of the Bank's cutting
edge sector knowledge and close relationship with the client to mount a sound operation
under very tight time constraints and follow through on implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
65.      In spite of DRC being a fragile state facing a crisis, the government was fully
engaged in project preparation and facilitated appraisal, led by the Technical Reform
Committee in the Ministry of Finance and with implication of all project beneficiary
institutions. The government also agreed to use the most efficient PCU to implement the
Project. During implementation, the government eventually took all actions required,
albeit it was slow to sign the inter-ministerial decrees establishing simplified procedures
for payment of the government's water and electricity bills and it was also late in
adopting the anti-corruption plan and implementing it. Following the final audit of
component 2, received on February 26, 2010, the government proceeded to reimburse the
ineligible expenditures on February 27, 2010, before the initial closing date of March 1,
2010, thus allowing for an extension of the Project. The Ministry of Education was not
able to provide correct definitions of eligible teachers, resulting in the government
eventually having to reimburse US$4.6 million for component 2 of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
66.     The PCU proved to be an effective and efficient implementing agency. The
operating cost was low, at 0.9 percent of the total project amount disbursed, including the
cost of project audits. This was made possible by the PCU incorporating the Project in its
work program without hiring additional staff. The PCU was recognized by the Bank by
means of an award to the Project granted in June 2010 in recognition of the rapid
response to the financial crisis. The PCU also played a key role in preparing a request to
assure the quick disbursement of the US$4.6 million reimbursed under component 2.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
67.    The rating is justified by the satisfactory performance of both the government and
the implementing agency.




                                            15
6. Lessons Learned
68.    Combined use of the IDA FTF and limited conditionality allowed fast
preparation and disbursement and assured tangible results. Use of the IDA FTF
(which was used for the first time in the Africa Region under the Project and for the
second time Bank-wide) allowed the Bank to intervene in a very short timeframe. The
innovative nature of the Project, with a limited number of key conditions designed to
speed up sector reforms, building entirely on existing dialogue and ongoing Bank-
financed sector operations, allowed the project to disburse 63 percent of funds in four
months. During implementation, however, disbursement was subject to a number of
necessary supporting documents, especially for component 1. The assembling of these
documents from commercial banks constituted a substantial workload, which was not
easy to overcome in a few months. Reducing disbursement conditions, to the extent
possible while assuring adequate fiduciary safeguards, would facilitate collection of
supporting documentation and speed up disbursements.

69.      Usefulness of relying on existing structures to implement an emergency
project. For this type of emergency project, the PCU comes out as an adequate structure,
which, overall, was able to assure sound organization and timely implementation, and
involve the various stakeholders in project implementation. The PCU knowledge of Bank
procedures, acquired through implementation of other Bank-financed projects, was
critical to fast project implementation.

70.     Possibility of targeting funds from payment of the government's utility bills.
The approach aimed at financing the payment of the State's water and electricity bills
does not permit attribution of REGIDESO and SNEL expenditures, since the IDA-funds
were integrated into the two utility companies' budgets. This choice of financing method
allowed a rapid mobilization of resources by the government, a major objective of the
Project in a crisis situation, while providing adequate fiduciary safeguards through proof
of payment of the bills as a condition for disbursement. However, the approach does not
allow attribution of utilization of the funds by the two companies and future operations
should weigh the objective of crisis response against a more clear focus on demonstrated
impacts on the ground.

71.     Use of the "filled teaching position" instead of the specific individual teacher
to pay for teachers' salaries, due to the high mobility of teachers. The system of
reimbursement of teacher salaries allows verification that funds go towards reimbursing
the government for services actually delivered by teachers. However, if the Project was to
be repeated, it is recommended to base reimbursements on the presence of the teaching
entity (including replacement teachers ­ "enseignants non mécanisés") rather than only
specific teachers on the public payroll ("enseignants mécanisés"). This approach is being
evaluated for adoption by the Bank-financed Education Sector Project and requires
accompanying measures to increase and monitor accountability of various factors, such
as giving a greater responsibility to the confessional institutions (which manage these
schools) in establishing adequate reporting mechanisms.

72.    Need for close technical and fiduciary support to this type of emergency
project to assure full respect of compliance with fiduciary needs. The project was the


                                           16
subject of intense implementation support with five fully staffed supervision missions in
18 months and continuous fiduciary support from country office staff to the PCU. This
was necessary to assure immediate response to even minor difficulties encountered
during project implementation and to assure that the Project remained on track, given the
urgency of the situation. The close working relationship between the Bank and client
specifically allowed an immediate response to the findings of the component 2 audit, with
reimbursement of funds, restructuring and reallocation of funds taking place within two
weeks.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
73.     The draft ICR, translated into French, was shared with the Borrower. Comments
received (see annex 7.2) relate to exchange rates for AfDB financing and minor
corrections, which are incorporated in the final ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers
74.    There were no cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
75.     The draft ICR was shared with key project partners. Comments were received
from the IMF, supporting the operation and highlighting the speed of its preparation and
the effect.




                                           17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
          Components                                        Estimate
                                       (US$ millions)                           Appraisal
                                                          (US$ millions)
Imports of essential goods and
                                             58.00              69.69              120.16
commodities
Primary and secondary school
                                             16.00               6.24               39.00
teachers' salaries.
State water and electricity bills
(incl. project implementation                26.00              25.16               96.77
costs).
              Total Baseline Cost           100.00             101.09              101.09
Physical Contingencies                        0.00               0.00                n.a.
Price Contingencies                           0.00               0.00                n.a.
               Total Project Costs          100.00             101.09              101.09
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00               0.00                n.a
       Total Financing Required             100.00             101.09              101.09


(b) Financing
                                               Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                              Type of                                           Percentage of
    Source of Funds                            Estimate         Estimate
                            Cofinancing                                          Appraisal
                                             (US$ millions)   (US$ millions)
Borrower                                             0.00             0.00              n.a.
IDA Grant                                          100.00           101.09            101.09




                                                18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Imports of essential goods and commodities
Appraisal cost: US$58.00 million. Percent of appraisal cost: 58.0 percent.
Actual cost: US$69.69 million. Percent of actual total project cost: 68.9 percent.

The component reimbursed the government for $69.7 million dollars of imports, split
among the following categories:

            Category                       Amount            Percentage of total       Number of
                                         (US$ million)       component amount        imports financed
Food products                                42.81                   61.4%                  290
Oil products                                 24.19                   34.7%                   65
Telecommunication equipment                   2.40                    3.4%                   12
Construction materials                        0.31                    0.4%                     4

Results:

The expected results of the component were fully achieved. The Consumer Price Index
(CPI) decreased. Three-month inflation decreased from 28.8 percent at the end of April
2009 to 25.3 percent at the end of June, showing better availability of commodities on the
positive list of imports. The CPI was chosen as a proxy for inflation and availability of
key imports on the Congolese market. As shown in the graph below, there were no price
spikes for imported goods during the three months following effectiveness.




Chart 1: Evolution in price of major imported goods.

The component achieved 120 percent of expected outputs, measured by the amount of imports
financed (US$69.7 achieved against US$58 expected at appraisal). The project surpassed the
indictor due to the reallocations from components 2 and 3. Imports by category


                                                       19
Component 2: Primary and secondary school teachers' salaries
Appraisal cost: US$16.00 million. Percent of appraisal cost: 16.0 percent.
Actual cost: US$6.24 million. Percent of actual total project cost: 6.2 percent.

The Project reimbursed the government for the payment of the salaries of 144,502
teachers. This corresponds to 100 percent of teachers effectively teaching and listed on
the payroll for the month of November 2008, as confirmed by the component 2 audit. The
audit found that only 58.1 percent of the total number of teachers (248,713) was listed on
the payroll.

Results:

The component achieved 100 percent of expected outcomes, with three months of
teacher's salaries being paid in 2009 (March, April, and May), in accordance with project
objectives as determined by what the project could reasonably be held accountable for.
The payment was made possible by the reimbursement of teacher's salaries to the
government. The trend of payment in fact continued for the entire 2009-2010 school year.

Component 3: State water and electricity bills (incl. project implementation cost)
Appraisal cost: US$26.00 million. Percent of appraisal cost: 26.0 percent.
Actual cost: US$25.16 million. Percent of actual total project cost: 24.9 percent.

The Project financed:

         The State's water bills to REGIDESO for the months of January through June
         2009 for an amount of US$11.5 million.
         The State's electricity bills for Kinshasa for the months of January through June
         2009 and for the Katanga and Bas-Congo provinces for the months of April
         through June, following installation of meters, for a total amount of US$11.9
         million.
         Component 1, 2, and 3 audits.
         Project management and implementation.
         Impact assessment of component 3.

Results:

The component achievement 100 of expected outcomes. The State's water bills to REGIDESO
for the months of January through June 2009 were paid, as were the State's electricity bills for
Kinshasa for the months of January through June 2009 and for the Katanga and Bas-Congo
provinces for the months of April through June.




                                                     20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

There is substantial evidence to support the analysis that in the absence of the Project,
and the support of other donors that the Project paved the way for, the government would
have faced a situation of having to cut essential social spending or resort to inflationary
spending of the budget deficit. Both solutions would potentially lead to a spiral of
resurgence of insecurity, with substantial cost to the economy, impacting the majority of
the population, and leading to increased political instability. However, no economic or
financial analysis was carried out at appraisal. NPV and ERR cannot be calculated for
this type of project. The main text contains the full analysis of project efficiency.




                                            21
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
         Names                           Title                   Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Franck Bousquet           Sr. Financial Specialist             AFTU2 TTL
Johannes Herderschee      Sr. Economist                        AFTP3
Susan Opper               Sr. Education Specialist             AFTH3
Nathalie S. Munzberg      Sr. Counsel                          LEGAF
Gilles Veuillot           Sr. Counsel                          LEGAF
Elisabeth Huybens         Lead Country Officer                 ECCU4
Aissatou Diallo           Finance Officer                      LOAFC
Ernestina Attafuah        Sr. Program Assistant                AFTU2
Celeste Mukuna            Team Assistant                       AFCC2
Emilie Ayaza Mushobekwa   Economist                            AFTP3
Tesfaalem G. Iyesus       Sr. Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
Mamadou Sevede            Consultant                           AFTU2 Procurement Spec.
Philippe Mahele Liwoke    Sr. Procurement Specialist           AFTPM
Bourama Diaite            Sr. Procurement Specialist           AFTPM
Jean Doyen                Consultant                           WSP   Water Specialist
Yvette Djachechi          Sr. Social Development Specialist    AFTCS
Cecile Ramsay             Operations Advisor                   AFTQK
Mohammed Khatouri         Lead M&E Specialist                  AFTRL
Nestor Coffi              Sr. Financial Management Spec.       AFTFM
Etienne Nkoa              Sr. Financial Management Spec.       AFTFM
Guillemette Jaffrin       Sr. Private Sector Specialist        AFTFP
Michel E. Layec           Lead Energy Specialist               AFTEG
Paul Jonathan Martin      Sr. Environment Specialist           AFTEN
Supervision/ICR
Franck Bousquet           Program Coordinator                  AFTUW    TTL
Ernestina Attafuah        Sr. Program Assistant                AFTUW
Nestor Coffi              Sr. Financial Management Spec.       AFTFM
Aissatou Diallo           Finance Officer                      CTRFC
Nathalie S. Munzberg      Sr. Counsel                          LEGAF
Madio Fall                Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist    ETWAF
Johannes Herderschee      Sr. Economist                        AFTP3
Philippe Mahele Liwoke    Sr. Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
Gaspy Gedeon Muanda       ET Consultant                        AFTFM    Financial Mgmt. Spec.
Celeste Mukuna            Team Assistant                       AFCC2
Nicole Kasongo Kazadi     ET Temporary                         AFCC2    Team Assistant
Emilie Ayaza Mushobekwa   Economist                            AFTP3
Rachidi B. Radji          Sector Lead Specialist, Human Dev.   AFTED
Etienne Nkoa              Sr. Financial Management Spec.       AFTFM
Susan Opper               Sr. Education Specialist             AFTED
Stéphane Raphael Dahan    Young Professional                   ECSSD    Water Specialist
Mamadou Sevede            Consultant                           AFTWR    Water Specialist



                                            22
Johan Verhaghe            Consultant                       AFTED Education Specialist
Aissata Z. Zerbo          Procurement Analyst              AFTUW
Christian Vang Eghoff     Operations Officer               AFCW3 ICR team leader

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY09                                         27.66                   214.76
                          Total:                27.66                   214.76
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                           4.22                    27.50
  FY10                                          11.57                   101.46
  FY11                                           5.75                    39.89
                          Total:                21.54                   168.85




                                          23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No beneficiary survey was carried out.




                                         24
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A workshop was held during the Project MTR, on October 14, 2009, gathering more than
50 representatives from the institutions involved in project implementation: the Ministry
of Finance, the Ministry of Budget, The Ministry of Education, BCC, REGIDESO, SNEL,
the PCU, and the World Bank.

The workshop provided positive feedback from all key stakeholders. It was underscored
that almost 80 percent of project funds had been disbursed only 6 months after
effectiveness. Participants noted the key project impacts: (a) the representatives of the
Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank confirmed that DRC international reserves had
increased from US$39 million in January 2009 to US$268 million in July, (b)
representatives of the Ministry of Education confirmed that payments to teachers were
not disrupted, thus allowing for continuous education services, and (c) the two general
managers of the water utility (REGIDESO) and electricity utility (SNEL) confirmed that
the payment of the State's bills under the operation had enabled the utility companies to
continue providing key social services.

The workshop allowed participants to discuss how to accelerate the implementation of
the Project. It was agreed that there was no need to amend the Financing Agreement, as
project implementation was progressing well overall.

It was agreed not to reallocate an exchange rate gain at that time, to safeguard against an
inverse exchange rate evolution.




                                            25
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

 The summary of the borrower's ICR is included below as annex 7.1.

 The draft ICR, translated into French, was shared with the Borrower for comments.
 Comments are included below as Annex 7.2

 Annex 7.1 Summary of Borrower's ICR.

0. Introduction
Le Gouvernement avait adressé à la Banque mondiale en décembre 2008, la lettre de politique de
développement devant lui permettre de faire face à la crise économique et financière qui a secoué
le monde depuis le deuxième semestre de l'année 2008. Cette lettre mettait un accent particulier
sur des politiques conjoncturelles, essentiellement la politique budgétaire et la politique monétaire.
La politique budgétaire du Gouvernement avait pour objectifs : (i) contribuer à la stabilité macro-
économique en évitant tout recours au financement monétaire ; (ii) assurer le service de la dette ;
et (iii) assurer la fourniture de services sociaux, notamment l'éducation, l'eau et l'électricité.

En réponse à la lettre de politique de développement du Gouvernement, la Banque mondiale avait
réagit favorablement en accordant un don de 66,2 millions de DTS représentant 100 millions
d'USD au titre du Projet d'Urgence d'Atténuation des Impacts de la Crise Financière, PUAICF en
sigle.

1. Données de base du projet
Le projet d'urgence d'atténuation des impacts de la crise financière, PUAICF en sigle, a été
approuvé par le Conseil d'Administration de l'IDA le 26 février 2009. L'accord de don H
453-ZR y relatif a été signé le 02 mars 2009 pour un montant de 66,2 millions de DTS
représentant 100 millions de dollars américains. Ce projet est entré en vigueur le 20 mars
2009 et la clôture du don était initialement prévue le 31 mars 2010. La date de clôture
susmentionnée a été prorogée au 31 août 2010 suite aux conclusions de l'audit technique de la
composante éducation qui ont attesté des dépenses inéligibles de l'ordre de 4,55 millions
d'USD.

2. Objectifs et description du projet
Le PUAICF avait pour objectif d'aider la RDC à faire face aux impacts de la crise financière
globale sur l'économie du pays à travers un soutien à la balance des paiements destiné à
faciliter l'importation des biens essentiels et à la préservation des services sociaux clés dans
les domaines de l'éducation ainsi que de la fourniture d'eau et d'électricité. Le PUIAICF
compte trois principales composantes, à savoir : (i) le financement des importations des
marchandises et produits essentiels, (ii) le financement des salaires des enseignants des écoles
primaires et secondaires du secteur public, et (iii) le financement des factures d'eau et
d'électricité de l'Etat.

3. Réalisation des conditions du projet
 Le projet d'urgence d'atténuation des impacts de la crise financière comportait deux types de
conditions, à savoir : (i) les conditions d'entrée en vigueur du projet ainsi que (ii) les
conditions de décaissement. L'entrée en vigueur du PUAICF était conditionnée à la
promulgation par le Président de la République de l'ordonnance d'approbation de l'Accord


                                                26
de don du projet ainsi que la signature de l'avis juridique par le Procureur Général de la
République. Initialement prévues pour le 02 mars 2009, ces conditions ont été remplies après
trois semaines de retard, soit le 20 mars 2009 correspondant à la date d'entrée en vigueur du
projet. L'unique condition de décaissement du projet concernait l'ouverture des comptes
désignés à la Banque centrale du Congo. Cette condition a été réalisée facilement et dans le
délai convenu au moment des négociations de l'Accord de Don.

4. Supervision du projet
 Pendant l'exécution du projet, la Banque mondiale a effectué cinq missions de supervision
dont la plus importante était la troisième consacrée à la revue à mi-parcours.

5. Organisation et gestion du projet
L'architecture institutionnelle gouvernementale mise en place dans le cadre du PUAICF/IDA
comprenait le comité de pilotage, l'agence d'exécution (l'UCoP) ainsi que les structures
impliquées dans la mise en oeuvre du projet : (i) le Ministère des Finances et de la Banque
centrale du Congo pour les composantes 1, 2 et 3 ; (ii) la Direction Générale des Douanes et
Accises pour la composante 1 ; (iii) le Ministère de l'Enseignement Primaire, Secondaire et
Professionnel pour la composante 2 ; et (iv) la REGIDESO et la SNEL pour la composante 3.

6. Passation des marchés
Quatre activités de passation des marchés ont été financées sur le projet PUAICF, à savoir : (i)
l'audit technique des composantes 1 et 3 ; (ii) l'audit technique de la composante 2
spécifiquement le Fonds belge ; (iii) l'audit financier et technique de la composante 3 ; et
enfin (iv) le recrutement de deux assistants au projet. Toutes ces passations de marché avaient
fait l'objet d'une revue préalable par la Banque mondiale, et les commentaires que la Banque
mondiale avait formulées en son temps avaient été pris en compte dans chacun des processus
de passation des marchés cités ci-haut. C'est dans ce cadre que la cinquième mission de
supervision avait estimé globalement satisfaisante la performance de la passation des marchés
du PUAICF.

7. Exécution du projet
L'exécution du projet d'urgence d'atténuation des impacts de la crise financière a été jugée
globalement satisfaisante comme l'avaient attesté les cinq missions de supervision du projet
effectuées par les équipes de la Banque mondiale. La qualité du management de l'UCoP
associé aux missions de supervision de la Banque mondiale ainsi que l'appropriation du projet
par les bénéficiaires ont constitué des atouts majeurs qui ont accéléré la mise en oeuvre du
projet. L'exécution du projet d'urgence d'atténuation des impacts de la crise financière était
essentiellement marquée par une accélération du taux de décaissement, une fréquence de
missions de supervision de la Banque mondiale et une excellente supervision en gestion
financière.

7.1. Supervision ­ revue à mi-parcours
La troisième mission de supervision a concerné essentiellement la revue à mi-parcours du
projet qui s'est déroulée du 12 au 19 octobre 2009. A cet effet, l'UCoP a organisé le 14
octobre 2009 un atelier qui a connu une participation importante. La revue à mi-parcours du
projet a été jugée globalement satisfaisante au regard des avancées enregistrées dans
l'exécution de chaque composante. Différentes recommandations ont été formulées par
composante.



                                               27
S'agissant du financement des importations des marchandises et produits essentiels, il a été
demandé à l'UCoP de (i) soumettre une DRF de rectification pour déduire les montants
correspondants aux véhicules et divers avant le 31 octobre 2010 , et (ii) poursuivre la collecte
des pièces justificatives en prévision de la réallocation provenant de la composante 2 (frais de
mise à disposition des fonds et frais de transport des salaires) et de la composante 3 (dû au
différentiel du taux de change).

En ce qui concerne le financement des salaires des enseignants des écoles primaires et
secondaires publiquement administrées, les prévisions de décaissements préparées par l'UCoP
ont révélé un reliquat d'USD 1,9 million, montant à réallouer en faveur de la composante 1.
Par ailleurs, la mission d'audit de la composante 2 avait débuté au mois de juillet 2009 mais
n'a pu se poursuivre sur le terrain avec des vérifications auprès des enseignants car ces
derniers étaient encore en vacances. La mission a ainsi recommandé de finaliser l'audit au 15
novembre 2009, de procéder ensuite aux ajustements sur base de l'audit, de décaisser le
montant éligible en dégageant ainsi le reliquat à réallouer à la composante 1 sur demande
écrite du Ministre des Finances.

Concernant le financement des factures d'eau et d'électricité de l'Etat, la mission a été
informée du démarrage de la campagne de vulgarisation et de sensibilisation des instances
officielles et ayants droits par la commission tripartite Budget-Regideso-Snel depuis
septembre 2009. Par ailleurs, la mission a été informée que 99% des compteurs des instances
officielles ont été posés et que la plupart des grands compteurs sont dotés de logette de
protection. La mission a ainsi recommandé que les activités non réalisées du plan d'action qui
avait été finalisé lors de la mission de juillet les soient dans les plus brefs délais en vue
d'accélérer l'exécution de cette composante.

Il sied de noter que pendant la revue à mi-parcours, la mission a recommandé à l'UCoP de
mettre effectivement en place les actions du plan anti-corruption finalisé et transmis à la
Banque Mondiale par le Ministère des Finances en juillet 2009.

7.2. Atteinte des objectifs
Le projet d'urgence d'atténuation des impacts de la crise financière avait pour objectif
principal d'atténuer les impacts immédiats et extrêmes de la crise financière internationale sur
l'économie congolaise au travers un soutien transitoire au financement des importations des
biens essentiels et à la préservation des services sociaux clés.

7.2.1. Amélioration des biens et services essentiels
 En ce qui concerne l'amélioration des importations des biens et services essentiels,
l'indicateur de résultats était la disponibilité des produits essentiels sur le marché congolais (à
travers l'indice de prix à la consommation).

Le financement IDA au titre du Programme d'Urgence d'Atténuation des Impacts de la Crise
Financière en République Démocratique du Congo (PUAICF/IDA en sigle), chiffré à 100,9
millions de USD a été encaissé en plusieurs tranches à partir du mois de mai 2009. Du point
de vue de la Banque Centrale du Congo, l'exécution du PUAICF a eu des effets bénéfiques
sur l'économie nationale à travers la consolidation du cadre macroéconomique comme le
témoigne l'évolution favorable des indicateurs relatifs aux réserves internationales, aux
marchés des changes , des biens et services ainsi qu'au service de la dette.



                                                28
-   Accroissement des réserves internationales
    Les ressources du PUAICF ont contribué à l'accroissement des réserves de change du pays,
    lesquelles sont passées de 32,87 millions de USD soit 0,26 semaine d'importation à fin février
    2009 à 1.182,81 millions de USD, soit 7,05 semaines d'importation au 31 aout 2010, en ce
    compris notamment les financements de la BAD d'un import de 108 millions de USD, de
    L'Union Européenne pour un montant de 65,5 millions de USD, du FMI dans le cadre des
    Facilité Elargies de Crédit ainsi que d'autres bailleurs de fonds.

-   Amélioration de l'offre de la devise sur le marché de change
    Le décaissement des ressources PUAICF a permis à la Banque Centrale d'accroître le volume
    de ses interventions sur le marché de changes, contribuant ainsi à l'accroissement de l'offre de
    la devise au plan interne. En effet au cours de l'année 2009, la Banque Centrale a vendu
    124,65 millions de dollars dont 114,65 millions, au cours de la période de mars à décembre
    2009. Ces interventions régulières sur le marché des changes n'ont été rendues possibles que
    grâce à l'apport des différents financements reçus des bailleurs des fonds dont l'IDA.

-   Atténuation des tensions sur le taux de change et sur le taux d'inflation
    A la suite des ressources ainsi obtenues, les interventions de la Banque Centrale, via la vente
    des devises sur le marché de change, ont permis d'amortir la dépréciation du Franc Congolais.
    En effet, entre janvier et février 2009, le taux de change a connu une dépréciation moyenne
    mensuelle de 3,16 % passant de 684,5 CDF/USD à 730,8 CDF/USD en moyenne au cours de
    cette période. De mars à décembre 2009, le taux de change s'est déprécié de 1,21 % en
    moyenne mensuelle, passant de 794,04 CDF/USD à 904,30 CDF/USD. Entre janvier et août
    2010, il s'est observé une appréciation moyenne mensuelle de 0,13 % de la monnaie nationale.
    A cet effet, le taux de change moyen mensuel est passé de 910,83 CDF/USD en janvier pour
    atteindre 901,38CDF/USD à fin août 2010.

    En ce qui concerne le comportement du taux d'inflation, il importe de relever la forte
    corrélation qui existe entre ce dernier et le taux de change. En effet, toute dépréciation du taux
    de change c'est-à-dire toute surchauffe sur le marché de change a tendance à emballer les prix
    des biens importés dans un premier temps puis les autres biens locaux ensuite. Ainsi, en raison
    de la maitrise du comportement du taux de change, induit entre autres pa l'acquisition r des
    ressources PUAICF qui ont permis l'accroissement de l'offre de la devise, la Banque Centrale
    est parvenue, en association avec les autres instruments de la politique monétaire à garder
    l'inflation sous contrôle. C'est ainsi que d'une moyenne mensuelle de 7,1% pour les deux
    premiers mois de l'année 2009, le taux d'inflation réalisé a reculé pour se situer à 3,02 % en
    moyenne mensuelle pour la période de mars à décembre 2009. En 2010, le taux d'inflation
    annuel devrait atteindre 9,9 % soit en moyenne un taux d'inflation de 0,8%.

-   Amélioration du service de la dette publique extérieure
    Les ressources obtenues des partenaires, dont l'IDA, ont permis aussi à la Banque Centrale de
    disposer d'une trésorerie aisée afin de rencontrer les différentes échéances de paiement de la
    dette publique extérieure. Ainsi, aucun arriéré de paiement de la dette publique extérieure n'a
    été observé ni en 2009 ni non plus en 2010.

    Perspectives
    Au cas où la Banque mondiale consentait à financer un projet similaire à l'avenir en faveur du
    gouvernement Congolais, nous recommanderions notamment :


                                                    29
-   Le décaissement des fonds destinés au projet en une tranche unique ;
-   Etablissement d'une liste négative des marchandises prohibées à l'importation, permettant
    ainsi au reste de marchandises d'être éligibles au projet ;
-   Le relèvement à la hausse du plafond du montant éligible au financement
-   La discussion préalable du contenu des termes de référence entre la banque mondiale et les
    représentants de la RDC avant la présentation dudit document sur la table des négociations
    officielles ;
-   L'assouplissement des conditionnalités notamment la réduction à l'essentiel le nombre des
    pièces justificatives à présenter.

    7.2.2 Paiement d'un mois de salaires aux enseignants mécanisés debout et assis
    Pour le secteur de l'éducation fondamentale, le Projet d'Atténuation des Impacts de la Crise
    Financière se proposait de financer les salaires des enseignants pour l'équivalent d'un mois
    pour un montant de 16 millions de dollars Américains. Au sujet des modalités de
    décaissement, il avait été convenu que 11,22 millions de dollars US soit 70% de l'allocation
    de la Composante titre soient décaissés dès l'entrée en vigueur du Projet, après vérification et
    certification des pièces y relatives. Quant au solde de 30%, son décaissement était subordonné
    à la conclusion satisfaisante d'un audit technique des listings acquittés du mois visé.

    Allocation initiale     MAD/Transport                 Absence des Solde à rembourser
    (en USD)                (en USD)                      OEF        (en (en USD)
                                                          USD)
    16 332 478,63        536 724,05                       368 707,46     15 427 047,12
    Montant remboursé/ IDA 70%    1er rembour.                      2ème rembour.
    10.798.932,98 $               9.587.545,37$                     1.211.387,61$

    Au regard des résultats de l'audit, il avait été constaté que 58% d'enseignants avaient acquittés
    les listings, 41% d'enseignants étaient des cas de remplacement et 1 % des fictifs. En
    conséquence, 4,55 millions ont été déclarés non éligibles et ont été remboursés par le
    Gouvernement de la République.

    Indicateur
    Au moins 3 mois de salaires versés régulièrement aux enseignants.
    Les salaires des mois de mars, avril et mai 2009 ont été régulièrement versés aux enseignants
    jusqu'à la fin de l'année 2009.

    Impacts du financement : Les principaux impacts sont : Rentrée scolaire apaisée ; absence
    des grèves élaguée ; organisation des évaluations assurée (test de fin d'études primaire,
    organisation des Examens d'Etat) ; 15.500.000 1 élèves ont suivi régulièrement leurs
    instructions ; des économies ont été réalisées par le Gouvernement, ce qui lui a permis de
    payer au mois de septembre 2010, 30.955 Enseignants supplémentaires. Le financement de


    1
      ICR note: The number of school children mentioned here (15.5 million) corresponds to the estimate
    provided to the ICR mission. However, the latest official number, available from the "Annuaires
    Statistiques 2008-2009" (13.9 million), is maintained for the purpose of this ICR (see main text).


                                                    30
l'IDA a permis au secteur de bénéficier des apports financiers d'autres bailleurs comme Union
Européenne, BAD et la Belgique. A date, le Gouvernement n'a pas de litiges dans le
versement des salaires des enseignants. Les efforts du Gouvernement ont permis à prendre en
charge plus de 30.955 enseignants. Depuis le mois de septembre 2010, le Gouvernement de la
République paye les salaires à        322.904 enseignants pour un montant mensuel de
18.816.497.923FC.

Perspectives
Si on demandait de recommencer l'expérience, on le ferait mais, plutôt qu'à procéder au
remboursement (financement rétroactif) on prendrait en charge les mois actifs compte tenu du
caractère très mouvant du personnel enseignant.

7.2.3. le paiement de 6 mois des factures d'eau et d'électricité des instances officielles.
S'agissant du financement des factures d'eau et d'électricité des instances officielles,
l'indicateur de résultats était le pourcentage des factures des instances officielles effectivement
recouvrées par la REGIDESO et la SNEL. Les informations recueillies auprès de ces
entreprises renseignent que toutes les factures de consommations d'eau et d'électricité du
premier semestre 2009 et certifiées par la Direction de l'intendance générale et charges
centralisées (Ministère du Budget) ont été payées.

La réalisation des indicateurs des résultats au niveau de chaque composante prouve à
suffisance la réalisation de l'objectif de développement du projet.

Par ailleurs, l'exécution satisfaisante et rapide du PUAICF avait permis à l'UCoP de recevoir
de la Banque mondiale le diplôme « award » lors de la revue du portefeuille de la Banque
mondiale en RDC organisé en juin 2010, en reconnaissance à ses performances en matière de
gestion des projets.

7.3. Décaissements
7.3.1 Les importation des marchandises et produits clés
Au départ, les ressources du PUAICF au titre de la composante 1 se chiffraient à USD 58
millions, avec un maximum de 40%, soit 23,2 millions de financement rétroactif. La
différence, soit 34,8 millions devrait financer les importations courantes. Suite aux
conclusions du rapport d'audit technique des composantes 1 et 2, la composante importation
des produits clés a bénéficié d'une réallocation de USD 11,7 millions. Ainsi, l'allocation pour
cette composante est passée de USD 58 millions à USD 69,7 millions.

7.3.2. Salaires des enseignants des écoles primaires et secondaires.
Les ressources du PUAICF au titre de la composante 2 se chiffraient à USD 16 millions et
concernaient exclusivement le financement rétroactif des salaires des enseignants pour le mois
de novembre 2008. La première tranche demandée par l'UCOP était de USD 10,799 millions
qui représentaient 70% des ressources de la composante. Le reste, soit 30%, devrait être
décaissé après l'audit technique de la composante 2. Au regard des résultats de l'audit, un
montant total de USD 4,55 millions a été déclaré non éligible et devrait être remboursé par le
Gouvernement. Par la suite, les 30% du solde à décaisser sur la catégorie ne pouvaient plus
être remboursés. D'où la réallocation vers la composante 1 de USD 11,7 millions composés de
USD 4,55 millions du montant remboursé par le Gouvernement qui a été remis au projet et du
solde à décaisser (30%) sur la composante 2.



                                                31
C'est pourquoi le décaissement sur cette catégorie est passé de USD 10,799 millions à USD
6,248 millions.

7.3.3. Eau, Electricité des Instances officielles et gestion du projet.
En assurant la prise en charge des factures d'eau et d'électricité des Instances officielles,
l'objectif de cette composante est d'éviter que la crise n'aggrave la situation financière de la
REGIDESO et de la SNEL et conduise à la détérioration des services en compromettant les
efforts de redressement de ces sociétés.
Les montants remboursés au trésor en faveur de ces sociétés se présentent de la manière
suivante :
                                      Factures 1ER        Factures 2ème Cumul au 31
                                          trimestre           trimestre       aout 2010
 EAU, ELECT DES IO ET
 GEST PROJ
 Factures REGIDESO                   3 200 182,09 8 344 074,45           11 544 256,54
 Factures SNEL                       5 852 181        6 011 159,32       11 863 340,32
 Audit Composante 1 et 2                                                     383 775,00
 Gestion du projet                                                           495 618,67
 TOTAL                                                                   24 286 990,53


Il importe de signaler que la par de la gestion du projet est de USD 879 393,67 soit USD
383 775 pour les audits techniques des composante 1 et 2 et la gestion proprement dit pour
USD 495 618.

7.4. Missions de supervision de la Banque mondiale
Pendant toute la durée d'exécution du projet, la Banque mondiale avait joué un rôle crucial au
travers ses missions de supervision programmées sur une base trimestrielle. En effet, la
Banque mondiale était toujours à coté de l'UCoP pour faire un état de lieu de l'exécution du
projet par composante. L'état de lieu de la mie en oeuvre était régulièrement assorti de
recommandations et d'un plan d'actions à mettre en oeuvre pour accélérer l'exécution du
projet, en identifiant clairement les responsabilités des un et des autres

7.5. Supervision en gestion financière
Au moment de la préparation du projet, les deux parties avaient convenu que le projet devait
être supervisé selon une approche basée sur le risque. A cet effet, la supervision devait se
concentrer sur le système de gestion financière pour vérifier si celui-ci continue à bien
fonctionner, et apporter un soutien le cas échéant. Face au risque substantiel évalué au
moment de la préparation du projet, ce dernier devrait être supervisé sur une base trimestrielle
et les transactions devraient être vérifiées au cours de chaque mission de supervision. Par
ailleurs, l'équipe de la Banque mondiale basée à Kinshasa et travaillant sur la gestion
financière pouvait assister l'UCoP en cas de besoin.

Le Ministre des Finances, en sa qualité de Président du comité de pilotage, s'était investi
personnellement pour rembourser à la Banque mondiale 4,5 millions US au titre de dépenses
inéligibles de la composante 2 tel que relevées dans le rapport d'audit. Ce paiement a ouvert



                                               32
   la voie à la réallocation et la prorogation de l'Accord de don du projet. La conjugaison de tous
   ces facteurs a ainsi permis de garantir une bonne exécution du PUAICF.

   8. Evaluation de la performance des différentes parties prenantes au projet
   Les parties prenantes au projet d'urgence d'atténuation des impacts de la crise financière
   comprennent essentiellement l'agence d'exécution du projet (l'UCoP), la Banque mondiale, la
   Banque Centrale du Congo, le CTR, la Direction Générale des Douanes et Accises (DGDA),
   le Service de Contrôle de la Paie des Enseignants(SECOPE), la REGIDESO et la SNEL.

i) L'agence d'exécution ( l'UCoP)
   L'UCoP a joué un rôle crucial dans la mise en oeuvre du PUAICF au travers la qualité élevée
   de son management et son expérience incontestable en gestion des projets financés par la
   Banque mondiale. L'expertise avérée dans la gestion des projets ainsi que sa connaissance
   approfondie des principes et règles de gestion des fonds de l'IDA constituent à la fois un
   atout et un capital considérable qui ont permis à l'UCoP de mettre en oeuvre de façon urgente
   le projet, d'organiser en un temps record le règlement du montant qualifié d'inéligible et pré
   positionner dans les délais une DRF de 5,1 millions d'USD qui était en attente de paiement.

   Bien avant le PUAICF, l'UCoP a gère le projet d'urgence de soutien au processus de
   réunification économique et sociale (PUSPRES) pour un montant de 214 millions USD, le
   projet d'urgence pour la réhabilitation urbaine et sociale (PURUS) pour un montant de 220
   millions USD et le projet d'urgence d'appui à l'amélioration des conditions de vies de la
   population ( PUAACV) pour un montant de 82 millions USD.

   ii) La Banque Mondiale
   Au travers ses différentes missions de supervision, la Banque Mondiale était toujours à côté de
   l'UCoP pour lui apporter des conseils coulés en recommandations pertinentes pour accélérer
   et garantir une bonne exécution du projet. En plus des recommandations, la Banque Mondiale
   a accordé une sincère et franche collaboration à l'UCoP pendant toute la durée d'exécution du
   projet. Il sied de rappeler qu'au moment de la préparation du projet, la Banque Mondiale a
   attiré l'attention des experts congolais sur la nécessité de ne retenir que des conditions faciles
   à réaliser, afin de ne pas retarder l'entrée en vigueur du projet. Par ailleurs, la Banque
   Mondiale s'est révélée très prompte dans l'octroi des avis de non objection pour des cas qui
   l'exigeaient dans le cas du PUAICF.

   L'IDA avait reversé dans le circuit du projet le montant de 4,5 millions USD que le
   Gouvernement avait remboursé à la Banque Mondiale au titre de dépenses inéligibles de la
   composante éducation du projet. Ce montant a été décaissé sur composante importations.

   iii) La Banque Centrale du Congo
   La Banque centrale du Congo, bénéficiaire des devises pour conforter sa position de change, a
   joué le rôle de facilitation au près des banques commerciales pour la collecte des pièces
   justificatives des importations. En effet, l'une des missions des Assistants recrutés par le
   projet était de collecter les pièces justificatives de la première composante dans les banques
   commerciales. Conformément à la réglementation de change en vigueur en RDC, la
   transmission des informations sur les importations par les banques commerciales requiert une
   requête formelle de la Banque centrale du Congo. Le travail de collecte des pièces




                                                   33
justificatives a ainsi bénéficié de l'accompagnement administratif et technique de la Banque
centrale du Congo.

iv) Le Comité Technique des Reformes (CTR)
Organe technique de suivi des réformes du Ministère des Finances, le CTR est chargé aussi
du suivi de la mise en oeuvre des accords de financements conclus entre les institutions
financières internationales et le Gouvernement de la République Démocratique du Congo. Au
vu de ses prérogatives, le CTR a joué un rôle important au moment de la préparation et la mise
en oeuvre du PUAICF.

A la préparation du projet, le CTR a conduit la délégation congolaise qui a participé aux
discussions techniques et aux négociations de l'Accord de don du PUAICF.
Par ailleurs, le CTR a été très actifs pendant la mise en oeuvre du projet en prenant part
active aux différentes missions de supervision du projet et en assurant le relais entre l'UCoP,
agence d'exécution du projet et le Cabinet du Ministre des Finances.
Au sein du comité de pilotage du projet, le CTR a joué le rôle de secrétariat technique pendant
toute la durée d'exécution du PUAICF.

v) La Direction Générale des Douanes et Accises (l'ancien OFIDA)
La Direction Générale des Douanes et Accises (l'ancien OFIDA) a servi de point focal pour
l'étude qui avait été menée en 2008 par le Consultant recruté par la Banque Mondiale, en vue
d'évaluer la fiabilité des pratiques commerciales en matière d'importations en vigueur en
RDC. A cet effet, la DGDA avait fournit au Consultant une base des données qui avait servi
de cadre de réflexion de l'étude.

vi) Le Service de contrôle et de la paie des enseignants (SECOPE)
Le SECOPE, organe technique du Ministère de l'enseignement primaire, secondaire et
professionnel, a fourni des informations sur la masse salariale des enseignants des écoles
primaire et secondaire publiquement administrées. Ces informations ont servi de base de
discussions de la composante éducation de l'Accord de don du PUAICF. Dans la phase de
l'audit de cette composante, le SECOPE a offert sa collaboration en déployant ses membres
dans les équipes qui étaient descendus sur terrain pour la collecte des listings acquittés de la
paie des enseignants.

vii) La REGIDESO et la SNEL
Ces deux entreprises du portefeuille de l'Etat ont mis en oeuvre le plan d'actions repris en
annexe des arrêtés interministériels signés dans le cadre du PUAICF. C'est dans ce cadre
qu'elles se sont déployées dans la pose des compteurs à Kinshasa et en provinces, en vu
d'abolir le système de facturation forfaitaire au profit d'une facturation axée sur les
consommations réelles des instances officielles et ayant droits.

En plus d'une participation active de ces entreprises aux discussions techniques et aux
négociations, la SNEL et la REGIDESO ont participé aux différentes missions de supervision
et ont accordé leur collaboration aux missions de l'auditeur interne de l'UCoP chargé
d'évaluer l'impact du PUAICF sur leurs trésoreries respectives.

9. Leçons tirées
Les arrangements pris par l'UCoP avec les bénéficiaires au travers les accords de partenariat
ont permis la célérité dans le traitement des dossiers. Grâce à la qualité du management de


                                               34
    l'UCoP, le Gouvernement lui a confié la gestion d'un programme similaire, financé par la
    Banque Africaine de Développement, dénommé Programme d'Urgence d'Atténuation des
    Impacts de la Crise Financière Internationale (PUAICF/BAD). Pour les mêmes raisons, la
    gestion du fonds fudiciaires Belge lui a été également confiée.

    En termes de flux de trésorerie, un montant de 100 millions de dollars américains
    représentant l'intégralité du don a été décaissé en dix huit mois seulement grâce à une bonne
    appropriation du projet par la partie congolaise et un accompagnement technique de la Banque
    mondiale sous forme de supervision. Au vu des indicateurs des résultats repris dans le rapport
    d'évaluation du projet, il ressort clairement que l'objectif de développement du projet a été
    atteint.

10. Conclusions et recommandations
    Le projet d'urgence d'atténuation des impacts de la crise financière internationale devra servir
    de référence dans la préparation et la mise en oeuvre des projets à venir, en vu de donner une
    nouvelle image du Gouvernement congolais et accroître la capacité d'absorption du pays.
    Dans le contexte actuel où les bailleurs des fonds tablent de plus en plus sur les allocations
    fondées sur les performances, une meilleure exécution des projets dans les délais convenus
    permettra au Gouvernement congolais de bénéficier de ressources substantielles pour sa
    reconstruction et son développement.

     Annex 7.2 Borrower's comments on draft Bank ICR.

         From:         KIMWAMBA Lundu <kimwambal@yahoo.fr>
         To:           Chalondawa Tobie <chalondawatobie@gmail.com>, ceghoff@worldbank.org
         Date:         02/22/2011 01:46 PM
         Subject:      Re: PUAICV - Rapport d'achèvement de la Banque pour commentaires


     Mr Christian,

     Bonjour,

     Nous venons de parcourir l'ensemble du rapport d'achèvement du PUAICF/IDA.
     Nous n'avons pas des commentaires à y mettre de notre part sauf que nous apportons quelques
     amendements ci-après :

     - Paragraphe 39 : date rétroactive au-delà de six mois avant la date de signature au lieu de "date
     rétroactive au-delà d'un an avant la date d'entrée en vigueur",

     -     Paragraphe 48 : La BAD a accordé USD 100,95 millions au lieu d'USD 97 millions

     - Paragraphe 53 : Le projet a remboursé au Gouvernement les montants qu'il a payés à la SNEL
     et à la REGIDESO au lieu de "Toutefois, comme le Projet a payé les factures de l'État
     directement aux entreprises de services publics"

     Salutations distinguées,

     Pour le Coordonnateur en mission,

     Jean Marie KIMWAMBA
     Directeur des Opérations/UCOP


                                                      35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments received by email from the IMF (Robert York, IMF Mission Chief for Congo)
are included below.


 From:           "York, Robert Christopher" <RYORK@imf.org>
 To:             "Marie-Nelly, Marie Francoise" <Mmarienelly@worldbank.org>
 Date:           02/18/2011 07:47 PM
 Subject:        RE: PUAICF ICR - proposing to share draft ICR with the IMF for comments

MF,
I don't have any profound comments and agree with the analysis and your
assessment.
I was not part of this process from the Fund side, but it seems to show very
clearly how the Bank staff can move quickly on an operation, with great affect.
You moving forward with a new DPO with the same speed in 2011 would be
appreciated.
Thank you,
Robert

From: Mmarienelly@worldbank.org [mailto:Mmarienelly@worldbank.org]
Sent: Wednesday, February 16, 2011 5:26 PM
To: York, Robert Christopher
Subject: Fw: PUAICF ICR - proposing to share draft ICR with the IMF for comments

Dear Robert,

Please find attached the Implementation Completion Report for the emergency operation we did for DRC
in 2009. We would be happy if you could join us for this meting as we worked very closely on this
operation. Best regards, MF




                                                 36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


      Project Paper
      Financing Agreement
      Minutes of Negotiation
      Project aide-mémoires
      Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)
      Technical audit of component 1
      Technical audit of component 2
      Report on the impact of financing of the state's water and electricity bills
      (component 3 impact study)
      Government ICR
      Project Restructuring Paper
   




                                       37
                              10°E                                                                                     15°E                                                                                                                                                     25°E                                                                  30°E
                                                                                                                                                         CENT RA L A FRICA N REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                          SUDAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
               5°N                                                                                                                                                                       Ubang                                      To                Bangasso                                                                                                                                        5°N
                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                              i                                   Kembe
                                                                                                                                                                Bangui                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                             Zongo           Gbadolite                                                                      BAS-UELE                                                                                Juba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bondo                                                                       Faradje
                                                                                                                                                                                                   NORD-UBANGI                                                             Uele
                                                                                                                                                                               Libenge
                                                                                                                                                                                         Gemena                 Businga                                                                                                        HAUT-UELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Titule                                                      Kiba
                                                                               DEM. REP.                                                                                                                                                                                Buta                                            Isiro             Watsa          li
                                                                               OF CONGO                                                                                       SUD-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Aketi                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                              Imese          UBANGI               Akula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lisala                                                                                                                                                     Pakwach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bumba                                              ORIENTALE                            Wamba
                                                                                                                                                                                                       MONGALA                                        Co                                                                            Mongbwalu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bunia            UGAN DA




                                                                                                                                                               angui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                imi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Aruw                                           ITURI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Banalia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o
                                                                                                                                                                                       nga                                                                                                                                                                            Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bongandanga
                                                                                                                                                                                   Lulo




                                                                                                                                                              Ou b




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mts
                                                                                                                                                                                           Basankusu                                                                    TSHOPO                 Bafwasende                                                             Albert
                                                                                                                                                                                    EQUATEUR                                                                 Yangambi                                                                        Beni




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ba
                                                                                                                                                                         É Q U AT E U R                                                                          Kisangani                                                             Butembo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Margherita Peak




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tum
               0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Wanie Rakula                                                  (5,110 m)                                       0°
                                                                                                                                                                        Mbandaka                                 Boende




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mi
                                                                                                                         C ON G O                                                                                                Tshu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a     pa                                                                              NORD                       Lake
                                                    G AB ON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Edward                     Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L om
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lubutu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lua
                                                                                                                                                                 Bikoro                                 TS H U APAL                                                         mi                                              KIVU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ikela




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           lab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      om                                                                               NORD-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Victoria




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ila                                   ela




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lu
                                                                                                                                                                                                    u
                                                                                                                                                                                                    u
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ka                                                                       Lowa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ul                   KIVU Goma                   To Ruhengeri
                                                                                                                                                                         Inongo                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lake Kivu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Congo
                                                                                                                                                Yumbi                                                              Betamba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                          MAI-NDOMBE                                                                                                                                     Kalima                Bukavu        Kibuye                   RWANDA
                                                                                                                                                               Kutu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kindu    SUD
                                                                                                                                                                                   Buna                                                                                                    KIVU
                                                                                                  KINSHASA                                    Bandundu                                                     Lukenie                                  Lodja
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Uvira                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                             Kasa                                                                                                  MANIEMA      SUD-
                                                                                            KI N S HA S A CI TY
                                                                                               NS            TY                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SANKURU                                Kama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bujumbura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BURUNDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              uru
                                                                                                                                                              BANDUNDU                    Mangai                         Sank                                                      MANIEMA      KIVU
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ilebo
                                                                                                                                    KINSHASA                    Bulungu                                                                                     KASAI                      Malela
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lusambo                                      Kasongo
                                                                                                                                                     Kenge              KWILU
                                                                                                                                                                        KW                            K AS AÏ
                                                                                                                                                                                                           A                                                                                                                  Lulimba
               5°S
                                      CABINDA                                               BAS-CONGO                                                                                                                                                       ORIENTAL                                                                                                                                   5°S
                                                                                                                                                                      Kikwit              Idiofa
                                     (ANGOLA)                   To                        KO N GO C EN T R A L
                                                                                             NG O CEN
                                                                                                                    Mbanza-Ngungu
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Luebo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L OM AM I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A MI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kongolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TAN ZAN I A
                                                              Pointe-          Boma                                                                                                             KASAI    Kananga                                                                                                         ga
                                                                                                                                                                                K
                                                                                                                                                                                Kw
                                                                                                                                                                                K




                                                              Noire                                                                                                                                                   Mbuji-                                                                                        Luku          Kalemie                Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                               KASAÏ- Mayi
                                                                                                                                                                                                               KASAÏ-
                                                                                                                                                                                   ilu




                     ATLANTIC                                                               Matadi                                                            Feshi                           OCCIDENTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                     u
                                                                                                                                                                                     u




                                                                                                                              To                                                                                                                                          Kabinda                                Kabalo                                  Tanganyika
                      OCEAN                                                                                                 Damba
                                                                                                                                                                                              Tshikapa           Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s   ai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ORIENTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TANGANYIKA
                                                                                                                                                    Kw
                                                                                                                                                    K
                                                                                                                                                    K




                                                                                                                                                          KWANGO                                                                  LULUA
                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                      ang
                                                                                                                                                      a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Moba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mwene-Ditu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Manono




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   am
                                                                                                                                                          o
                                                                                                                                                          o
                                                                                                                                                          o




                                       DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lom
                                          OF CONGO                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KATANGA                                      Luv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H A U T- L O M A M I
                      EMERGENCY RESPONSE                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kapanga                                                            s.         Pweto




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kamina




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lueo
                          TO MITIGATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lulua Lu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ba
                                                                                                                                                         ANGOLA                                                                                                                                              L                             Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a Lulu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a Lu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kilwa
                     FINANCIAL CRISIS IMPACT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mweru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ufff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      itu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ira
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sandoa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lubudi                         HAUT-                                                                              10°S
                                                          PROVINCE CAPITALS*                                                                                                                                                                           LUALABA                                                    KATANGA
                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kolwezi                                          To

                                                          RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                0        100           200        300        400 Kilometers                                Dilolo                                                            Likasi                     Luwingu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ZAMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To                                                                                                                                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lu
                                                          MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                        la
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lucano                                                           ba                                                                                           Malawi
                                                          RAILROADS                                                                             0               100                   200 Miles                                                                                                                         Lubumbashi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M A L AW
                                                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES**
JANUARY 2009




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 36727
                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
               *The creation of 26 new Provinces was approved by the ratification of the 2005 Constitution, to take effect by February,
               2009. The existing 11 Province Capitals, shown with green circles, will retain their status, with the exception of Bandundu.
                                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                    ZA MB I A                                 To           Sakania
                                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                          Kitwe
               Future Province Capitals are shown with white circles.
                                                                                                                                                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
               **The existing 11 Province boundaries and names are shown in dark green; future in light green.                                                                                                                                                                  25°E                                                                  30°E
