RETURN TO    FILE COPS
REPORTS DESK
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
DZJWENT GF INTE NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. PTR-116c
COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF
A SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
July 19, 1973
Latin America and the Caribbean
Projects Department
I s report was prepared for official ux only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responnbflity for the
accuracy or cm$etems of the report.p



Currency Equivalents
National currency is the Colombian Peso (Col Pes)
divided into 100 centavos
US$1.00      =     Col Pes 22.5
US$49.75     =     Col Pes 1 000
(May 19735
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations
CNR          -     Colombian National Railways
MOP          -     Ministry of Public Works
NPD          -     National Planning Department (Planeaci6n
Nacional)



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................i - iii
1.    INTRODUCTION ........          ............................     1
2.    BACKGROUND ........          ..............................     2
A.    Transport Sector .          ..........................     2
B.    Transport Coordination ..............                     5
3.    THE RAILWAY SYSTEM ......          ........................     6
A.   Organization, Management and Staff .... .....              6
B.   Railway Property ...........................               7
C.    Productivity, Traffic and Operations .......    8
D.   Uneconomic Lines and Stations ....            ..........   9
E.    Budget, Accounting and Audit ....            ...........    9
4.   THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT ........................   10
A.    Traffic Forecasts ..........................   10
B.   The Four-Year Investment Plan, 1973-1976 ...    11
C.    The Project ................................   12
D.   The Proposed Loan ..........................   13
E.    Execution, Procurement and Disbursement  ...    14
P.    Financing of the Project ......           .............   14
5.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..........         ...................   15
A.   General ....................................    15
B.   Economic Benefits of the Plan .....            .........   16
C.    Evaluation of Various Components of
the Project ..............................   17
6.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION ..         ..........................    18
A.    Background ..... ............................    18
B.    Present Position .  ..........................    19
C.    Future Prospects  .........        ..................   21
7.   AGREEMFNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...........   24
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. Karman and Buratti (Engineers),
Marco and Mates (Economists), Nanjundiah (Financial Analyst), and Diaz del Rio
and Aza (Management Consultants), and has been edited by Miss Foster.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
TABLES
1. Colombian Transport Sector
2.  Freight Movements in Major Colombian Ports - Imports
3. Freight Movements in Major Colombian Ports - Exports
4. Vehicle Road Economic Operating Costs
5. Railway Cost of Freight and Passenger Services
6. Long-Term Relationship between Freight Traffic, Investment
Expenditures and Real GDP
7. CNR's Salary and Control Structure by Department in 1972
8. Selected Operating Statistics, 1965-1972
9. Motive Power and Rolling Stock, 1972
10. Program for Reduction of Services, Personnel and Number of Stations
on Uneconomic Lines
11. Freight Traffic 1968-1972 and 1977 Forecast
12. Passenger Traffic 1968-1972 and 1977 Forecast
13. The 1973-1976 Investment Plan
14. The 1973-1974 Project
15. Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan
16. Revenue, Expenses and Net Income: Actual 1966-1972; Estimated 1973-1977
17. Summary Balance Sheets: Actual 1967-1972; Estimated 1973-1976
18. Cash Flow Forecast, 1973-1976
ANNEXES
1. CNR's Program of Action, 1973-1976
2. Terms of Reference for Management Consultants
3. Track Rehabilitation Program
4. Economic Evaluation
5. Main Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7. Principal Assumptions - Financial Forecasts
MAPS
1. Colombian National Railroads - IBRD 3667R
2. Colombian Transportation Sector - IBRD 3704(R)I



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the physical, economic and fi-
nancial rehabilitation of the Colombian National Railways (CNR), for which a
Bank loan of US$25.0 million equivalent is proposed. Transport is a dynamic
and essential sector in the Colombian economy. As in most countries, roads
have taken a larger share of traffic in recent years, but railways continue
to play an important role, carrying 14% of total freight traffic (excluding
pipelines) and over 40% of total foreign trade, most of it bulk cododities
over long hauls.
ii.       The Bank's association with the railways in Colombia began in 1951,
and the first three railway loans (68-Co, 119-CO and 267-CO) helped finance
the construction and equipment of the Atlantic line, which has become the
backbone of the railway system and shows good operating results. At the same
time, the railways were integrated into a single coherent entity. Two subse-
quent loans in 1963 and 1968 (343-CO and 551-CO) contributed to the rehabilita-
tion of track and rolling stock of the system, while improving management
practices. Performance under the last two loans, however, has been below
expectation: implementation of work was frequently slow and financial results
have sometimes been disappointing. Derailments increased significantly up to
1970 as a result of delayed rehabilitation, inadequate maintenance, unexpected
winter damages to the track, and poor operations. The situation improved in
1971 and again in 1972, although CNR has not yet become financially self-support-
ing.
iii.      After five loans to the Colombian National Railways between
1952 and 1968, for a net total of US$88.7 million, the wisdom of further Bank
lending to CNR has been seriously examined, and this report makes a positive
recommendation. The reduced importance of the railways in the transport
sector, the failure in achieving financial targets and, moreover, the poor
quality of the railway services were major considerations confronting the
appraisal team when CNR submitted, and requested financial support for, a very
ambitious investment plan.  After a protracted analysis, the conclusion con-
tained in this report is that CNR continues to have an important economic role
and that-a minimum investment plan is justified to defeat the cycle of0-
deteriorated infrastructure, derailments, poor service and loss of traffic.
In formulating this project, which includes physical investments and numerous
measures in a Program of Action to improve the services and technical assist-
ance, the recommendations of the Operations Evaluation Report have been of
considerable help. This is, however, a project that will require a continuous
effort in supervision to increase the probability of achieving the operational
and financial targets proposed.



- ii -
iv.       There is a clear economic role for the major lines of CNR, in parti-
cular the Atlantic line and its connection to Medellin. However, in certain
areas, the existing railway network or service no longer corresponds to the
present needs in view of recent road developments. The original Investment
Plan proposed by CNR was reviewed in this context, and the complete renewal
of several lines as envisaged could not be supported by the Bank. Important
issues, such as the size of the track renewal program and other project items,
have been discussed extensively with CNR and the Government and agreed upon.
For example, six uneconomic lines generate avoidable losses roughly estimated
at about US$1 million per year. The Government has now recognized that
action is needed, and CNR has prepared and started implementing an acceptable
outline of actions to close two lines completely and to reduce services pro-
gressively and close stations on the other four lines, all in accordance with
a specific timetable. During the preparation of this project, CNR has also
set up a much needed railway planning office, has begun a marketing effort to
attract additional traffic from major ports, and has started to prepare and
implement a program of action directed at achieving equilibrium between
operating revenues and expenditures by 1977.
v.        The proposed project is aimed at increasing rehabilitation of CNR's
main lines while improving operating conditions on the most important sections
where traffic is increasing. It consists of the first two years of a four-
year 1973-1976 Investment Plan and Program of Action and is estimated to cost
about US$44.2 million equivalent. The main investment items in the project
include improvements to permanent way (53%), plus motive power, rolling stock,
and consulting services. The 1970/71 winter was the worst experienced in 35
years, causing severe flood damage and landslides, and rehabilitation of rail-
way property accounts for 5% of investments in the project. Total foreign
exchange costs amount to US$32.2 million equivalent and are to be financed by
the proposed loan of US$25.0 million and suppliers' credits.
vi.       The proposed loan would help finance the procurement of track and
bridge materials, maintenance equipment, 50 ballast cars, parts for the reha-
bilitation of freight cars and telecommunications. All procurement would be
made following international competitive bidding except for about US$1.5 mil-
lion worth of subassemblies for existing diesel locomotives, which would be
procured from the original supplier. Local firms are not likely to secure
more than about US$2.0 million equivalent of orders, of which about US$0.6
million equivalent would be eligible for a 15% preference. No preference is
envisaged for the supply of timber sleepers, estimated to cost about US$1.4
million equivalent. Part of the loan would also be used for continued tech-
nical assistance provided to the railways by consultants who started working
during the last Bank loan (551-CO) and for direct assistance to the higher
management of the railways, under a contract now being negotiated and to be
finalized before the proposed loan becomes effective.
vii.      The main economic benefits of the four-year Investment Plan will
be obtained by avoiding diversion of railway traffic to road and by reducing
operating costs. The economic return of the Investment Plan is estimated at
12%.



- iii -
viii.     CNR achieved operating surpluses (excluding interest) in 1966 and
in 1969, but this position was reversed in 1970. Poor track and operating
conditions and a high rate of accidents, aggravated by severe winter damages
and the competitive situation, have rendered it difficult for CNR to offset
rising prices and increased staff costs by appropriate tariff adjustments.
CNR's financial situation is serious, and the unsatisfactory cash position
has resulted in CNR delaying payments to suppliers, deferring debt service
payments and resorting to short term borrowings at high rates of interest.
The increase in the petroleum dollar exchange rate and progress in ongoing
track rehabilitation allowed some tariff increases to be made in the latter
half of 1971 and in 1972. Following some improvement in operations, CNR
made further tariff increases in 1973. Recent traffic trends have been promis-
ing. To offset inflationary cost increases and improve CNR's finances, a
freight tariff increase of 12.5% in current terms in January 1974, 1975, 1976
and 1977 would be required; CNR has agreed that, in view of planned service
improvements, such increases could be made. Even with such adjustments and
control over the staff strength, CNR is not likely to achieve an operating
ratio below 100 before 1977 and would need the assistance of Government to
cover the local currency costs of the Investment Plan, debt service and working
capital requirements. Government has committed the funds needed by CNR: a
special "Project Fund" has been constituted.
ix.       There is a need for a long-term strategy for the development of the
whole transport sector. A multi-modal and comprehensive transport study of
the Magdalena River area, which started this year under terms of reference
drafted by the Bank, will be important for the coordination of investment and
pricing decisions. Financing for the study is secured from the Netherlands.
x.        The Bank will closely supervise the execution of the project.  Steps
are being taken in Colombia and in the Bank to reduce and control the risks
involved in the project. Namely, unexpected delays in procurement are not
likely to recur, since barter arrangements are not contemplated, as in the past
when complementary goods were procured in this manner. Consultants' action
is showing results, and further improvements are expected from the continued
technical assistance in the areas of operations and management. Derailments
have been almost completely eliminated in the sections recently rehabilitated,
and more track rehabilitation is planned during the project. Other measures
specified in the Program of Action are expected to help in achieving the
anticipated economic benefits and financial equilibrium by 1977.
xi.       The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$25.0
million for a term of 25 years, including a grace period of about four years.






COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Colombia and the Colombian National Railways
(CNR) have asked the Bank for a loan of US$25.0 million equivalent to finance
part of the foreign exchange cost of CNR's investments during the first and
second years of its Four-Year Plan 1973-1976. These investments are estimated
at US$44.2 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$32.2
million equivalent.
1.02      In the early 1950s, the railroad system in Colombia was composed of
various disjointed segments, owned by the National Railroads, Departmental
Railroads and private companies. Some sections were meter-gauge, others were
yard-gauge (914 mm).  They were grouped into two major networks, the western
system linking Puerto Berrio to Buenaventura and the eastern system radiating
from Bogota to Puerto Salgar, Barbosa, Belencito and Neiva.  A small line
linked Santa Marta to Fundacion and was used for banana traffic (Map 1).
With three loans (68-CO, 119-CO and 267-CO), made between 1952 and 1960 and
totalling US$46.3 million, the Bank helped finance the construction and equip-
ment of what is now known as the Atlantic line, linking Puerto Salgar to Puerto
Berrio (connecting the eastern and the western systems) and extending north to
Fundacion, thereby linking the Atlantic and Pacific coasts together and to
Bogota. The Atlantic line began operation in August 1961, and CNR was fully
integrated in 1963 when the Antioquia division (A. Lopez-Medellin-Puerto Berrio)
was finally incorporated into the system. The last two loans (343-CO and
551-CO), US$30 million in 1963 and US$12.4 million 1/ in 1968, made an im-
portant contribution to dieselization and modernization of CNR. Performance
on these projects has been below expectations, since implementation was often
slower than anticipated. All procurement under the last loan has now been
received (the loan is fully disbursed) and the technical assistance, also
financed by the Bank, is an important factor in CNR's present recovery.
1.03      The Operations Evaluation Report on Colombia has been considered
in preparing the proposed project. The report points out that the Atlantic
Railroad shows a lower return than expected because of cost overruns and
delays in construction. On the other hand, the report emphasizes "the At-
lantic Railroad's important impact on the development of the region, already
during the construction period: important increases in agricultural produc-
tion (mainly rice, corn and cattle), were significant from the viewpoint of
the foodstuffs supply at the national level" and "the remarkable increase in
cotton production, which the Atlantic Railroad also helped promote." The
report concludes that, in view of the large sunk investment, the railway's
potential for traffic should now be used efficiently. Concerning the evalu-
ation of previous Bank-supported rehabilitation programs, the report concludes
1/   The original amount of loan 551-CO was US$18.3 million, but about US$5.9
million was cancelled in 1970 after a barter arrangement with Poland for
the procurement of rails.



-2-
that "they were probably well conceived but their implementation and execu-
tion were inadequate. A different supervision system (by the Bank) in which
economic and operational problems are better taken into account, should have
been able to spot these problems." More frequent supervision missions will
be required if the rehabilitation program now proposed is to be implemented
successfully.
1.04      Under the present Plan, repairs of extensive winter damages will be
carried out, together with limited track rehabilitation on major sections of
CNR's network, and track maintenance equipment, motive power and telecommunica-
tions equipment will be procured. Continued technical assistance is required
as well as measures to improve operations, including closure of uneconomic
lines and stations and reduction of uneconomic services. This is summarized
in CNR's Program of Action (Annex 1).
1.05      This appraisal is based on information supplied by the Colombian
Government and CNR and on the findings of two Bank missions in May-June and
October 1971 comprising Messrs. Karman (engineer), Marco (economist) and
Nanjundiah (financial analyst), followed by an updating mission in November-
December 1972, in which Mr. Mates (economist), Buratti (engineer), Diaz del
Rio and Aza (management consultants) also participated. This report has been
prepared by them and has been edited by Miss Foster.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   Transport Sector
(i) General
2.01      The Colombian transportation network developed in an unintegrated
manner, especially in the north-south corridor where the Atlantic section of
railways, highways, pipelines and the Magdalena River compete for relatively
low volumes of traffic (Map 2). In general, transport coordination has been
ineffective, and transport investments and operations have not been adequately
planned. In particular, operational efficiency has not kept pace with traffic
needs, mainly due to poor road maintenance, severe winters, delayed track
maintenance and poor management of port operations.
2.02      Inland communications in Colombia were historically developed to
connect Bogota and Medellin with the Northern Atlantic ports, through the
Magdalena River, and Cali with the Pacific port of Buenaventura. In the
last 20 years, this program was completed by building direct railway and
highway links to the Atlantic coast and by improving connections in the high
central valleys between Bogota, Medellin and Cali. With the trunk system
of highway and railway lines largely completed, the task still remains of
providing adequate transport to scattered population areas and integrating
thew into the market economy.



2.03      The Government's 1971-1974 Development Plan has given increased
emphasis to social and agricultural investments, but the transport sector
will still be the largest receiver of funds, with about 30% of public in-
vestments through 1974. A national long term strategy will be needed for
the development of the transport sector and for a better coordination of
transport investments and operations (paras. 2.10-2.11). A detailed analysis
of recent economic developments and prospects is given in the 1973 Economic
Report on Colombia 1/.
(ii) Operations in the Sector
2.04      Total freight traffic, including pipelines, has grown in the past
at 4.6% p.a., and a similar rate of traffic growth is also expected through
1975 (Table 1). The present intermodal distribution of traffic is not
expected to change significantly in the short run. Based on Colombian sources,
the Bank's freight traffic forecasts for 1975 are as follows, compared with
1970 actuals:
Highways  Rail-          Coastal
(approx.) ways   River  Shipping  Airways  Pipelines  Total
1970, billion ton-km   4.24   1.17    1.33    0.79         0.08       4.23    11.84
X            35.8    9.9    11.2       6.7        0.7      35.7    100.0
1975, billion ton-km   5.52   1.37    1.63    1.02         0.12       5.18    14.84
X            37.2    9.2    11.0       6.9       0.8       34.9    100.0
2.05      Ports handled about 1.8 million tons of imports and 0.9 million
tons of exports in 1971 (Tables 2 and 3).  There are now more port facilities
than economically justified, due mainly to inefficient handling and operations.
A study of improvements in cargo-handling, which was a condition of the sixth
highway loan (680-CO), has been started. Railways, which depend on ports for
about half of their tonnage, now have improved facilities in Buenaventura as
part of the agreement contained in the last loan to CNR. The Magdalena River
transport study (para. 2.11) will review the feasibility of railway access
to Cartagena and Barranquilla. In the meantime, CNR, assisted by its consultants
(SOFRERAIL), has prepared a short term action plan to secure more long haul
bulk traffic to and from these ports by means of truck/railway transshipments
(para. 4.01).
1/   IBRD, "Economic Position and Prospects of Colombia," 1973, 138-CO.



-4-
2.06      Trucks carry mostly general cargo and handle much foreign trade via
Barranquilla and Cartagena, where there is no rail access, and Buenaventura.
In general, there are indications that road users (mainly trucks) are subsidized;
road construction expenditures are not fully covered by additional receipts
in the form of duties and other taxes levied on road users. The average truck
size is small: about 97% of the truck fleet is gasoline powered, and only 7%
of trucks can carry more than 10 tons (in particular, the average load of
trucks operating in foreign trade in Buenaventura is less than 3.5 tons).
Retail price of gasoline in Colombia is still the second lowest in the world,
even after the doubling of the petroleum exchange rate and the 45% increase
in gasoline retail price which took place in June 1971. This increase com-
pensated for the inflationary cost increases which have occurred since 1966,
when the retail price of gasoline was last raised.
(iii) The Role of the Railways
2.07      The railways' role in the transport sector has decreased in the
recent past, partly because of poor service and partly because of highway
improvements. However, for long hauls and moving of bulk commodities, there
is a clear economic role for the railways, especially for the Atlantic line
and its connection to Medellin. This role could be enhanced by improving
the quality of service. Grains imported through Santa Marta provide the
main source of railway traffic, followed by coffee export through Buenaventura,
fertilizers and steel. This traffic in itself represents over half of the
total railway freight traffic and is carried over hauls between 470 and 740
km. Tables 2 and 3 show the large volumes of traffic handled by the railways
in foreign trade.
2.08      A comparison of road and rail costs (details given in Tables 4 and
5) shows that, for freight that can be handled in carloads (14 tons and more),
transport by rail is less expensive than road transport. Truck transport is
cheaper for small loads, but these loads constitute only 4% of total rail
transport. The comparison also shows that the cost of moving passengers is
lower by road than by rail. In line with this, no further purchase of equip-
ment for railway passenger transport is now contemplated, and some passenger
services which are unduly expensive will be curtailed.
2.09      The future of certain sections of the railway network is doubtful.
This is reflected in CNR's plan, agreed on with the Bank, to close two
railway lines and to reduce operations significantly on four more lines (para.
3.13). The justification for continuing service on these lines, which are
facing (or are soon to face) keen road competition, will depend largely on
the ability of CNR's management to improve operations and to adopt an
aggressive commercial policy; the Bank plans to review the economic viabil-
ity of these lines continuously.



-5-
B.   Transport Coordination
2.10      The Ministry of Public Works (MOP) is responsible for the construc-
tion and maintenance of national roads, which are financed through the National
Highway Fund. It is also responsible for the National Feeder Road Fund, to
which local Government bodies and road users also contribute. Railways and
ports are the responsibility of autonomous agencies within the Ministry, while
airports are under a separate authority, and river transport is private.
Legislation, dating as far back as 1966, to coordinate the various transport
entities with the MOP has been ineffective. The National Planning Department
(NPD), which is in charge of budget allocations at sector level, is now screen-
ing the projects subject to foreign financial support. The intermodal alloca-
tion of public investments follows a traditional budgetary pattern and may
not respond to the traffic tendencies and economic needs (Table 6). The Plan-
ning Office within MOP acts as a highway investment agency rather than a plan-
ning group for the transport sector. Also, there is some overlap in function
between INTRA (Instituto Nacional de Transporte) and the Planning Office in
MOP, probably due to the higher caliber personnel in INTRA, which is not
subject to civil service regulations in recruiting. Ideally, the Planning
Office of MOP should be strengthened and charged with evaluating all transporta-
tion projects and allocating resources among modes within the transport sector.
Agreement was reached with the Government during negotiations to centralize
in MOP all of its transport planning activities and to transfer the Colombian
counterparts who will be working on the Rio Magdalena study to the MOP Planning
Office once the study is terminated.
2.11      The transport system in the Magdalena River area is particularly
complex and constitutes a test case for Government's transport coordination.
Navigation on the river represented about 13% of total freight traffic in 1971,
in competition with a parallel pipeline not fully utilized; nevertheless, plans
had been advanced for infrastructure investments in the river. A part of the
paving program planned by MOP through 1974 is for the completion of ongoing
projects between Fundacion and Bucaramanga. As a result, the railway trunk
line in the Magdalena Valley, which is the financial backbone of the railway
system, will face increased competition in the corridor. Recently, the Govern-
ment engaged consultants to conduct a comprehensive study (to be completed early
in 1974) of user charges, operations, traffic and required investments
inclusive of, but not limited to, possible railway extension to Cartagena and
Barranquilla. Terms of reference for the study have been prepared with the
assistance of Bank staff, while financing for the study is provided by the
Netherlands Government. During negotiations, it was agreed that the Bank will
be given an opportunity to comment on the conclusions and recommendations of
the study, and that the recommendations will be implemented in accordance
with a schedule to be agreed upon with the Bank.
2.12      Transport data in Colombia are abundant, but the information is
not centralized. The Bank has agreed recently to include Colombia in the
program sponsored by the Bank and ECLA (Economic Commission for Latin America)
for improvement in the collection of transport data; this will facilitate
efficient transport planning and coordination. This information base will
be maintained in the MOP Planning Office.



-6-
3. THE RAILWAY SYSTEM
A.   Organization, Management and Staff
3.01      The Colombian National Railways is an autonomous Government entity
headed by a five-member Board of Directors with the Minister of Public Works,
ex-officio, as Chairman. The other members are appointed by the President of
Colombia from a list submitted by private interests representing trade, in-
dustry, banking and agriculture. The General Manager is also appointed by
the President. The Board controls the railways' operating and financial
policies, including adjusting of rates and fares. However, building or
abandonment of railway lines and changes in personnel service conditions
rest with Government. The railways are organized into five divisions:
Pacifico (Cali), Antioquia (Medellin), Central (Bogota), Santander (Buca-
ramanga) and Atlantico (Santa Marta). Until recently, each division was
headed by a Divisional Manager, except the Central Division, in which the
various department heads shared the burden of day-to-day operations. This
has now been corrected, and a qualified manager was recently appointed for
the Central Division.
3.02      The improvement of CNR's management remains the central issue of
the project. In the Bank's opinion, CNR has many good and dedicated people
in its ranks, but they suffer, basically, from a severe lack of motivation.
This problem received much attention during project preparation. Both CNR
and the Government have now recognized the need for strengthening CNR's
management. Some steps, such as the creation of a Planning Office, have
already been taken at the Bank's suggestion and under terms of reference
prepared by the Bank. Before negotiations, CNR agreed to strengthen its
Planning Office with qualified personnel. As a first task, the Planning
Office provided the General Manager with a Program of Action for 1973 on a
divisional basis. The Program sets targets for revenues, expenditures and
reduction of derailments for each Division. The General Manager controls
the execution of the Program in monthly meetings with the Divisional Managers.
3.03      Management at the intermediate level, which is of crucial importance
for daily operations of the railways, is weak, since engineers and experienced
technicians can easily find better-paid positions in the private sector. CNR
is now selecting management consultants acceptable to the Bank in order to
help improve these and other aspects of the railways' management in accordance
with terms of reference proposed by the Bank (Annex 2). During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the timely implementation of the expected recommenda-
tions of the manaaement consultants. SiRning of the contract between CNR and
the consultants is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. Foreign
costs for this assistance are included in the proposed loan.
3.04      In 1968, CNR agreed that technical assistance was needed in the
fields of track (maintenance and renewals), workshops and operations. Con-
sultants (SOFRERAIL, France) were selected and financed under the last loan.



- 7 -
They started working in 1968 with two teams: track and workshops. In early
1971, after continued insistence by the Bank, CNR appointed a third SOFRERAIL
team for operations. Immediate improvement was not to be expected, but the
action of the consultants is now showing practical results. More track re-
habilitation is being done each year (para. 4.04) and the quality of the work
has improved. Workshops have been organized and time for overhauls has been
reduced, thereby increasing the availability of locomotives and rolling stock.
Operations in general have been reviewed and block trains have been introduced
on the main Atlantic line. Continued technical assistance is, however, con-
sidered essential, at least during the coming two years, and its foreign
exchange cost is included in the proposed loan.
3.05      Total staff of CNR decreased from about 15,000 in 1963 to an ade-
quate 11,400 in 1972. Staff in operations decreased almost 20% over the last
five years, in spite of an increasing traffic. Total staff is expected to
decrease further in 1974 when modern track maintenance equipment is put into
service. The structure of salaries and responsibilities in the Engineering
and Commercial Departments is somewhat distorted, due to lack of interesting
openings for middle management and excess of unskilled labor at the bottom
of the salary scale (Table 7). About 95% of the labor force is in the lowest
salary bracket (basic wages equal to 1/10 of wages in the highest salary
bracket). Low salaries are partly compensated by overtime remuneration, which
is about 15% of basic wages. CNR's management is attempting to improve the
general quality of the staff by extensive training and continued technical
assistance (paras. 3.04 and 4.09).
3.06      About 90% of railway workers are unionized in two large workers'
unions; the relations with management are good. Labor disputes are solved
through management-union committees, and no serious conflicts have arisen
for the past seven years.
B.  Railway Property
3.07      Total length of CNR's network is 3,436 route-km, all single track
and very narrow gauge, 914 mm as against 1,435 mm in Europe and North Amer-
ica. Some sections in mountainous areas have gradients of 3% and more.
About one-third of the track is laid in 75 lb rail, less than 15 years old,
but another third is in 60 lb rail, and the remainder is laid with 55 and
50 lb rail, most of it about 50 years old. All track renewal is now made
with 75 and 60 lb rail, which is adequate for the 16-ton maximum axle load
presently used. Sleepers are of local wood, which has been treated only in
the past few years, and have a relatively short life in tropical areas.
Crushed stone ballast has been introduced recently, but most of the network
has only uncrushed river stone, or no ballast at all.
3.08      The general condition of the track, except on the Atlantic line, is
poor. Delayed maintenance, combined with difficult terrain and soil condi-
tions, and severe seasonal rainfall have caused an alarming increase in de-
railments (Table 8). This situation already existed in 1968 at the time of



- 8 -
the last Bank-financed project, which was largely intended to help improve it.
Its implementation has been very slow, mainly because rails and accessories
supplied from Poland under a barter deal arrived about two years later than
expected. After about one year of service, the rail wear is comparable to
that of 15 years of service on other rails; the Polish rails must now be with-
drawn from curves and used only on straight track. Switches were to be in-
cluded in the Poland deal, but, after long discussions, had to be procured
from France and the USA; however, the US firm ceased operations after the
order was placed and new tenders had to be issued, so that the switches were
available only in late 1972. Procurement of ties on the local market was
very difficult until 1970, because CNR did not pay the suppliers on de-
livery. Of the six track maintenance machines to be procured, three were so
badly damaged during sea travel that they had to be returned to the manufac-
turer in Europe for repair; they were received only in mid-1972.  Ballast
crushers, purchased with Bank financing from a reputable manufacturer, gave
constant trouble until they were finally adapted to local conditions by the
maker. Dumping of earth and rocks in the Cauca and Dagua rivers, during con-
struction of parallel highways, resulted in floods over the lower railway
track, interrupting traffic for several months during 1971. A huge landslide
south of Medellin caused a railway viaduct to collapse and interrupted
traffic from October 1970 to January 1973. The need to give priority of
finance and manpower to correcting accident damage has resulted in a further
deferring of maintenance. Less maintenance has meant that the railroad has
been less efficient and less able to carry traffic than it might have been,
thereby earning less revenue. This has led, in turn, to a further skimping
of maintenance.
3.09      Derailments are concentrated in certain areas, as shown in Annex 3.
It can be seen, however, that they have been sharply reduced on the sections
recently rehabilitated; this confirms the fact that poor track was the main
cause. The increase of derailments on the Cali-Buenaventura section is due
to the abnormally short life of inadequate timber sleepers. Action is being
taken to intensify track rehabilitation together with measures to improve
rolling stock safety and operations control.
3.10      Motive power and rolling stock at the end of 1972 are shown in Table
9. Steam traction was completely phased out in early 1973. About 28 more
diesel locomotives will replace older types and allow an increase in total
motive power, in line with the traffic requirements. Freight cars and pas-
senger coaches are adequate for the foreseeable traffic up to 1976, with the
exception of ballast cars (50 of which are included in the proposed loan).
Spare parts, mainly roller bearings and bogie castings, are needed.
C. Productivity, Traffic and Operations
3.11      The availability of locomotives and freight cars has been steadily
increasing over the past few years and is now acceptable at 85% and 84% re-
spectively. A further increase is expected as a result of the completion of
the new workshops at Facatativa, with modern equipment replacing older ma-
chine tools and new methods being introduced by CNR's consultants.



-9-
3.12      Other operating statistics are summarized in Table 8, which shows
an increase of 45% in the average net load per freight car between 1965 and
1972, due to the replacement of older stock by heavier cars. There is room
for substantial improvement in turnaround time of loaded wagons (12.7 days),
average net load per train (268 tons), and locomotive utilization (186 km per
day). CNR, with the help of SOFRERAIL, is setting up and implementing a plan
for improvement of scheduling of trains, train composition, cargo handling in
terminals, and yard switching. CNR has also prepared, as part of the Program
of Action, a time-phased plan of operation improvements coordinated with action
to be taken on closure of uneconomic lines (para. 3.13) and reduction of un-
economic passenger - and other - services. This plan was discussed, and
agreement on its implementation was reached during negotiations.
D.  Uneconomic Lines and Stations
3.13      One of the most crucial issues in determining the future role of
the Colombian Railways is its size. The unit operating costs on different
lines vary to a large extent depending on traffic density; on some low density
lines, the costs are extremely high (Annex 4, Chart 1). CNR has suggested
a program for redimensioning the system, which will reduce operating costs
on 662 km of low density lines by about Col Pes 14 million (US$0.62 million)
annually. This program (already started and detailed in Table 10) specifies
total closure of two lines (Pereira-Armenia and Pereira-Manizales), totalling
117 km, and significant reductions in services and closure of stations on four
other lines (Cartago-Pereira, Cali-Popayan, La Caro-Barbosa and Espinal-Neiva).
In addition, no extensive maintenance or rehabilitation will be carried out
on those lines which remain open. This program is generally acceptable and
was finally agreed upon during negotiations; provisions concerning its imple-
mentation are included in the proposed loan agreement.
3.14      The redimensioning of the system is a continuous program that should
be adjusted in the future to reflect changes in traffic patterns on all lines
and any change in the social objectives of the Government. During supervision
of the project, special attention will be given to changes in traffic and cost
patterns on various lines so that further line closure or reduction of services
could possibly be implemented during the second part of the 1973-1976 Investment
Plan.
E.   Budget. Accounting and Audit
3.15      CNR prepares annual operating and investment budgets which are in-
cluded as a separate annex to the national budget; their form and content
need improvement and CNR has agreed to effect some changes suggested by the
Bank. The operating budgets are within the competence of CNR. The budget
of investment is examined by the Planning Office of the Ministry of Public
Works and the National Planning Department. The amount of Government sup-
port is then decided and included in the general Government budget. This
amount is made available monthly (on a pro rata basis) to CNR. The balance
of the requirements for investment is met from borrowings from external and
internal sources (para. 6.15), since CNR is not currently able to generate
its own resources for this purpose.



- 10 -
3.16      CNR's accounting system is structurally sound and is generally
patterned after that prescribed for private commercial railroads in the USA.
Monthly audited accounts are published within 30 days. Operating statis-
tics and financial iecords are processed mechanically. Fixed assets re-
cords enable CNR to charge depreciation on a realistic basis.
3.17      The previous practice of capitalizing interest on suppliers' credits
in- some cases was discussed with CNR and is now discontinued.  CNR has also
agreed to maintain from 1973 a separate head of account for special and an-
usual expenditure, such as repair of extensive winter damages which are now
merged in operational expenditure.
3.18      Inventory control is deficient.  In June 1971, CNR had inventories
valued at about Col Pes 11 million not drawn for use for over five years,
Action in regard to disposal of obsolete items has been inadequate and slow.
CNR has engaged a firm of Colombian consultants (IDEAS Ltd.) for reviewing
inventory management and control procedures and suggesting steps to be taken.
The firm started work in 1971, recommended some measures for inventory
management and is assisting CNR in their implementation.
3.19      CNR's accounts are examined by the "Auditor General", who is re-
sponsible to the Controller General of the Repubic. Audit procedures are
generally satisfactory, an! contribute little or no delay to the production
of periodic accounts, but are extremely detailed and tend to duplicate the
internal check performed by CNR. The question of simplifying the audit
and reducing the cost thereof (presently Col Pes 4.5 million per annum) was
discussed during negotiations. It was agreed that this matter would have to
be separately pursued further with the Government, since this is a general
issue affecting other Government undertakings as well as legislative matters.
4. THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   Traffic Forecasts
(i) Freight Traffic
4.01      CNR has been adjusting freight tariffs as necessary to cover long-
run marginal costs; selective increases took place in every year since 1968.
CNR has prepared, as part of the Program of Action, a time-phased commercial
plan through 1976, ensuring that each freight tariff will continue to cover,
as a minimum, the long-run marginal costs of providing the service, and con-
centrating marketing efforts on (a) major lines (the Atlantic line carries
about half of total freight traffic); (b) major commodity groups (13 com-
modities generate 80 of the revenues); and (c) major customers (50 customers
provide two-thirds of the revenues). Efforts are also being made to secure
traffic to and from Cartagena and Barranquilla by means of a road/rail com-
binati-n administered by CNR. On this basis, the Bank has prepared freight



- 11 -
traffic forecasts by major commodities through 1977 (Table 11). Account has
been taken of past experiences in traffic projections which proved to be
either too optimistic or reversed by severe winter damages as in 1970, and
of potential traffic losses on lines not to be rehabilitated or facing keen
competition from highways paved or in the process of being paved. Traffic
elasticity to GDP and tariff level have also been tested (Table 6). Total
traffic for 1977 is projected at about 3.3 million tons (1,485 million ton-km)
compared to 2.7 million tons (1,200 million ton-km) in 1972. This yields a
traffic growth of 4.4% p.a. between 1972 and 1977, equal to the actual growth
between 1965 and 1972 under very difficult conditions. Major traffic increases
are foreseen in agricultural products, fertilizers, steel and, in general,
long distance trade traffic between Santa Marta, Medellin and Bogota. On
other sections, mainly Cali-Buenaventura and branch lines, traffic has been
assumed constant or slightly decreasing, in spite of service improvements,
in view of growing paving programs and truck competition.
(ii) Passenger Traffic
4.02      On average, passenger service has been barely covering avoidable
costs, and there is a cross-subsidization from first class and "autoferros"
to other traffic. Total number of passengers decreased from 6.5 million in
1965 to 3.0 million in 1970 (Table 12), as a result of new paved roads link-
ing the main cities, reliable and subsidized bus operations, and often defi-
cient radlway service, lately aggravated by delays and derailments. Shortly
after the introduction of new petroleum exchange rates in mid-1971, total
rail pass-km increased substantially over that of 1970. This trend continued
in 1972 and total traffic for this year reached 4.3 million passengers. This
large increase is due partly to large tariff increases on buses and partly to
better service and introduction of fast trains and better train schedules.
CNR raised its passenger fares selectively on long distance trains from
October 1972. However, to make this service sufficiently profitable
to justify renewal of passenger rolling stock, further substantial tariff
increases will be needed. Thus, it was decided to observe the passenger
traffic trend in the future before commiting new investments, and the traffic
forecast for 1977 assumes a slightly lower traffic level than in 1972, fol-
lowing proposed tariff adjustments (para. 6.12).
B.   The Four-Year Investment Plan, 1973-1976
4.03      In order to break out of the self-defeating cycle of shortcomings
described in paragraph 3.08, a series of actions is needed, including concen-
tration of investments on the most important sections of the railways, clo-
sure or service reduction on low traffic density lines, technological changes
intended to reduce derailments and track maintenance costs, in particular
welded rails and concrete sleepers (provided mechanized maintenance equipment
is available), better maintenance of rolling stock and more discipline in train
operations. CNR has therefore prepared a Four-Year Investment Plan 1973-1976
which provides for capital investment of Col Pea 2.1 billion (US$94.0 million
equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of US$60.4 million (Table 13).
The original Investment Plan prepared by CNR was more ambitious and has been
amended with the help of the Bank. Some investments have been reduced or



- 12 -
postponed. In its present form, it has been approved by the Government, and
will be accompanied by a series of measures intended to improve the general
efficiency of CNR: these measures and the objectives to be pursued are dis-
cussed in various sections of this report and are summarized in the Program
of Action (Annex 1). To avoid possible excess investments, the last part of
the Plan (1975 and 1976) should be reviewed and agreed upon by CNR and the
Bank in mid-1974 in the light of revised traffic forecasts and in accordance
with the implementation of the Program of Action. This was agreed during
negotiations.
4.04      Several factors indicate that shortcomings in the implementation of
past projects can be avoided. Delays in procurement are not likely to occur,
since barter arrangements are not contemplated. Technical assistance is a key
feature as it was in the last loan, and consultants (SOFRERAIL) are now in the
field. Their action is beginning to show results and it is reasonable to expect
further improvements in the near future, especially concerning track mainte-
nance and train operations. Derailments have been reduced significantly on
the sections recently rehabilitated (para. 3.09 and Annex 3), and it is planned
to rehabilitate 364 km more of track during the project period. This is a re-
alistic figure compared with 118 km done in 1969, 185 km in 1970, and 225 km
in 1971. (Due to lack of funds, only about 60 km were rehabilitated in 1972.)
Management improvement (Dara. 3.03) and closer Bank supervision (para. 4.09)
will be important means of achieving these targets.
4.05      The main item in the Plan is track rehabilitation, including renewal
of 434 km of track and laying of concrete sleepers on a total of 576 km of
track. Total investment related to permanent way, including switches, track
maintenance equipment, bridges, and ballast cars, accounts for 52% of the Plan.
Other important items are diesel locomotives (9%), telecommunications (10%),
and consulting services (5%). Winter damages have been so great that they
surpass normal maintenance and are, therefore, included in the Investment
Plan. They account for about 2.5% of the Plan.
4.06      The cost estimates have been based on current 1973 prices.  Physical
contingencies have been estimated at 1 to 2%, because CNR's budget is expressed
more in monetary than in physical terms and because civil works (which would
normally require higher physical contingencies) represent only a very small
portion of the investments. Price contingencies were based on separate es-
timates for foreign and domestic costs, respectively 6.5% and 14% per year.
No contingencies have been allowed for the locomotives (the contract is signed
at fixed prices) and for track materials in stock, mainly rails procured under
the Polish barter arrangement. Total contingencies over the 1973-1976 period
represent about 21% of the estimated cost of the Four-Year Plan.
C.   The Project
4.07      The Project consists of the first two years of CNR's Four-Year Invest-
ment Plan and of a Program of Action (Annex 1). It is a program aimed at improv-
ing the physical condition of important sections of the network, without any in-
vestment in uneconomic lines. As shown in Table 14 and summarized below, its



- 13 -
total cost is estimated at US$44.2 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$32.2 million.        Contingencies have been estimated as
explained in paragraph 4.06 preceding, and represent about 10X of the Project.
Proposed
Col Pes million         US$ million          Loan
Local  Foreign  Total Local  Foreign Total US$ million
1. Track materials           148.0   276.3   424.3  6.6    12.3   18.9    10.8
2. Maintenance equipment       -       43.3    43.3   -       1.9    1.9      1.9
3. Ballast cars                -       15.1    15.1   -       0.7    0.7      0.7
4. Diesel locomotives          -      160.5   160.5   -        7.1    7.1      -
5. Spares for locomotives      -       43.7    43.7   -        1.9    1.9     1.9
6. Spares for freight cars   14.8    28.7    43.5  0.6         1.3    1.9      1.3
7. Telecommunications          8.7    23.1    31.8  0.4       1.0    1.4      1.0
8. Consultants, training      14.3    34.2    48.5  0.6        1.5    2.1     1.5
9. Winter damages             20.2    23.0    43.2  0.9        1.0    1.9      1.0
10. Miscellaneous              24.1    29.7    53.8  1.1        1.4    2.5     1.4
230.1   677.6   907.7 10.2    30.1   40.3    21.5
Contingencies: physical    4.6       5.0     9.6  0.2      0.2    0.4      0.1
Contingencies: price       36.0    42.3    78.3  1.6       1.9    3.5      1.8
Total     270.7   724.9   995.6 12.0    32.2   44.2    23.4
Interest during construction                                               1.6
Amount of proposed loan                                                   25.0
The proposed loan covers only the part of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project not already financed by other sources (para. 4.13).
D.   The Proposed Loan
4.08      As shown in detail in Table 15, US$8.6 million would be for track
materials, mostly rails, fastenings, switches, and steel components for con-
crete sleepers, while US$1.3 million would be for infrastructure and bridges,
US$0.9 million for rail welding equipment, US$1.9 million for track main-
tenance equipment including ballast crushers, and US$0.7 million for 50 ballast
hopper cars.  These five items combined represent about 62% of the total and
reflect the emphasis given to the much needed improvement of CNR's permanent
way. Other items to be financed by the proposed loan are parts for rehabili-
tation of locomotives and freight cars (US$3.2 million), telecommunication
equipment (US$1.0 million), and consulting services (US$1.5 million). Due to
the tight financial situation of CNR, commitment charges and interest on the
Bank loan during the Project period (about US$1.6 million), have been included
in the proposed loan. A detailed description of the Bank-financed items is
given in Annex 5.



- 14 -
E.   Execution, Procurement and Disbursement
4.09      With the aid of consultants, CNR should be able to implement the
Project adequately. On the technical side, the SOFRERAIL teams are already
in the field. On the management side, consultants should start working soon
after the proposed loan is signed. Close Bank supervision would also help in
implementing the Project. Since the preparation of this loan took longer than
expected, the two-year Project is likely to run into 1975.
4.10      Procurement of timber sleepers has always been a problem:  quantity
and quality have often been inadequate, with disastrous consequences to track
condition. It is now proposed, therefore, to purchase the 570,000 sleepers
needed for the Project under international tendering, with strict specifications
and quality control. Since it is unlikely that foreign suppliers will
show interest, invitations to bid for sleepers would be advertised in Colombia
only, in order to save time and money. The cost estimates assume that sleepers
will be procured locally (through competitive bidding). This local procurement
will be financed with the proposed loan.
4.11      All other goods financed under the loan would be acquired through in-
ternational competitive bidding, except about US$1.4 million for locomotive sub-
assemblies, which would be procured from the original supplier. Colombian
firms are not likely to compete except for timber sleepers estimated at about
US$1.4 million and for minor items estimated at about US$0.6 million. Local
bidders (except timber sleeper suppliers) would be granted a margin of prefer-
ence by adding 15% or the applicable customs duties, whichever is lower, to the
CIF value of the foreign bids. If local bidders are successful, corresponding
procurement would be financed with the proposed loan. Colombia is a member of
the Latin American Free Trade Association (ALALC) and of the Andean Pact.
Preferential trade agreements under these treaties are, however, irrelevant in
the case of CNR, because it is exempted from duties on imported equipment.
4.12      Cost estimates are based on recent quotations obtained for similar
goods under international competitive bidding. If any savings result from
favorable prices in competitive bidding, the corresponding savings in the
loan account would be used to finance additional but similar Project items
subject to review and agreement with the Bank. For imported goods, disburse-
ments would be made on the basis of CIF costs. For goods procured locally,
disbursements would be made on the basis of total costs. Annex 6 shows an
estimate of disbursements assuming the proposed loan is approved in July
1973.
F.   Financing of the Project
4.13      The proposed Project would be financed as follows:



- 15 -
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign    Total         %
IBRD - Proposed loan (excluding
interest during construction)        -          23.4      23.4      52.9
Bilateral sources for
locomotives and spares               -           6.8       6.8      15.4
CNR (utilization of Polish
rails, etc.)                         -           1.6       1.6       3.6
Government                            12.0         0.4      12.4      28.1
12.0       32.2       44.2    100.0
Twenty-eight locomotives are to be obtained from the Spanish supplier of an
earlier lot of 60 locomotives purchased in 1968, under international competi-
tive bidding, at the same original price, except for escalation. The sup-
pliers' credit and related arrangements have already been completed. The
proposed loan would cover about 73% of the total foreign exchange component
of investment during the Project period.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The Colombian railways, which move more than 2.7 million tons per
year over hauls extending up to 900 km, are an essential part of the Colombian
economy.  Traffic moving in the trunk system connecting Santa Marta, Bogota,
Medellin, Cali and Buenaventura is mostly long haul and bulk, and is moved at
lower operating costs than by road. This trunk system has a clear economic
role; traffic on its lines increased at more than 4% p.a. between 1965 and
1972 at rates always covering long run marginal costs. On the other hand,
some branch lines have operating costs higher than those for existing parallel
roads; as a result of poor service and uncompetitive rates, a large part of
the traffic on those branch lines has been diverted to road, and service is
to be reduced further (para. 3.13).
5.02      For the purpose of economic analysis, total freight traffic has
been projected through 1977 by major commodity groups and main railway links,
subject to covering, at least, operating expenditures and to generating suf-
ficient revenue for the whole network to ensure financial equilibrium. In
cases where transport by road is more economic, it was assumed that the rail-
way traffic will be progressively diverted. Passenger traffic declined in
the past because of deficient service but recovered in 1971 and 1972 and is
expected to decrease following rate adjustments which will assure the covering
of marginal cost. The Project is therefore based on traffic for which CNR
assures the lowest economic transport cost and for which users are prepared
to pay.



- 16 -
5.03      During the Project period, major rehabilitation is contemplated on
five lines. The rehabilitation is aimed at assuring a safe traffic on the
lines, i.e., reducing the number of derailments, increasing operating speeds
and facilitating increased traffic. On most of these lines, rehabilitation is
a continuation of work which was started in former years. The lines to be
rehabilitated are: El Cruce-Bucaramanga, which feeds the Atlantico lines;
Zarzal-Armenia, which carries mainly coffee destined for export through
Buenaventura; Medellin-A. Lopez, which carries traffic mostly composed of
manufactures from Medellin exported through Buenaventura; Medellin-Grecia on
which traffic is mostly long haul to and from Bogota and Santa Marta; and La
Dorada-Buenos Aires, which provides an outlet for the agricultural production
of the Tolima region to Medellin.
B.   Economic Benefits of the Plan
5.04      Since 1969, when CNR last achieved an operating surplus, total costs
of railway service have increased sharply, due to a growing number of derail-
ments which damaged rolling stock, track and cargo; provoked traffic inter-
ruptions; and impaired the traffic growth of recent years. The 1973-1976 In-
vestment Plan and the Program of Action aim at preventing CNR from further
defaulting on its proper role in the Colombian economy.  The main objective
is to increase efficiency and quality of service and to reduce operating costs.
To this end, derailments and accidents must be curtailed, uneconomic services
reduced and operations concentrated on the most efficient sections of the net-
work. Finally, a strong commercial action is designed to improve and maintain
the public attitude toward the railways in order to make use of the existing
competitive advantage of the trunk railway system and to avoid a costly traffic
diversion to road.
5.05      For the economic analysis, the Investment Plan was broken up into
two parts: (a) investment pertaining to the Santa Marta-Bogota line (Annex
4, Table 1), and (b) investment for the whole system (as given in Table 13).
The Santa Marta-Bogota line (969 km) carries about 60% of total railway
traffic and its density is high (738,000 ton-km per km in 1972); its traffic
is long haul and the operating costs on the line are low (Col Pes 0.28 or
USJ 1.3 per ton-km). The investment required, even if only the Santa Marta-
Bogota trunk line will be maintained, amounts to 48% of the total Investment
Plan, and its benefits are mainly cost reduction and avoidance of traffic
diversion to roads (average road cost is about Col Pes 0.50 or USJ 2.2 per
ton-km). This investment yields a 13% economic rate of return (Annex 4,
Table 2). In the second stage, the alternative of going ahead with the com-
plete system (exclusive of lines to be closed as mentioned in paragraph 3.13)
was examined and compared to the alternative of maintaining only the Santa
Marta-Bogota line. The additional investment, which will prevent unjusti-
fied diversion of traffic to roads, yields an 11% economic rate of return
(Annex 4, Table 3). Thus, the weighted average rate of return on the In-
vestment Plan is 12%.



- 17 -
5.06      The economic rate of return is underestimated for the following
reasons:
(a) The better quality of service to traffic already moving on
the railways (i.e., increase in user surplus) was not quantified.
(b) It is likely that road carriers will be unable to absorb in
time all traffic diverted from the railways, and some temporary
loss of transport capacity will emerge; this loss also was not
quantified.
(c) Rail traffic has been assumed constant beyond 1977.
5.07      The sensitivity of the economic rate of return to changes in invest-
ment cost, railway operating cost and railway traffic growth was tested (Annex
4). The results show that the return is acceptable even under pessimistic
assumptions. A shadow foreign exchange rate was also tested, but the results
demonstrate that the return is not affected because the alternative road costs
have a fairly high foreign exchange component (about 30%).
C.   Evaluation of Various Components of the Project
General
5.08      Although the Investment Plan is justified as a whole, an attempt
was made, whenever possible, to determine whether some items in the Project
other than track rehabilitation could be substituted by other measures without
affecting the overall capacity of the railways. The items for which this
analysis was not done are those combinations for which benefits are joint (an
exclusion of one item will eliminate benefits of others as well).
Concrete Sleepers
5.09      The Project includes 253,000 concrete sleepers at a total cost of
Col Pes 76.5 million. These sleepers can be substituted by cheaper wooden
sleepers but with shorter life and higher maintenance cost. The economic
rate of return on the additional outlay is about 14.1%. This return does not
take into account the faster service made possible by the better sleepers.
Hard Rails
5.10      Hard rails, costing Col Pes 81.4 million, are to be used on curves
where rail is damaged most. Hard rails cost about 45% more than ordinary
rails, but their life in sharp curves is more than double. The rate of
return on this item is estimated at 16.5%.



- 18 -
Ballast Cars
5.11      Fifty ballast cars are to be purchased in the Project at a total cost
of Col Pes 15.1 million. Ballast can be transported in less expensive gondola
cars. However, this results in lesser quality of ballasting and requires addi-
tional labor. Taking account of the availability of gondola cars, an economic
rate of return of over 10% is reached even if the shadow price of labor is
measured at one-third of actual wages.
Locomotives
5.12      According to a contract signed with a Spanish manufacturer, 14 diesel
locomotives will be delivered in 1973 and 14 in 1974. The second delivery is
premature by about three years considering future needs for motive power
(Annex 4, Table 4), but the favorable price under the contract (US$255,000
each) justifies the early purchase of the locomotives, and the rate of return
on the early purchase after accounting for locomotive maintenance is at least
9%. Targets for improvement in locomotive usage were agreed upon with CNR
as part of the Program of Action. During negotiations, CNR also agreed to
consult the Bank regarding any future locomotive purchases before 1977.
Trucks and Trailers
5.13      This investme :t (Col Pes 26.1 million) is intended to provide CNR
with trucks and trailers for combined road/rail shipments. This refers to the
ports of Cartagena and Barraquilla where no direct rail connection is avail-
able, and to the road connection between Ibague and Armenia. Currently this
transport is performed by private companies, but difficulties are encountered
in getting trucks whenever necessary. The financial rate of return for CNR
is 24%, and this investment will not create over-capacity in the trucking
industry since it will affect less than 1% of total highway traffic.
Conclusion
5.14      The Investment Plan and the Project as presented in this report ex-
clude some investments which were requested by CNR, but whose viability could
not be demonstrated, such as passenger railcars, and some rehabilitation work.
As it now stands, the Investment Plan is justified, and no substitution of
individual items in the Project can be made without reducing the overall ex-
pected benefits.
6.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Background
6.01      CNR is an autonomous enterprise, with its finances separated from
those of Government, but it depends on Government and borrowings for its in-
vesemant needs. CNR had operating deficits for several years, but improvement
in freight traffic and the introduction of a new tariff in 1966 led to a small



- 19 -
operating surplus (after depreciation and before debt service). The railways
again had an operating deficit in 1967, brought about by rising staff costs
and increases in prices, coupled with a reduction in traffic and inability to
raise the tariffs to an adequate level in view of competitive conditions. CNR's
financial expectations had, however, improved at the time of sanction of Loan
551-CO and it was considered in the Bank that CNR could earn a financial rate
of return of 1% on net fixed assets in 1969, 3% by 1972 and 6% by 1976. These
objectives, incorporated in the loan documents, were considered "ambitious but
capable of realization," provided the momentum for change and improvement then
in evidence was maintained. They were not actually achieved, but CNR main-
tained a working ratio of less than 100% during 1968-1970.
B.   Present Position
(i) Actual Operating Results
6.02      The actual operating results for the years 1966-1972 are summarized
below (Table 16 gives the details):
(Million Col Pes)
1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972
Operating revenue               305.5  312.2  364.6  419.3  440.8  467.6 P508.7/1
Working expenses                266.6  316.3  344.8  363.6  438.9  493. 3,539.&-
Depreciation                     35.9   42.6   41.8   53.0   65.2   78.7   85.8
Operating expenses              302.5  358.9  386.6  416.6  504.1  572.0  625.6
Net operating revenue (loss)    3    (46.7) (22.0)   2.7  (63.3)(104.4)(116.9)
Other income                     13      16.0   11.9   31.3   20.4   10.2   25.4
Interest charges                 29     39.9   44.6   53.3   58.1   61.2   98.2
Net loss                         13    (70.6) (54.7) (19.3)(101.0)(155.4)(189.7)
Working ratio %                  87.3  101.3   94.6   86.7   99.6  105.5  106.1
Operating ratio %
Actual                       99.0  115    106      99.4  114.3  122.3  123.0
/1   Excludes winter damage repair.
6.03      Increases in freight ton-km and tariff adjustments enabled CNR to
improve its financial situation in 1968 and 1969, despite growing costs; CNR
had an operating surplus for the second time in four years. The position was
reversed in 1970, however, because of increased working expenses: (a) increases
in general price levels; (b) increased wage and social benefits and some in-
creases in the number of permanent way maintenance staff (on the recommenda-
tions of consultants SOFRERAIL); and (c) an accounting change, under which
some expenses relating to the Atlantic line, which had been previously charged
to "Investment", were now charged to working expenses, the construction and
the consolidation of the line having been completed. The unusually severe
winter damages of November/December 1970 also adversely affected CNR. Tariff
adjustments made in 1970, limited by competitive conditions and the quality of
service, were inadequate to cover the increases in costs, and the operating
results deteriorated considerably. The adverse conditions persisted in 1971,



- 20 -
with a high number of derailments, the winter damages not fully repaired and
increases in staff costs and in price levels not adequately compensated by
tariff adjustments. During 1972, CNR controlled its staff strength and reduced
derailments. There was a significant increase in passenger traffic and rev-
enues, but freight traffic growth was small, and staff and material cost rises
were barely covered by tariff adjustments.
6.04      Freight ton-km (which accounts for about 90% of CNR's operating
revenue) increased only slightly during 1968-1971, but grew 4% in 1972. Freight
tariffs were increased on a selective basis every year; however, these were
inadequate to cover the rise in staff costs and price levels. CNR controlled
the staff strength: in 1971, the staff was less than in 1967 and it was further
reduced in 1972. Fuel costs decreased during the period, with increased diesel-
ization. The depreciation charge rose with increased investments; the level
of depreciation charge is generally satisfactory.
(ii) Summary Balance Sheets
6.05      CNR's balance sheets for the last six years are shown in Table 17.
The balance sheets for the years 1968-1972 (since the last Loan 551-CO) may
be summarized as follows:
(Million Col Pes)
1968     1969      1970      1971    1972
Net working capital                          252       215       477      508      375
Miscellaneous and deferred assets             46        63        62        90     226
Net fixed assets                           2,068    2,555    2,909    3,125   3,211
TOTAL                               2 366    2,833       ,448    3 723   3,812
Long term loans                              890    1,165    1,500    1,673   1,961
Equity                                     1,346    1,505    1,587    1,613   1,668
Reserves for Social Security, etc.           130       163       361      437      183
TOTAL                                2,366    2,833    3,448    3,723   3,812
Ratios: Liquid assets/current)
Liabilities           )             1.5      1.2       0.96      0.78   0.77
Debt/equity                      40/60    44/56       49/51    51/49  54/46
6.06      CNR's financial position has been weak; it had a serious cash posi-
tion, especially during the last three years, with current operations yielding
insufficient cash to meet the needs. CNR has been delaying payments to sup-
pliers (the amount of suppliers' bills outstanding for over three months
has been over Col Pes 20 million), deferring debt service payments, reschedul-
ing some debts (e.g., with the Coffee Federation and Constructora de Carros
de Ferrocarril S. A. de Mexico) and resorting to short term borrowing from local
banks at high rates of interest (such borrowing amounted to about Col Pes 53
million on December 31, 1972). Until recently, Government assistance to CNR
has been only toward the local currency costs of the investment program and



- 21 -
debt service obligations of the first three Bank loans (68-C0, 119-CO and 267-CO).
CNR has been meeting its obligations under the last two Bank loans (343-CO and
551-C0), but this has been extremely difficult and often achieved by postpon-
ing payments to others. Government assistance toward winter damage repair
by CHR has been subject to protracted negotiations and has been provided
in small installments. Measures to improve the liquidity position are discussed
in paragraph 6.15 following.
6.07      The long term debt as of December 31, 1972 includes US$51.1 million
of Bank loans to CNR; it also reflects the purchase of locomotives and freight
cars under suppliers' credits, and of rails and accessories from Poland under
a coffee barter arrangement with the Coffee Federation of Colombia, which pro-
vided financing for CNR under a loan with repayment now spread over 15 years.
6.08      Of the gross fixed asset value, Col Pes 3,755 million as of
December 31, 1972, approximately 20%, represents nondepreciable assets
(mainly land, ties and ballast, including laying charges).
6.09      The Col Pes value of assets acquired with foreign loans is adjusted
periodically to reflect devaluation. However, a revaluation of assets is
necessary, and CNR has initiated action on this matter. During negotiations,
it was agreed that the revaluation of assets would be completed within six
months of the proposed loan agreement.
C.   Future Prospects
6.10      Much of the CNR network is underused; the competitive situation and
the quality of railway service limit CNR's ability to raise revenues. The
Project investments coupled with the Program of Action should enable CNR to
improve its operations and quality of service and, consequently, its traffic.
Even so, CNR would have to control its staff costs and also effect tariff
adjustments in order to improve its finances. CNR was able to reduce its
staff strength by about 2.5% during 1972; it intends to bring about a further
reduction in personnel. Following the change in the "petroleum dollar" ex-
change rate in mid-1971, which affects highway trucks to a greater extent than
the railways, and some progress in track rehabilitation, CNR was able to raise
the freight tariff on a selective basis in September 1971 and again in the
latter half of 1972. Following some improvements in operations, tariff in-
creases have also been made in 1973, including a general freight tariff in-
crease of 10% from June 1973. However, costs have been rising in accordance
with price level increases and increases in staff costs following agreements
with labor. A new agreement has now been concluded with labor, effective for
30 months from January 1973. Under this agreement, the increase in staff
remuneration levels would be about 12.2% in 1973, 11.8% in 1974 and 11% in 1975.
These increases have been taken into account in the financial forecasts. In
addition, it has been assumed that, during the years 1976 and 1977, there would
be an increase in staff remuneration levels by 2% in real terms (10% in current
terms). The principal assumptions on which the financial forecasts are based
are outlined in Annex 7.
6.11      The forecast income accounts are in Table 16 and are summarized
on the following page.



- 22 -
(Million Col Pes)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
I. Operating Revenue                 579.8    681.0  787.5   919.3   1,052
II. Operating Expenses                     /1
Working Expenses               621.0 - - 705.4  777.6   852.8      937.7
Depreciation                    93.0    104.0  113.0   118.0       120.0
Less Reduction of Losses with
respect to Uneconomic Lines      5.0       9.0   14.0    16.0       16.0
Total Operating Expenses         709.0    800.4  876.6   954.8   1,041.7
III. Net Operating Revenue (Loss)   (129.2)  (119.4) (89.1)  (35.5)         10.3
IV. Non-operating Revenue (Net)        19.0     19.0   15.0    10.0        10.0
V. Interest                           87.6     97.5  129.9   143.6       143.8
VI. Net Income (Loss)                (197.8)  (197.9)(204.0) (169.1)   (123.5)
Ratios:
Working %                         106.2    102.3   97.0    91.0       87.6
Operating %                      122.3    117.5  111.3   103.9        99.0
[I  Excludes winter damages repair.
6.12      The forecast income accounts take into consideration the projected
traffic growth, best estimates (paras. 4.01 and 4.02) and incorporate the effect
of tariff increases which are considered feasible and necessary. Table 16 shows
separately the additional freight revenue to be raised, over and above the
revenue expected at the present freight tariff rates. The freight tariff
increases thus incorporated are selective adjustments to yield increases (in
current terms) of average revenue per ton-km of 12.5% each from January 1974,
1975, 1976 and 1977. These tariff increases were discussed and agreed with
CNR. They would be revised as necessary in the light of traffic and changes
in price levels so that the specific operating ratio targets are achieved.
CNR has recently increased some passenger fares (especially diesel rail car).
These increases have been included in the forecasts. Additionally, passenger
tariff increases (in current terms) of 10% each from January 1974 and January
1976 have been included in the forecasts. The forecasts also incorporate the
reduction of losses on certain uneconomic lines (para. 3.13) that are, on the
basis of data now available, considered feasible and necessary; these are
shown separately in Table 16.
6.13      Tariff adjustments as proposed above imply that, in the competitive
situation prevailing in Colombia, the quality of railway service would improve
adequately. The trend in recent months has been favorable; both freight traffic
and passenger traffic have substantially increased in the first four months of
1973 compared with the corresponding period of 1972. Sustained attention to
operational improvements, commercial drive and determined efforts on the part
of management to control staff and other costs are essential in order that the
forecast improvement in the financial situation can be achieved. CNR's
financial needs are such that greater improvement than that forecast above is
desirable; however, with the prevailing limitations, the forecast financial
improvement is what can reasonably be expected. Specific financial and
operating ratio targets for each of the years 1973-1976 are incorporated in
the Program of Action (Annex 1).



- 23 -
6.14      The forecast operating results show that, even with the tariff
increases and other measures referred to, CNR would not be able, during
the next five years, to earn net revenues sufficient to cover interest
charges. The debt service coverage would vary from 0.1 in 1975 to 0.4 in
1977 because CNR's debt is substantial, and the ratio of debt service to
forecast gross operating revenues would vary from about 45% in 1973 to about
34% in 1977. Most of CNR's debt consists of foreign loans, and any further
Peso devaluation would increase the ratio. Under the circumstances, Govern-
ment has to arrange assistance to CNR to meet debt service obligations (in-
cluding increases due to any further Peso devaluation) as part of the total
arrangements for the physical and financial rehabilitation of CNR.
6.15      The question of provision of adequate funds to CNR to improve its
liquid position and to meet its financial requirements, including debt service
and investment needs, was discussed and agreed with CNR and the Government.
The arrangement covers, inter alia, a loan of US$20 million from a US commercial
bank to CNR, with the Government assuming the debt service.  This loan is to
be utilized by CNR mainly to meet its debt service payments during 1973, 1974
and 1975 with respect to external loans (and, in addition, to import some
operational spares). Another loan of Col Pes 85 million from local banks, with
the Government assuming the debt service obligations, will enable CNR to pay
outstanding short term bank loans and overdue suppliers' bills. In addition,
a special "Project Fund", with an initial deposit of Col Pes 45 million, has
been constituted by the Government in the Banco de la Republica to cover CNR's
requirements. A separate account of this fund will be maintained. It has
also been agreed that, during 1973, 1974 and 1975, monthly contributions will
be made so that the fund will be able to meet the expected financial require-
ments of CNR (not covered by other sources of financing) during the next
following three months. Government contribution to the "Project Fund" is
currently estimated at Col Pes 128 million during each of the years 1973, 1974
and 1975 (in addition to the amount of Col Pes 90 million already provided to
C2NR by the Government during 1973). Provision of further funds during 1975
and 1976 will be determined when the Investment Plan for 1975 and 1976 is
reviewed in mid-1974 (para. 4.03).
6.16      During the period 1973-1975, when project disbursements are expected
to occur, the position regarding sources and application of funds in accordance
with arrangements already made is expected to be as follows. (The cash flow
forecast for each of the years 1973 to 1976 is in Table 18.)



- 24 -
(million pesos)
Sources
Proposed IBRD                                     562.5
Suppliers' Credit for 28 locomotives, etc.        152.6
Commercial bank loan - US$20 million              450.0
Loan from local banks                              85.0
Utilization of rails, etc. in stock                36.0
Government - Debt service of 68-CO, 119-CO
and 267-CO                           245.5
- Funds already provided in
1973                                 90.0
- Project fund contribution            384.0
Total                     2,005.6
Application
Investments - Project                             995.7
- Other investments in 1975           128.1
Debt service -
Total                  903.6
Less met from inter-
nally generated       94.8                 808.8
Improvement in liquid assets                       73.0
2,005.6
Since the investment needs during 1975 are now expected to be more than the
amount of Col Pes 128 million referred to above, further arrangements would
be needed in 1975 (para. 6.15 preceding).
6.17      Summary tentative balance sheets for the years 1972-1976, based on
the availability of Government assistance to CNR, are given in Table 17.
The current ratio would be satisfactory and the liquid ratio would improve.
The debt equity ratio would go up to 61/39 in 1975 and decline to 59/41 in
1976. Most of the long-term debt would consist of foreign loans, including
those for which the Government meets the debt service obligations (such as
the US commercial bank loan referred to in paragraph 6.15 preceding); loan
repayments, when made by Government, will be added to equity.
6.18      In view of the financial situation of CNR, the question of debt
limitation was discussed with CNR during negotiations. It was agreed that
the Bank's approval would be obtained before incurring any debt, if the
net cash revenue of CNR for the fiscal year or the 12 consecutive months
immediately before the date of incurrence, whichever is greater, would be
less than 1.25 times the maximum debt service requirements of any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt of CNR, including the debt to be incurred.



- 25 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal matters:
(a)  with Government:
(i)  the functions of the planning unit within MOP and
incorporation of Colombian counterparts from the Rio
Magdalena study (para. 2.10);
(ii)  the opportunity for the Bank to comment on the conclusions
and recommendations of the study, and an agreement on its
timely implementation (para. 2.11);
(iii)  deposit, by the Government, of the initial contribution
to the "Project Fund" and provision of further amounts
to be deposited monthly for CNR (para. 6.15).
(b)  with CNR:
(1)  the timely implementation of the expected recommenda-
tions of the management consultants (para. 3.03);
(ii)  a time-phased plan of operation improvements
(para. 3.12);
(iii)  specific steps related to closure and rationalization
of uneconomic lines (para. 3.13);
(iv)  review in mid-1974 of the last two years of the 1973-1976
Investment Plan (para. 4.03);
(v)  consultation with the Bank before any further procurement
of locomotives is decided (para. 5.12);
(vi)  revaluation of assets (para. 6.09);
(vii)  debt limitation (para. 6.18).
7.02      Before the proposed loan is made effective, CNR will sign the con-
tract with the management consultants (para. 3.03).
7.03      The Project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$25.0
million for a term of 25 years, including a grace period of about four years.
July 19, 1973






COL.OMIA
SIXTH PAILWIAY PROJCT
Colombian Tr-,-sport Sector
Tot1l Freight T,affic Prjectians Exludirg Pipelins                                              GP                                            I nves t ment s   i    t h e    S ec t or
(in million tkm)                                                       (in millions)                                                       (in million Col Pea)
Railways          Highways            River         Caostal Shipment       Airways      Totel                                             Current Total                                    M a d a 1   i u r r e n t
7 Gross  MiMed      =Hih /. I7        Rsilways 9./       Shipping          A     Pve
Ye.r     ski k             tkm       %       tin       %        tkm      %         tim      %      tks      1968 Cal Pea Current Col Pea Cal Pee      GODP     Investment       ColL.VW   ColPjir                   Col Pii           Cal Pea
196o      768    20 0    1,900    50.0        776    20.0       311      9.0        45    1.0    3,833        65,739         26,717          -        -                            -         -       _       _          _         -       _          -
1961      769    17.0    2,560    54 0        835    18.0       o01    10.0         19    1.0   )l,713        69,n85         30,121          -        -
1962      918    18.0    2,6'9    52.o        872    17.0       626    12.0         51    1.0    5,149        72,P24         31,,199         -        -             _              _         _       -       _          _          _      _
1963      891    1?.0    2,931    55.0        919    17.0       490    10.0         67    1.0    5,301        75,217         IJ3,525         719     1.65         10.03           558        78      91    13           37         5      78         4
196h      952    i6.5    3,o60    53.0        950    16.5       717    13.0          /l    1.0    5,70        79,856,        53,760          075     1.55          9.60           61         71,    145    17           17         2      57         7
1965      890    15.0    3,210    55.o        887    15.0       791    14,0         14    1.0    5,812        92,730         60,7aF          Q3)1    1.59          9.E3           711        76     106    11           89       10       28         3
1966    1,113    17.0    3,383    52.0    1,125    17.0         837    13.0          71    1.0    6,532       87,161         73,612        1,063     l.44          R.614          760       "n       90      9         157       15       56        '5
1967      996    14.6    3,566    52.0    1,317    19.0         860    13.4         69    1.0    6,808        90,82h         83,525        1,501     1.89         10.19           R87        59     355    24          189       12       77        -5
1968    1,124    16.o    3,770    53.0    1,312    18.0         890    12.0          72    1.0    7,168       96,422         96,427        1,591     1.65          8,1,5        1,174        74     169    11          113         7     135         8
1969    1,158    16.0    3,985    55.0    1,311    18.0         736    10.0          75    1.0    7,269      102,555        110,759        2,059     1.86          7.78         1,295        63     166    23          170         8     128         6
1970    1,172    15.5    4,236    55.5    1,333    17.5         786   1i.5           80    1.0    7,607      110,953        128,217        2,431     1.90          7.93         1,556        64     125    17          1261/       5     324 4/    14
1971    1,150    14.5    4,497    56.7    1,359    17.1         843   1i.6           88    1.1    7,837      117,610        145,424        2,854      1.96          8.21         2,163        76    348    12           174 4!    6      169 W       6
1972    1,180    14i1    4,765    56.9    1,439    17.2         892    10.7          95    1.1    8,371      125,842        166,490        3,244      1.95          8.17         2,578 2/    79    364    U              82 4/    3      220 4/      7
1973    1,240    14.1    5,009    56.9-   1,497    17.0          940    10.7    -  ito    1.3    8,796       134,652        190,533        ?47c       1.82          8.50         2,858 2/   82    311        9           83 k/   3       219 k/      6
1974    1,305    14.1    5,285    57.1    1,564    16.9          985    10.7        110    1.2    9,2h9      144,o78        218,141        3,920      1.80          9.71         2,964 j/   76    636    16              85  /    2      235 J/    6
1975    1,370    14.2    5,518    57.1    1,632    16.9    1,9020        0.         iao    1.2    9.6o       154,163        249,926        3,898      1.56          p.28         3,f9 -  /   7?    573    15             85  /   2       310 j/      6
1/ Inoludes feeder roads; MOP figures thrumgh 1972, mission's estimates thereafter.
2/ IDclude an estimated Col Pee 300 million for feeder road.
3/ Includes rehabilitation and winter damages from 1970 on.
I/ From Table T-1, Tramsport Seator, Roameic Report WA-200a.
I/ Estimated by mission.
Sources,:  1960-1971, Ministry of Public Worki.                                                                                          #zraes,  Ministry of Public Works and Planning Office.
1972-1975, Mission Eatimates (GDP, frsm economic mission).
February 1973



COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Movements in Major Colombian Ports
Imports
(In Thousand Metric Tons)
Jan.-Nov.
Ports        1966     %    1967       %    1968     %    1969      %     1970    %     1971    %         1972        %
Buenaventura
Railway       245.5   38.4  185.4   46.4  238.6  48.6  202.4    37.5  248.2  35.7  242.1  34.5            228.6      36.0
Highway       394.5   61.6  214.1  53.6  252.1  51.4  336.8    62.5  447.2   64.3  460.5  65.5            407.0      64.0
Total       640.0  100.0  399.5  100.0  490.7  100.0  539.2   100.0  695.4  100.0  702.6  100.0         635.6     100.0
Santa Marta
Railway       272.9   89.2  182.2   84.4  255.4   87.4  306.7    89.4  365.8   90.5  384.1   92.5         321.8      93.9
Highway        33.0   10.8   33.5   15.6  36.7  12.6   36.3    10.6   3B.4    9.5   31.1    7.5            21.1       6.1
Total       305.9  100.0  215.7  100.0  292.1  100.0  343.0  100.0  404.2  100.0  415.2  100.0          342.9     100.0
January-June
1972
Barranquilla    317.2         236.9          218.0         257.0           303.1         311.8              281.1
Cartagena       147.4          83.1          100.0         110.0            93.0         135.0              117.7
Source: CNR
June 1973



COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Movements in Major Colombian Ports
Exports
(In Thousand Metric Tons)
January-June
Ports            1966    %   1967    %   1968    %    1969    %    1970    %             1971    %         1972         %
Buenaventura
Railway            257.3  64.0 346.3  68.4  375.3  63.3  297.2  53.8  286.2  56.8  237.0   43.3             246.7        41.4
Highway            144.4  36.0  159.7  31.6  217.5  36.7  255.4  46.2  217.5  43.2  310.6   56.7    3349.0               58.6
Total           4ol.7  100.0 506.o 100.0 592.8  100.0  552.6  100.0  503.7  100.0  547.6  100.0          595.7       100.0
Santa Marta
Railway            160.4  97.8  153.1  95.6  154.7  94.5  160.7  88.5  112.8  85.3  126.1   89.7            155.4        87.3
Highway              3.6   2.2   7.0   4.4   9.0   5.5   20.9  11.5   19.4  14.7  14.5   10.3                22.6        12.7
Total           164.0 100.0 160.1  100.0 163.7  100.0  181.6  100.0  132.2  100.0  14o.6  100.0          178.0       100,0
Barranquilla          32.7          54.0         65.3           95.5          106.6          90.7             160.4
Cartagena             54.9         48.4          60.9           75.9           92.3          68.3              87.3
Source: CNR
June 1973



COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Road Economic Operating Costs
(In Col Pes/100 Km)
Small Trucks              Medium Trucks                Large Trucks                    Buses
Capacity 3.5 ton           Capacity 7.5 ton            Capacity 18 ton               Over 40 Seats
Paved Road Unpaved Road Paved Road Unpaved Road Paved Road Unpaved Road Paved Road Unpaved Road
Variable Cost
Fuel                                    12.56         15.31         21.26         29.25         26.73         39.77         21.68         27.66
Oil                                      3.87          4.72          6.55          9.01         10.36         15.42          6.69          8.54
Tires                                    8.68         20.74         13.31         33.65         29.o4         72.66         15.44         39.22
Maintenance and repair                  18.64         30.76         34.46         56.62         74.77        121.65         45.14         75.52
Fixed Cost
Salaries                                66.73         95.36         69.Co         84.30         80.77        117.45         63.80         95.66
Insurance                                7.57         10.82         10.24         12.52         18.33         26.65          6.61          9.92
Depreciation and interest               35.77         55.26         54.50         72.02        130.26        208.68         53.03         89.89
Other annual costs                      26.01         37.17         39.43         48.18         47.52         69.o9         48.12         72.19
Total                             179.83        270.14        248.75        345.55        417.78        671.37        260.51        418.60
Average load (in ton or pass)            3             3             5.0           5.0          10            10            24.4          24.4
Cost per unit-km                         o.60          0.90          0.50          0.69          0.42          0.67          0.11          0.17
Sources:  "El Parque de Vehiculos y su Evolucio6n Futura"t, Ministry of Public Works, September 1972.
"Costos de Operacion de los Vehiculos"i, Ministry of Public Works, January 1973.
Bank estimates.
February 1973



TABLE 5
COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Railway Cost of Freight and Passenger Services
(Per ton-Im and pass-km in 1971)
%  in           Average total cost         Long run marginal cost              Avoidable cost
total           without      with
ton-ko/pass-km      interest  interest       without           with           without           with
Type of service                 carried          charges    charges     depreciation    depreciation      depreciation    depreciation
Freight
Less than car-load
up to 0.1 ton                              0.1             2.01        2.23          1.33            1.38             0.19            0.24
0.1 - 1.0 ton                              0.4             1.41       1.56           o.85            0.91             0.19            0.24
1.0 - 7.0 ton                              1.3             0.80        0.88          0.38            0.43             0.18            0.24
7.0 - 14.0 ton                             2.2             0.71       0.78           0.32            0.37             0.18            0.23
Average less than car-load                   4.0              0.83       0.92          0.42            o.47             0.18            0.23
1971 average adjusted to 1972
prices                                     4.0              0.91       1.01          o.46            0.51             0.20            0.25
1972 adjusted average*                       4.0             1.00        1.10          o.48            0.54             0.20            0.25
Car-load
Livestock                                    2.0              0.68       0.75          0.32            0.36             0.17            0.22
Other car-load                              94.0             0.37        o.4o          0.16            0.19             0.09            0.12
Average car-load                            96.0             0.37        0.41          0.17            0.19             0.09            0.12
19'71 average adjusted to 1972
prices                                    96.0             0.41        0-45          0.19            0.21             0.10            0.13
1972 adjusted average*                      96.0             0.50       0.54           0.21            0.24             0.10            0.13
Total freight
Average total freight                      100.0              0.39       0.43          0.18            0.20             0.09            0.12
1971 average adjusted to 1972
prices                                   100.0              0.43       0.47          0.20            0.22             0.10            0.13
1972 adjusted average*                     100.0             0.52        0.56          o.22            0.25             0.10            0.13
Passengers
Lunrary                                     15.4             0.51        0.56          0.24            0.29             0.18            0.23
Special                                     21.3              0.53       0.58          0.25            0.27             0.15            0.20
General                                     32.6              0.54       o.60          0.25            0.27             0.12            0.16
Railcars                                    30.7             0.41        o.46          0.23            0.28             0.15            0.16
Average passenger service                  100.0              0.49       0.54          0.24            0.28             0.15            0.18
1971 average adjusted to 1972
prices                                   100.0             0.54        0.59          o.26            0.31             0.17            0.20
1972 adjusted average*                     100.0             0.17       0.20           0.17            0.20             0.17            0.20
* Assuming that passenger traffic is charged only with avoidable cost.
Source: CNR, November 1972 and Bank estimates.
February 1973



COLOMJTA
SIXTH 9AIAl2AY PROJECT
Lang-Te= Relationship between Freight Traffic, Invest-ent ERendltlree end Reel GDP
(a)"' leseatesent irwotib in Real Terms                                          (bf   Freight T f         r                                                      (a) Wravth of Ietant Capital Cts in Real Tent ner Freight Trffic Unit
GDP Gratbh in Real Ten                                                        GD    racR Real leTee                                                                                GDp  itiLh in Real PeacTs
Period       Total Sector    Highways       Railcayc    River *nd Airvays         Peri-d      Total Sector           Highcy            PRil.7ys    River and Airways   Tota1 Sector    Highya                 Railway          River and Airwy
1i611971          1.'0                1*On               0.7P             1.3S
1963-1969           i.66           0.90         2.57              3.30            1965-1971  /       0.78                0.91               G.7             0G.90                G.88          -O.G4              1.87                  2.40
1963-1971           1.21           1.16          1.27             1.53            1965-1973 5/       0.49                o.52               0.41             0.52                0.72           0.64              o.86                  1.01
3/
1967-1973           1.40           i.40         0.78              1.36            1969-1975 5/       0.70                0.83               0.57             0.48                0.70           0.57              0.19                  oi88
Hit-orical Tendency:                     Decreasing      Tanreasing   Decreasing       D-ereo.ing                         Decreasing    Slightly diecresing    Decreo.ing           Decreasing        Decr..aing      Increo.nkg   Rapidly Recreasing        Decreasing
1/  An exponential model wae uead ti  abtiin thRe  fnalnS ef (a) with            4/  The model seed taoobtain thRe enlae of (b) wee,
detc taken free Table 1:
Traffic - C-nstant a Reel GDP Exp. (a),
inseatsnat in Reel Terms - Conett a Roal GDP ECp. (a)
ate! the data' mmi Raken from Tablo 1.
All correlation  cefficienta obtained ware satisfactory.
2/  Very high becoese cf high onge-diteres incurred by wnitremati-a
of Atlntico line.
3/ 1973 woe take. as last year with reliable i-.ntsient penjectiens.              5/ T.. yaara after inveatsect hba  taken plane.                                           6/  (a) * (a) - (b).
pebmary 1973



COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAIIWAY PROJECT
CNR's Salary and Control Structure by Department in 1972
(Salaries Expressed in Col Pes )
Directors             Chief of Sections                                               Qualified workers
and Depart-               and Senior                                                 (Including White Collar                                          Total
ment Heads               Professionals               Technical Staff                       Workers)                       Unskilled Workers          Workers
Monthly       Monthly  Span of Salary         Monthly  Span of Salary            Monthly  Span of Salary            Monthly  Span of   Salary
Department       No.  salary   No. salary   control ratio    No. salary   control  ratio         No.  salary   control  ratio        No.  salary   control   ratio        No.
(1)    (2)    (3)   (4)    (3):(4)  (2):(4)  (5)    (6)    (5):(3)  (4):(6)   (7)       (8)    (7):(5)  (6):(8)   (9)    (10)    (9):(7)  (8):(10)    _
Administration       14   7,550   151   5,100     10.7      1.5    82   3,000      0.5      1.7      294   1,800       3.6     0.7        44   1,159     0.1      1.5          585
Commercial           11   8,000    33   4,300      3.0      1.9    49   4,000      0.1      1.1   2,124   1,500       43.3     2.7    1,766   1,175      0.8      1.3        3,983
Engineering          21   8,000   143   3,350      6.8      2.4     91   1,514     o.6      2.2    2,505   1,428       2.7     1.0    3,449   1,159      0.4      1.2        6,209
Finance               4   8,900    39  4,000        9.7    2.2      64   4,000     0.2      1.0      375   1,850       5.9     2.2       110   1,166     0.3      1.6          592
Total Enterprise
(Oct. 15, 1972)      50   8,000   366   3,350      7.4     2.4   266   4,000       0.8      0.8   5,298   1,428       18.5     2.8    5,369   1,159      0.1      1.3      11,369
Source: CNR
February 1973



TABLE 8
COLOMEIA
SIXTH RAITWAY PROJECT
Selected Operating Statistics, 1965-1972
1965          1966            1967           1968          1969           1970          1971             1972
(Jan.-Aug)
I. SYSTEM
Total route km                                      3,435         3,435          3,4l3          3,436          3,436          3,436           3,431          3,431
Total starf                                        13,802        12,937         12,161         11,549         fl,387         11,526          11,654         11,437
II. TRAFFIC
Passengers carried                  (milliom)           6.47          5.76           4.76           3.69           2.65            2.10           2.27           2.08
Passenger km                        (million)         513           491            418            351            273            235             267            249
Arerage journey                       (ion)            79            85             88             95             103            112            118            120
Net paying tons                                         3.06          3.31           3.17           3.24           3.05            2.78           2.65           1.80
Net paying too km                                     890         1,114            996          1,126          1,159           1,173          1,150            769
Total gross ton icm                                 1,925         2,214          2,051          2,160          2,197           2,190          2,159          1,375
Loaded freight car km               (million)          51.91         54.87          49.49          50.01          50.58           47.14          L6.28          29.29
Average haul                          (km)            291           336            314            347             380            422             434            415
Empty freight sea km                (sifliss)          27.20         28.83          23.97          21.71           22.03          23.28          23.61          13.20
III. TRAFFIC DENSITY
Pase.km per route km                  (000)          149.3          142.9          128.5           102.2           79.5           68.4            77.8          72.6
Freight net ton km per route lo       (000)          259.1          324.3          291.8          327.7           337.3          341.4          335.2           224.1
IV. OPERATIONS
Train km, passengers                (sillin)           2.63           2.21             2.26         2.09            1,99           1.92           2.16           1.53
Train ks, freight                   (million)          6.1u           6.22             6.99         7.80            7.48           6.47           5.45           2.68
Train km, total                     (million)          8.714          8.43             9.25         9.85            9147           8.39           7.61           4.21
Loco. km, steam                     (million)          3.04           3.73             3.68         3.38            1.83           0.45           0.40           0.20
Loc. Icm, diesel                    (iullion)          5.98           6.30             7.45         8.42            9.52          10.47           9.72           5.35
V. OPERATING EFFICIENCT (FGEIGHT)
Griws ton lo/train la.                               3114.70        355.95           293.42       276.92         293.72          338.49         396.0          514.5
Net ton km/train kh                                  1145.58        179.10           142.49        144.36         154.95         181.30         211.0          267.9
Net ton km/loaded car la.                             18.03          20.30            20.13         22.52          22.91          24.88          24.86          26.26
Car ts-nrosd time                     (day)           12.0           11.0             10.0          10.3           12.0           14.2           i5.8           12.7
Average speed                         (kmA/)          19.70          18.49             21.58        22.92          22.25          20.77           20.26         19.72
Loto. kh/day, steam                                   65.2           93.0             68.2         63.o            36.4            5.0            1.1            1.9
Loco. im/day, diesel                                 184.0          198.5            234.5         265.2          181.2          196.4          221.9          185.70
Traffic osits/esployee                (000)          101.7          124.1            116.3        127.9           125.8          122.2          121.5           89.0
VI. AVAILABILITY
Steve locomotives                      (S)            55.2           55.3             50.1          45.3           25.4            7.0            7.0           15.1
Diesel locomotives                     (%)            69.3           76.6             79.6          79.5           83.3           85.2           85.4           85.1
Freight cars                           (9)            n.a.           n.a.             78.8          75.3           80.9           33.9           85.7           83.6
VII.  DEPAIIMENTS
Total unber/year                                   1,855          1,981            2,555         5,947          4,694          7,116          5,969          2,901
Total hours lost                                   9,092          9,893            9,829        15,083        16,024          25,759         18,263         10,823
Hours lost/deraislment                                 4.90           4.99              3.85         3.82           3.41           3.62           3.06           3.73
Vehicles damaged                                   4,418          3,368             4,806        7,170          7,585         11,569           9,462         4,956
Sousce: CNE
February 1973



TABLE 9
COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Motive Power and Rolling Stock, 1972
Yeazs in service
Total    0-5      6-10     11-15      16-20      21-25    26-30       31-35       36-40
Locomotives
steaml/                                    15                                   1            8          5         1
Diesel, up to 800 hp                       10                         8                      2
810-1330 hp                           126        60     29        32        5
2000 hp                                10               10
Total diesel                      146        60     39        40        5             2
Hailcars
40-seater                                 27                        21                                 6
146-seater (trailers)                     23                        23
Total                               50                        44                                 6
Passenger coaches
40-seater                                114       73                                      10         31
45-seater                                146                                                         146
Sleepings                                 14       12                                                  2
Restaurant                                27        8                                       4         15
Bar                                        5        5
Baggage                                   26       11                                                 15
Total                             332       109                                      14        209
Freight Cars (CNR)
Box cars                               2,551      896    1,313                  334                    7          1
Gondolas                               1,164      152       713                           268         31
Cattle cars                              380                         339         41
Flat cars                              1,041      247       242        2        519                                           31
Hopper cars                              358      110       158       90
Tank cars                                487        4       483
Total                            5,981    1,409    2,909        431       894        268         38         1           31
Privately owned tank cars 2/
Fuel                                     191
Propane gas                                7
Tar                                        8
Honey                                     24
Total                              230
1/All to be phased out in 1973
2/ Age unknown
Source: CNR
February 1973



COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Prozram for Reduction of Services, Personnel and Number of Stations on Uneconomic Lines
Actual situation in 1972                              Target for end of 1973                                 Target for end of 1974
No. of       No. of                                   No. of       No. of                                  No. of        No. of
freight     passenger                                 freight    passenger                                 freight      passenger
trains       trains        No. of        No. of       trains       trairs         No. of       No. of      trains        trains        No. of        No. of
Line              per monthl/  per month    personnel    stations        per monthY per month        personnel    stations   per monthV/ per month    personnel    stations
Cali - Popayan                  49           181          197           17            24            60           138           16          24            60            92            9
Pereira - Manizales              0             0           28            9             o             0             3            3           0             0             3            j  /
La Caro - Barbosa               97           142          162           28            48           142           162           28          48            71           152           18
Pereira - Cartago               43            13           60            7             4             0            34            1           4             0            34            1
Armenia - Pereira               14            66           109          11             0             0            50            1           0             0            20            1
Espinal - Neiva                 85           221          215           13            68          150            172           11          68           150           172          11
1/ Including mixed trains.
'/ To be eliminated in 1975.
June 1973
0C



COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic 1968-1972 ard 1977 Forecast
1968                        1969                          1970                        1971                         1972                          1977
000     Million    ALH      000      Million    ALH       000     Million    ALH      000    Million      ALH      000      Million    ALE      000      Million    ALH
ton     ton-km     km       ton      ton-km     km        ton     ton-km      km      ton    ton-km       km       ton      ton-km     km       ton      ton-km      km
Maize and other cereals                    104        55      529        99        59     595        154        109     709      103        57       553       83         60     724       100          56     560
Wheat                                      249       140      565       205       102      498       288        140     487       284      176       620      376        204     550       370         222      600
Coffee                                    284        147      516       273       147     540        252       137      543      236       120       508      246        135     547       280         151     538
Rice                                       40         16     405        43         16     360         35        18      518       61        33       541       81         38     1.75      150          77     513
Cotton                                      40        24      600        43        25     572         40        24      590       46        26       565       50         26     562        55          31     571
Sugar                                      270        90      334       208        74      355       130         44     341       140       43       307      166         62     373       181          62      340
Livestock                                  148        28      192       148        33      220       134        30      225      112        23       205      112         24     210       159          32      203
Salt                                        97        33      342       107        39      370       108        40      370       115       52       452       85         34     397       120          44      370
Other minerals                              66        29      444        85        36      424        91        42      465       113       54       478      101         5o     495       129          64     495
Fertilizers                                161        74      460       207        93      452       237       113      4.79     277       133       480      272        128     469       415         203      488
Steel and iron                              74        52      700       112        8i      721       114         80     704       113       87       770      105         78     745       186         144     774
Petroleum products                        461         86      186       450        88      194       316        67      214      266        54       203      251         63     252       270          57     211
Asphalt                                     92        33      357        90        32      360        86        29      334        75       25       333      107         37     352       106          37      349
Cement                                     128        20      160       113        20      176        90        15      169        87       15       172       75         15     194       143          27      190
Paper                                       31        28      914        40        33      945        41        38      926        43       38       884       44         38     848        51          47      925
Sub-Total                          2,245        855     381    2,223         883      397     2,116       926      438    2,071       936      452    2,154         997     463    2,715        1,255     462
Others                                     995       269      270       827       276      334       665       247      371      582       214       368      577        201     348       577         231     400
Grand Total                        3,240      1,124     347     3,050      1,159      380    2,781      1,173     422    2,653    1,150        433    2,731      1,198      439    3,292        1,485     451
Source: CNR and mission forecast.
June 1973



DOLOMBLA
SIXTH RAIIWAY PROJISCT
Passenger Traffic 1968-1972 and 1977 Forecast
1968                  1969                   1970                   1971                   1972                   1977
000   Million  AJ    000   Million  kJ    000   MilDin  AJ    000   Million  AJ    000   Mi1lion  AJ    000   Million   AJ
Pass   Pass-Km  Km  Pass   aass-Kn Km   Pass   Pass--K   Km   P.   P             m  Kmn  Pass   Pass-Km  Km   Pass   Pass-Km   Km
Special                             739     60      81    554      46      83    419      38     90    462       41     90    483      43      89    362      35       97
General                          2,158    132       61  1,356      81     60    915      57      62    908      57      63  1,155      73      63    875      65      74
Autoferros                          657     91    138    602       78    130    628       77    123    745       87    117    971    117    120    794    103         130
Express                            136      69    507    139       68    491    136       63    466    154       82    532    254    129    507    157    110         700
Rapid                                                                                               221                    18      83    15(      15      Lob
Subtotal                    3,690    352       95  2,651    273    103  2,098    235    112  2,269    267    118  3,0814    3B0    123  2,338    328             140
Season tickets                      -       -       -     -        -       -     854      13     15    892       14     15  1,179      18      15  1.000      1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                                          K -    __ 5  1
Total                       3,690    352      95  2,651    273    103  2,952    348        84  3,161    281       89  4,263    390       93  3,338    343       103
Sources:  CNI, Mission estimateB,
Junc 1973



COLOMB0A
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Th. 1973-1976 Ineest-ent Plan
1973                           M971                           1975                          1976                                            TOTAL PLAN
Col Pea (000)                  Col Pea (000)                  Col Pee (000)                 Col Pea (000)                    Cal Pe  (COO)                       US$ (coo)
Local   Fortign     Total      Local   Foreiga      Total     Lo-a    Foreign    Total      Local      Foreign    Tota      Local    Foreign      Total       Local     Foreign      Total       %
434 ke track rehabilitation                 30,624    56,836    87,460    23,952    32,099    56,051    18,312    31,985    50,297         _-                   -        72,888    120,920    193,808    3,239.5    5,374.2    8,613.7    11.1
754 saitofe-                                  -       13,685    13,685       -       10,492    10,492       -        5,411      5,411      -        5,411      5,411       -        34,999     34,999        -       1,555.5    1,555.5      2.0
576 I. c-ncrete sleepers                    14,709    11,462    26,171    28,287    22,011    50,328    59,969    46,728   106,697    59,969        46,728    106,697    162,934    126,959    289,893    7,241.5    5,642.6   12,884.1    16.6
175 km hard rils                              -       12,771    12,771       -       68,651    68,051       -         -          -         -         -          -         -         81,422     81,422        -       3,618.8    3,618.8       4.6
Infrastract-re and bridges                  10,656     2,455    13,111      7,108    26,222    33,630      8,344    15,105    53,449      8,344      1,890    10,234    34,752      75,672    110,424    1,544.5    3,363.2    4,907.7       6.3
Ballasting -ad resleepersig                 18,817      -        18,817     9,580      -         9,580     9,580       -        9,580    11,827       -       11,827    49,801        -         49,804    2,213.5        -       2,213.5      2.8
Alu=inother-ic welding                        -        2,178     2,178      3,987    17,324    21,311      4,723       -        4,723     5,925    12,365    18,290    11,635       31,867      46,502      650.4    1,416.3    2,066.7       2.7
Maintennc  nqnipoent,
ballast roashers                            -        5,876     5,876       -       37,469    37,469       -         8,302     8,302      -        11,343    14,343       -        65,990      65,990       -        2,932.9    2,932.9      3.8
100 ballast care -..                                                         -       15,097    15,097    15,097       7.548     7.548      -         7,548     7,548       -        30,193      30,193       -        1,341.9    1,341.9      1.7
Total Permanent Way Department       74,806   105,263    180,069    73,214   229,395    302,609   100,928   145,079   246,007    86,065    88,285    174,350   335,013    568,022       903,035   14,889.4   25,245.4   40,134.8    51.6
28 diesel loognooti-s                         -       80,246    80,246       -       80,246    80,246       -         -          -         -          -         -          -       160,492    160,492        -        7,133.0    7,133.0      9.2
Spares fcr o-con.ttese                        -         -         -          -       13,672    43,672       -        21,387    21,387      -        21,387    21,387       -        86,146      86,446       -        3,842.0    3,842.0      4.9
Sparse for froight care                      8,061     7,777    15,311      6,720    21,452    28,172      6,720    30,897    37,617       -        17,613    17,613    21,504       77,239     98,743      955.7    3,432.8    1,388.5       5.6
Workahop equipaent                            -         -          -          -        -          -       20,160      8.656    28,816    26.880      6.920     33.800    47.o4o     15.S76      62.616    2.090.7       692.3    2,783.0    :3.
Total Mec-hnti-l Depar-nto-           8,064    87,523    95,587      6,720   045,370   152,090    26,880    60,940    87,820    26,880    45,920        72,800    68,544    339,753    408,297    3,o46.4   15,100.1   18,146.5    23.3
Statins and yardo                            2,688      -         2,688    13,440      -        13,40     26,880       -       26,980    13,440       -       13,440    56,448        -         56,448    2,508.8        -       2,508.8      3.2
Warshouens                                     672      -           672      _    -               -        6,720       -        6,720     2,688       -        2,688     10,080        -        10,080      448.0        -         448.0      o.6
Freight handling sqoip-est                    -         -         -          -        3,544      3,544      -        10,064    10,064      -         6,292     6,292       -        19,900      19,900       -          884.4      884.4      1.1
28 tr-cks and 64 trailere                     -         -         -          -       26,122    26,122       -          -         _         -          -         _          -        26,122      26,122       -        i,161,o    1,161.0      1.5
136 containers                               _-         -         -          _         _                    -        4.610      4.610      -          -         -          -          .610      1.610        -          204.9       204.9     0.
Total Operations Depart-ert           3,360       -        3,360      -        29,666    43,106    33,600    14,674    48,274    16,128       6,292    22,420    66,528       50,632    117,160    2,956.8    2,250.3    5,207.1       6.7
Doellinge                                      672      -          672      6,720      -         6,720     6,720       -        6,720     1,008       -        1,028     15,120        -        15,120      672.0        -         672.0      0.9
Talacoesn,nlcstimes                          2,688      -         2,688     6,048    23,094    29,142      2,688    60,760    63,448      8,064    79,257     87,321    19,488    163,111    182,599        866.1    7,249.4    8,115.5    10.4
Cogsulting -eirvces and training             7,526    19,530    27,056      6,731    14,684    21,415      6,731    12,580    19,311      5,920      7,548    13,468    26,906      54,342    381,250    1,195.9    2,415.2    3,611.1        4.6
Wiater damages                             5,040        -         5.040    15,120    23,058    38.178        -         -         -          -         -          -       20,16o      23,058     43,218      896.0    i.o24.8    1.920.8       2.5
Sub-total                            102,156   212,316   31h472   127,993    465,267   593,260   177,547   294,033   471,580   1114,065    227,302    371,367    551,761    1,198,918  1,750,679    21,522.6   53,285.2   77,807.8   100.0
Physical montingeocies                       2,042     1,136     3,179      2,56o     3,850      6,410     3,551      2,94o     6,491     2,881      2,273     5,L54    11,035       10,199    21,234       490.4       453.3      943.7      1.2
Price oontingencies                          7,294     3,143     10,737    28,722    38,887    67,609    70,628    50,485   121,113    85,229    57,394   142,623    191,873        150,209   342,082    8,527.7    6,676.o   15,203.7    19.6
Total                               111,493   216,895   328,388   159,275   508,001   667,279   251,726    347,458   599,184   232,175    286,969   519,144   754,669   1,359,326  2,113,995    33,540.7   60,414.5   93,955.2   120.8
, -ontingenctee, par year                    9.1       2.2       4.4       24.4       9.2       12.5      41.8       18.2      27.1      61.2       26.3      39.8       36.8        13.4       20.8        36.8        13.4      20.8
Jane 1973



GOL40IBA
SIXTH RAILWAY PHOJECT
The 1973-1974 Pro.j ct
1973                                                            1974OTAL PROT
Col Pee (000)                     US$ (000)                      Col Pee (000)                     u                              Col Pee (00)                        u$ (000)
Local   Foreign     Total      Local    Foign        Ttl         L       Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign       Total      Loani    Foreign     Total       Local    Foreign        Tot.al    %
365 ke track rehabilitation           30,624    56,836    87,460    1,361.1    2,526.0    3,887.1    23,952    32,099    56,051    1,064.5    1,426.6    2,491.i    54,576    88,935    143,511    2,525.6    3,952.6    6,378.2    15.8
530  nWltoree                            -       13,685    13,685       -          608.2      608.2       -       10,592    10,492        -         466.3      466.3        -       24,177     24,177       -        1,074.5    1,074.5      2.7
152 ke concrete sleeper-              15,709    11,462    26,171       653.7      509.5    1,163.1    28,287    22,041    50,328    1,257.2         979.6    2,236.8    42,996    33,503       76,499    1,910.9    1,489.0    3,399.9       8.4
175 ko hard railo                        -       12,771    12,771       -          567.6      567.6       -       68,651    68,651       329.2    3,051.2    3,051.2        -       81,422     81,422       -        3,618.8    3,618.8      9.0
Infr-etructure and bridgee            10,656      2,555    13,111      473.6      109.1       582.7     7,408    26,222    33,630       425.8    1,165.4    1,494.6    18,064    28,677        46,741      802.8    1,274.5    2,077.3       5.1
Ballasting and reeleepering           18,817        -      18,817      836.3        -         836.3      9,580      -        9,580       177.2       -         425.8    28,397        -        28,397    1,262.1        -       1,262.1      3.1
Aluminothermic wlding                    -        2,178     2,178       -           96.8       96.8     3,987    17,324    21,311         -         770.0      947.2      3,987    19,502      23,489      177.2       866.8    1,044.0      2.6
M.linitnane eqipanat,                                                                                                                                                                                                1,926.5    1,926.5      5.8
hMl1et  roereqren                       -       5,876      5,876       -          261.2      261.2       -       37,469    37,469        -       1,665.3    1,665.3        -      43,345      43,345       -
50 ballast care                          _         _          _         _          _           _          -       15,097    15,097                  671.0      671.0        -      15.097      15.097       -          671.0      6710 -     1-7
Total Pereanent Way Lepart-ent     74,806   105,263   180,069    3,324.7    4,678.3    8,003.0    73,214   229,395   302,609    3,253.9   1O,195,5    13,449.3   148,020   334,658    482,678    6,578.6   14,873.7   21,452.3    53.2
28 die-ee loconoti-ee                    -       80,246    80,246       -        3,566.5    3,566.5       -       80,246    80,2116      -        3,566.5    3,566.5        -     160,592     160,492       -        7,133.0    7,133.0    17.7
Spane  for loo-omtir                     -          -         -         -           -          -          -       43,672    42,672        -       1,951.0    1,941.0        -      42,672      42,672       -        1,941.0    1,941.0      4.8
Spares for fraight care                8,065      7,277    15,341      358.4       323.4      681.8     6,720    21,552    28,172        298.7      953.4    1,252.1    15,784    28,729       43,513      657.1    1,276.8    1,933.9       4.2
Total Meohanical Depart-ent         8,0o6     87,523    95,587      385.4    3,889.9    4,248.3      6,720   145,370   152,090        298.7    6,560.9    6,759.6    14,784   232,893      247,677      657.1   10,350.8   11,007.9    27.3
Statione and yarde                     2,688        -       2,688      119.5        -         119.5    13,440       -       13,450      597.3        -         597.3    16,128        -        16,128      716.8        -         716.8      1.8
Warehowes                                672        _         672       29.9        _          29.9        -        -          -          -          -          -           672       -           672       29.9        -          29.9      0.1
Freight handling equip-ent               -                    -          - _          _                   -        3,544     3,544       _          157.5      157.5        -       3,544       3,545       -          157.5      157.5      0.4
28 trucks and 65 trail-rs                -         _          -          _         _           _          -       26,122    26,122       _        1,161.0    1,161.0        -      26,122      26,122       -        i,161.0    1,161.0      2.8
Total Operotione Department         3,360        _       3,360      149.4        -         159.4    13,545     29,666    43,106       597.3    1,318.5    1,915.8    16,800    29,666       56,466      746.7    1,318.5    2,065.2       5.1
DOllinge                                 672        -         672       29.9        _          29.9     6,720       -        6,720      298.7        -         298.7      7,392       _         7,392      328.6        -         328.6      0.8
Tele-c-ouni-ati.on                     2,688        -       2,688      119.5       _          119.5     6,048    23,094    29,142       268.8    1,026.4    1,295.2       8,736    23,094      31,830      388.3    1,026.4    1,414.7       3.5
Coneulting nerricee and training       7,526    19,530    27,056       334.5      868.0    1,202.5      6,731    14,684    21,415       299.2       652.6      951.8    14,257    34,215       48,471      633.7    1,520.6    2,154.3       9.3
Winter damages                         5,045        -       5,040      224.0        -         224.0    15,120    23,058    38,178       672.0    1,024.8    1,696.8    20,160    23,058        43,218      896.0    1,024.8    1,920.8       4.8
Sub-total                         102,156   22,316   315,572    5,540.4    9,436.2   13,976.6   127,993   565,267   593,260    5,688.6   20,678.6   26,367.2   230,149   677,583           907,732   10,229.0   30,114.8   40,343.8   100.0
Physical ocntingencies                 2,053      1,136     3,179       90.8       50.5       141.3     2,560      3,850     6,410      113.8       171.1      284.9     5,603      4,986       9,589      204.6      221.6       426.2     1.1
Price -ootingenoiee                    7,294     3,453    10,737       324.2      153.0       477.2    27,722    38,887    67,609    1,276.5    1,728.3    3,0o4.8    36,016    42,330         78,346    1,600.7    1,881.3    3,482.0      8.6
Total                             111,493   216,895   328,388    4,955.4    9,639.7   14,595.1   159,275   508,005   667,279    7,078.9   22,578.0   29,656.9   270,768   724,899    995,667   12,034.3   32,217.7   44,252.0   109.7
S o2ntingerciee, per year              9.1        2.2       4.5          9.1        2.2         4.4    25.4        9.2      12.5        24.4        9.2       12.5        17.6      7.0         9.7        17.6        7.0        9.7
June 1973



TAKLE 15
COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan
Col Pes (000)                                 uS$ (coo)
1973         1974         Total            1973          1974.          Total         %
Rails and track materials for part
of the 364 km to be rehabilitated*                         38,403       32,099        70,502          1,706.8        1,426.6       3,133.4        14,.6
230 switches                                                   -          10,492        10,492             -             466.3         466.3         2.2
253,232 fastenings for concrete sleepers                     11,462       22,041        33,503            509.4          979.6       1,489.0         6.9
13,020 T hard rails for 175 km of track                      12,771       68,651        81,422            567.6        3,051.2       3,618.8        16.8
Infrastructure and bridges                                    2,455       26,222        28,677            109.1        1,165.4       1,274.5         5.9
Welding equipment and materials                               2,178       17,324        19,502             96.8          770.0         866.8         4.0
Maintenance equipment and crushers                            5,876       37,469        43,345             261.2       1,665.3       1,926.5         8.9
50 ballast cars                                                -          15,097        15,097             -             671.0         671.0         3.1
Total Permanent Way Department                      73,145       229,395      302,540           3,250.9     10,195.4        13,466.3       62.4
Spares for locomotives                                         -          143,672       43,672             -          1,941.0        1,941.0         9.0
Spares for freight cars                                       7,277       21,452        28,729            323.4         953.4        1,276.8         5.9
Total Mechanical Department                           7,277       65,124       72,401             323.4      2,894.4         3,217.8       14.9
Freight handling equipment                                     -           3,544         3,544             -            157.5          157.5         0.7
28 trucks and 64 trailers                                      -          26,122        26,122             -          1,161.0        1,161.0         5.4
Total Operatiors Department                            -          29,666       29,666              -         1,318.5         1,318.5        6.1
Telecommunication equipment                                    -          23,094       23,094              -          1,026.4        1,026.4         4.8
Consulting services and training                             19,530       14,684        34,214            868.o         652.6        1,520.6         7.0
Winter damages                                                 _          23,058        23,058              -         1,024.8         1,024.8        4.8
Sub-total                                  99,952       385,021      484,973           4,442.3     17,112.1        21,554.4      100.0
Unallocated (contirgencies)                                   3,248       38,348        41,596            144.4       1,704.4        1,848.8         8.6
Total, Goods and Services                                                     526,569                                       23,403.2      108.6
Interest during construction                                                            35.931                                       1.596.8         7.4
Total Loan                                                           562,500                                       25,000.0      116.0
% contingencies, per year                                     3.2         10.0                              3.2          10.0
* Balance of imported components already in stock
June 1973



COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Revenue, Expenses and Net Income
Actual 1966-1972: Estimated 1973-1977                                       Million Pesos
A C T U A L                                                                                         E S T I M A T E D
1966           1967            1968           1969            1970           1971           1972                1973            L974           1975            1976          1977
I. OPERATING REVENUES
Freight - Comsmercial                 )                          247.9          291.3           347.5          365.0           382.1         407.3               466.0           495.9           520.6           547.2         564.3
- ommn                                  263.5            16.7            19.5           21.9            27.6           30.5           24.5                26.0            26.0           25.0            25.0          25.0
Passengers                                        31.0            34.4           35,1            34.0           32.4            37.4          56.8                 65.3           70.9            70.7            76.0          76.0
Miscellaneous                                     11.0            13.2            18.7           15.9            15.8           17.6           20.1                22.5            23.0           26.0            28.5          32.0
Additional Freight Tariff Adjustements              -              -               -              -               -              -              -                   -              65.2          145.2           242.6         354.7
Total                                            305.5           312.2          364.6           419.3          440.8           467.6         508.7               579.8           681.0           787.5           919.3       1,052.0
II. OPERATING EXPENSES
Maintenance of Way & Works                         57.6           80.9            90.2           90.2           124.3          142.9          152.2               166.5          186.0           203.8           223.9         245.4
Maintenance of Equipment                          47.3            47.5           56.8            62.1           80.8            95.6           98.1               126.3          149.6           168.3           185.8         207.0
Transportation                                   134.6           154.2          160.9           166.3          181.0           192,4          217.2              247.8           283.4           312.2          342.3          376.3
General Expenses                                  27.1            33.7           36.9            45.0           52.8            62.4          DV2.3                80.4           86.4            93.3           100.8         109.0
Total Working Expenses                           266.6           316.3          344.8           363.6          438.9           493_3         539.8/2             621.0/3         705.4           777.6          852.8          937.7
/of which
Personnel                                  177.4          211.3           222.5          240.1           294.1          332.0          368.0               423.5           487.6          538.8           591.0         650.1
Fuel                                        21.0           23.8            23.2           19,9            16.1           18.9           24.8                28.4            32.2           36.5            40.6          47.0
Other Material                              35.5           50.4            61.5           58.3            71.1           80.9           S2.0                97.2           108.7          120.3           133.2         147.5
Other                                       32.7           30.8            37.6           45.3            57.6           64.7           65.0                71.9            76.9           82.0            88.0          93.1/
Depreciation                                      35.9            42.6           41.8            53.0            65.2           78.7           85.8                93.0          104.0           113.0           118.0         120.0
Less Reduction of Losses in
Respect of Uneconomic Lines                   -                              -                              -                             -                   5.0             9.0            14.0           16.0           16.0
Total Operating Expenses                         302.5           358.9          386,6           416.6          504.1           572.0         625.6               709.0           800.4           876.6          954.8        1,041.7
III.  NET OPERATING REVENUES (Loss)                            3.0           (46.7)         (22.0)            2.7           (63.3)        (104.4)        (116.9)            (129.2)         (119.4)          (89.1)          (35.5)         10.3
IV.  NON-OPERATING REVENUES (Net)                            13.0            16.0           11.9            31.3           20.4            10.2           25.4               19.0            19.0            15.0           10.0           10,0
V.  NET REVENUES (Loss)                                     16.o           (30.7)          (10.1)          34.0           (42.9)         (94.2)         (91.5)            (110.2)         (100.4)          (74.1)          (25,5)         20.3
VI.  INTEREST                                                29.0            39.9           44.6            53.3           58.1            61.2           98.2               87.6            97.5           129.9          143.6          143.8
VII,  NET INCOME (Deficit)                                    (13.0)         (70.6)          (54.7)         (19,3)         (101.0)        (155.4)        (189.7)            (197.8)         (197.9)         (204.0)         (169.1)       (123.5)
RATIOS:
Working Ratio        %                            87.3           101.3           94.6            86.7           99.6           105.5          106.1              106.2           102.3            97.0            91.0          87.6
Operating Ratio      7                            99.0           115.0          106.0            99.4          114.4           122.3         123.0               122.3           117.5           111.3          103.9           99.0
Times Interest Earned                              0.5             -              -               0.6            -               -                                 -               -               -              -              0.1
Debt Coverage                                       -              -              0.3             0.8            0.3             -                                 _               _               0.1            0.2            0.4
Return on Net Fixed Assets 7.                      0.2                            -               0.1            -               _                                 -                               -              -              0.2
1 Excludes winter damage repairs auntig to 44.5 million Pesos.
2/  Excludes winter damage repairs amounting to 33.7 million Pesos.
3/  Excludes winter damage repairs amounting to 20 million Pesos.
Source: CNR and Mission estimates
June 1973



COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary Balance Sheets
Actual 1967-1972: Estimated 1973-1976
A C T U A L                                                            E S T I M A T E D
1967        1968        1969        1970        1971        1972*                       1973        1974        1975        1976
ASSETS
Current Assets:  Cash                                                          26          20          26          23          32           40                         40           37          37          37
Inventories                                                 161         207         187         485         575         458                         448         528         553         550
other                                                       132         120         153         159         205          241                        284         289         315          292
Total current assets                                        319         347         366         667         812         739                         772         854         905         879
FIXED ASSETS
Gross fixed assets                                                          2,091       2,337       2,870       3,287       3,578        3,745                      4,035       4,599        5,149       5,636
Less accumulated depreciation                                                 229         269          315         378         453         534                         627         731         844         962
Net fixed assets                                                     1,862       2,068       2,555       2,909       3,125       3,211                       3,408       3,868       4,305       4,674
Miscellaneous Assets (including deferred assets)                                   27          46          63          62          90         226                         215         203         192         180
TOTAL ASSETS                                            2,208       2,461       2,984       3,638       4,027       4,176                       4,395       4,925       5,402       5,733
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                                                            75           95         151        190          304         364                         290         260         250         250
Longterm Debt:                                                                    787         890       1,165       1,500       1,673       1,961                       2,142       2,660       2,990       3,065
Capital and Surplus                                                             1,600       1,776       1,950       2,143       2,387       2,684                       2,984       4,194       3,525       3,920
Less accumulated deficit                                                       373        430          445         556         774       1,016                       1,234       1,432       1,636       1,805
Net Capital                                                                 1,227       1,346       1,505       1,587        1,613       1,668                       1,750       1,762       1,889       2,115
Reserves for social benefits, etc.                                            119         130          163         361         437         183                         213         243         273         303
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                       2,208       2,461       2,984       3,638       4,027       4,176                       4,395       4,925       5,402       5,733
RATIOS:
Current assets/current liabilities                                               4        3.7          2.4         3.5         2.7         2.0.                        2.7         3.3         3.6         3.5
Current assets less inventories/current
liabilities                                                                 2         1.5         1.2         0.96        0.78         0.77                       1.1          1.2         1.4         1.3
Debt-equity                                                            39/61      40/60       44/56       49/51       51/49       54/46                       55/45       60/40       61/39        59/41
*  Revaluatioo of fixed assets only partly done in 1972 is excluded. Also some amounts shown by CNR as anounts
due to it from Government in respect of long-term loans has been excluded as Government had not agreed to
such provision of funds.
Source: CNR and Mission Estimates
June 1973



TABLE 18
COLONBIA
Sixth Railway Project
Cash Flow Forecast
CASH REQUIRED                                                       1973           1974           1975            1976
A.  Investment
Local                                                         111.5          159.3           251.7          232.2.
Foreign Exchange                                              216.9          508.0           347.5          286.9
Subtotal A                                               328.4          667.3          599.2           519.1
B.  Debt Service
Interest                                                       87.6           97.5           129.9          143.6
Repayment                                                     174.6           201.2          212.8          211.0
Subtotal B                                               262.2          298.7          342.7           354.6
C. Other
Payment toward short term debt and
outstanding suppliers' bills                                 73.0             -              -              -
TOTAL                                                    663.6          966.0          941.9           873.7
CASH AVAILABLE
(1)  Internally Generated
Net Operating Revenues (Loss)                               (149.7)         (119,4)         (89.1)         (35.5)
Depreciation                                                  93.0           104.0          113.0          118.0
Profit on Sale of Real Estate                                 19.0            19.0           15.0           10.0
Increase in Social Security Reserves                          30.0           30.0            30.0           30.0
Subtotal (1)                                             (7.7)          33.6           68.9           122.5
(2)  Loans
Proposed IBRD                                                101.2          428.3            33.0             -
Supplier's credit for locomotives and spares                  76.3            76.3            -              -
US$20 million loan from foreign bank                         126.0           162.0          162.0            -
Local bank loans                                              32.0            53.0            -              -
Further foreign loans to be arranged for 1975/76               -               -            347.5          286.9
Subtotal (2)                                            335.5          719.6          542.5           286.9
(3)  Other - use of materials in stock
mainly Polish rails and accessories)                  36.0            -               -              -
(4) Government Assistance
(i) Debt servicing of 68,119 and 267 Co
presently met by Government                            81.8           81.8           81.9            69.0
(ii) Amounts now agreed to be provided
by Government                                         218.0          128.0          128.0             -
(iii)  Further amounts to be provided, after review              -               -            120.6          395.3
TOTAL                                           663.6          963.0           941.9          873.7
Cash at beginning of year                                40.2           40.2            37.2           37.2
Cash at end of year                                      40.2           37.2            37.2           37.2
Source:  CNR and mission estimates
June 1973



ANNEX 1
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CNR's Program of Action, 1973-1976
A.   Quantitative Targets              1973        1974       1975       1976
1. Availability of diesel
locomotives (Z)                 86          86         87         87
2. Availability of freight
cars (X)                        84          85         85         86
3. Average net load per
freight car (tons)              26.5        27         27.5       28
4. Average net load per
train (tons)                   260         265        270        275
5. Turnaround time (days)           14.0       13.0       11         10
6. Average staff               11,400      11,400    11,300    11,200
7. Working ratio (%)               107        102         97         91
8. Operating ratio (X)             123         118       111        104
9. Freight tariff increase (%)1/ -              12.5       12.5      12.5
10. Selective passenger
tariff increase (%) 1/          -           10         -          10
B.   Consulting Services
During the Project period, CNR will continue to employ qualified
consultants, acceptable to the Bank, in the fields of management, track main-
tenance and rehabilitation, workshops and operations. Further needs for con-
sulting services beyond 1974 shall be reviewed with the Bank.
1/   In current terms.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
C.   Studies
With the aid of its consultants, CNR will continue to study the
potential development of traffic between Barranquilla, Cartagena and the rail-
ways network, using containers, piggyback and other means. This study should
be completed by September 1973 and its recommendations discussed with the Bank
before the end of the year.
D.   Service Improvements
With the aid of its consultants, CNR will prepare, by end September
1973, an operational plan for improvement of service on the Santa Marta-Bogota
section so that the average time taken for delivery of freight offered at a
rail terminal on this section is decreased, e.g., between Santa Marta and Bogota,
it should be reduced from the present 14 days to about 9 days in the first in-
stance and brought down further to, say, 5 days in the next stage. The ques-
tion of introducing a guaranteed freight delivery service between specific
points, Santa Marta and Bogota for instance, should also be considered. A
specific timetable for the implementation of this operational plan will be
drawn up and submitted to the Bank. Progress will be reported quarterly.
Similar operational plans with specific targets and dates for im-
provement of service will be drawn up by:
(i) end 1973 for Santa Marta-Medellin;
(ii) March 1974 for Buenaventura-Cali;
(iii) June 1974 for Buenaventura-Medellin.
Progress in implementation of these plans will be reported to the
Bank quarterly.
E.   Uneconomic Lines and Services
As mentioned in paragraph 3.13, CNR will implement a program in-
tended to reduce losses on the La Caro-Barbosa, Espinal-Neiva, Cali-Popayan,
Armenia-Pereira, Pereira-Manizales and Pereira-Cartago lines. The implementa-
tion of this proposal was agreed upon with CNR and the Government during
negotiations.               S
F.   Rehabilitated Lines Cali-Buenaventura and Medellin-Zarzal
CNR will establish, before end-1973, a commercial plan for these
lines based on marginal cost pricing for traffic originating between
Buenaventura and Medellin and carried over all or part of these sections,
and aiming at carrying the following traffic in millions ton-km:



ANNEX 1
Page 3
1973     1974    1975    1976
Medellin-Zarzal                  30       50       55      60
Cali-Buenaventura               100      103      106     108
June 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Management Consultants
A.   Objectives
1. The consultants will assist CNR in reviewing its organizational
structure and its administrative and planning procedures in order
to increase efficiency at all management levels and enable CNR to
perform its proper role in the transport sector and in the Colombian
economy.
2.   Toward these targets, the consultants will study the following
areas:
(a) Management Structure
(b) Management Information
(c) Management Planning
(d) Personnel Management
3.   The consultants will produce all reports as provided in Section C
following and assist CNR in implementing the recommendations for
management improvement.
B.   Scope of the Consulting Services
1.   ManaRement Structure
(a) The consultants will review the organization of CNR and the
functions and responsibility of the staff at all management
levels. They will make recommendations, wherever necessary,
for organizational changes and/or transfer of responsibilities
within the current structure.
(b) Special attention will be given to:
(i) Decision-making responsibilities of the regional
divisions within CNR;
(ii) Possibility of combining some of the regional
divisions;



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(iii) Separation of the Transport and Commercial functions
at the divisional level;
(iv) Possibility of dividing the Technical Department
into separate Mechanical and Permanent Way Departments
and of delegating authority to individual workshops;
(v) Coordination among managements of operating
departments;
(vi) Ensuring of an adequate level of safety in all
operating departments.
2.   Management Information
The consultants will review and revise the information flow
within CNR so that all management levels receive, in time, the
data relevant to their short and long term planning.
3.   Management Planning
(a)  The consultants will recommend a set of tasks for CNR's
planning office and will define its responsibilities and
authority over other departments. The consultants will
also determine the optimal size of this office and its
staffing requirements.
(b)  The consultants will review and determine the adequacy
of long term planning within CNR and suggest amendments
wherever necessary.
4.   Personnel Management
(a)  The consultants will study the span of salaries at all
management levels and suggest changes as necessary,
paying special attention to reducing the high turnover
of qualified personnel.
(b)  The consultants will review and revise the recruiting
and promotion policy of CNR.
(c)  The consultants will review the distribution of staff
within the enterprise and recommend transfers of
personnel to increase efficiency.
(d)  The consultants will study the discipline, or lack of,
within CNR and the adherence to rules, especially with
regard to safety regulations, but including all
maldiscipline which affects the efficiency or quality
of operations.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
C.   Timing and Reporting
The consultants will adhere to the following schedule:
(a) Inception Report, one month after starting field work;
(b)  Draft Report, with recommendations, four months after
starting field work;
(c) Comments to be received from CNR and IBRD within 30
days thereafter;
(d) Final Report, six months after starting work;
(e) Sixty days after receiving the Final Report, CNR and
IBRD will agree on action to be implemented and on a
schedule of implementation;
(f)  The consultants will assist in implementing all recommenda-
tions during a six-month period with bimonthly progress
reporting. The magnitude of the team necessary for this
stage will be determined during the period mentioned in
section C (e) preceding.
D.   General
The consultants will cooperate fully with CNR, which will, in turn,
give all possible assistance to the consultants, including counterpart per-
sonnel, office space, and other required assistance.
February 1973






ANNEX 3
BUENAVENTURA
K'                ~                 CARTAGO
ZARZAL  0                                              0   MEiiL L.KNM DELLIN
COLOMBIA
ol gD VJ     X                                              F I II :1,III                                      SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CEREIRA                                                                              TRACK REHABILITATION PROGRAM
CAL)                        '\I
POPAYAN0AMEA
UARMENIAE
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S                               ~~~~~~~~~~~Z   or
IBAGUE                                                                                                                                            04
a2                                                  LA)uE  A DORADA                                           =        W -LCHs
ESPINAALQ0  
.AIRES                            E        -        i                        -U
PB.BE,RIO-                       EL CRUCE
NEIVA                                                                                       IGRECIA)
RARBOSAV
v       ()~~FAGATATIVA                                                           BUABDACARAMANGA                            SC.).
Trffi. D.i.oty 1972
100 n t tonI par dcv I
0 -0                                                                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D_.iIn.nt D.-itv 1972
BOGOTA      LA C                                                                                            1 D-eilet Per km
In 1972... ...
BELENCITO                                                   ProjeCt 1973-74
SO.r.,: CNR
JanUary 19.1973                                                                                                                                                                                   WOld BInk-6535(R)






ANNEX 4
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A.   Major Assumptions
1.  Investment Plan
The Investment Plan was taken in 1972 prices exclusive of price
contingencies (but including physical contingencies). It was analyzed in
detail and a new investment plan was composed. This new investment includes
only those expenditures necessary to maintain the Santa Marta-Bogota line
(reference alternative) in operation. Details of this investment are given
in Table 1 of this annex. Increases of 10% and 5% and a decrease of 5% in
the investment cost were tested in the sensitivity analysis.
2.   Traffic Forecast
Traffic forecast for each year up to 1977 is given in Table 2 of
this annex; it has been assumed to remain constant from 1977 on, following
the assumption that further traffic increases will require further invest-
ments. If no investment is made at all, traffic will remain only on the
Santa Marta-Bogota line by 1977 and will amount to 750 million ton-km (Table
2 of this annex). If investment is implemented only on the above-mentioned
line, traffic in 1977 will amount to 900 million ton-km, while, if the In-
vestment Plan is implemented throughout the system, freight traffic will
reach 1,485 million ton-km in 1977 (Table 3 of this annex). In all reference
alternatives, traffic is maintained constant beyond 1977. A pessimistic
estimate of freight traffic was added and was based on a 3% traffic growth
(instead of 4.4%) per year. In this case, the level of 1,485 million ton-km,
defined as the capacity of the railway, is not reached before 1980, while the
level of traffic without investment is not changed. The traffic diverted and
the cost of diversion are correspondingly lower, as detailed in Table 2 of
this annex.
3.   Cost of Diversion
The cost of diverting freight traffic to road has been taken from
Table 4 of the report and refers to medium size trucks on paved roads with
average curvature and gradient and exclusive of maintenance and renewal of
roads. The total cost of diversion is the multiplication of total ton-km
diverted by a cost parameter of Col Pes 0.50 per ton-km.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.   Railway Freight Operating Cost
(a) Santa Marta-Bogota Line
If the investment contemplated on this line (Table 1 of this
annex) is implemented, operating railway cost per ton-km will
decrease from the current Col Pes 0.28 to Col Pes 0.25. If the
investment is not carried out, costs per ton-km are expected
to rise by about 2% annually, reaching a level of Col Pes 0.31
in 1977.
(b)  Overall System
The operating costs for the overall system with investment
were calculated on the basis of 1972 factor prices, exclusive
however, of all overhead expense and short run cost attribut-
able to the passenger traffic.
5.   Transshipment Cost
Traffic to be transshipped from rail to road, and vice versa if
only the Santa Marta-Bogota line is maintained, is composed of the long haul
traffic on the lines which feed, or are fed by, the Santa Marta-Bogota line.
The tons transshipped were calculated based on CNR origin/destination data
and further information contained in the report "Bank Operations in Colombia,
an Evaluation". The costs per transshipment were measured in 1971 at
Col Pes 21.1 per ton, and were adjusted to 1972 prices.
6.   Highway Maintenance Cost
The additional highway maintenance was computed by converting total
ton-km diverted from rail to truck-km and then, using average haul, to average
daily traffic increases.  The cost of highway maintenance is assumed to increase
by US$0.30 per km per year for each additional truck.
7.   Shadow Price of Foreign Exchange
Shadow price of foreign exchange was computed as 110% of current
rate of exchange. This price was applied to the foreign exchange component
of trucks (30%) and fully to the foreign exchange component of all investment
and materials expenditures on the railway.
8.   Concrete Sleepers
Total cost per unit in 1972 prices is Col Pes 277.6, while cost per
unit of wooden sleepers is Col Pes 112.5. Total savings in maintenance costs
are Col Pes 23,000 per km (1,666 sleepers per km). Total life of concrete
sleepers is at least 20 years, and that of wooden sleepers is about five years.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
9.  Hard Rails
Hard rails cost about 45% more than ordinary rails, but their life
in sharp curves is more than double.
10. Ballast Cars
The cost of ballast cars was taken at US$13,000 and gondola cars at
US$9,000. It was assumed that the alternative investment in the less expen-
sive gondola cars will not be necessary before 1977. Furthermore, three workers
will be needed per gondola car at a cost of Col Pes 1,160 per month per worker
(unskilled workers), weighted by a 33% shadow wage rate.
11. Locomotives
The unit cost of locomotives to be delivered in 1974 under the con-
tract with the Spanish manufacturer is US$255,000, while market price of
those units will be at least US$375,000 in 1977. The cost of maintenance per
locomotive is about US$10,000 per year, and was deducted from the benefit
stream.
12. Trucks and Trailers
Traffic currently carried by private trucks for CNR for combination
road/rail transport is as follows:
(a) Barranquilla-Cienaga, 296 tons per day at total cost of
Col Pes 0.86 per ton-km;
(b) Ibague-Arnmenia, 355 tons per day at total cost of
Col Pes 0.75 per ton-km.
The costs for CNR in operating its own trucks were computed as Col Pes 0.52
per ton-km and are based on the financial operating cost of large trucks. The
equipment for the Cartagena-Cienaga section was not taken into account (both
cost and benefits) because road/rail transport is not yet effective in this
section.
B.   Methodology
1.        As a first step, the investment required for the Santa Marta-Bogota
line alone was determined. This investment, which is computed in 1972 prices,
is described in detail in Table 1 of this annex. The benefits of this invest-
ment yield a 13% economic rate of return (cost and benefit streams are shown
in Table 2 of this annex). The main benefits of the investment on the line,
also computed in 1972 prices, stem from reduction in operating costs per unit
of traffic and avoidance of diversion of traffic to road. Road costs are
Col Pes 0.50 per ton-km while rail costs were Col Pes 0.28 per ton-km in 1972
and are expected to be less than Col Pes 0.25 in 1977.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
2.        In the next stage of the analysis, two alternatives were compared:
(a) maintaining the present railway system exclusive of lines to be
closed (para. 3.13) and enabling the railway to carry all
freight traffic forecast (1,485 million ton-km in 1977);
(b)  maintaining only the Santa Marta-Bogota line (969 km), which
carries about 60% of total railway traffic. This line was
chosen as a reference alternative because of its undoubted
viability: its density is very high (738,000 ton-km per km
in 1972 and 928,000 ton-km per km expected in 1977); its
traffic is long haul and the operating costs clearly
demonstrate its viability (Col Pes 0.28 or US; 1.3 per ton-km
in 1972 and Col Pes 0.25 or USi 1.1 per ton-km expected in
1977).
The comparison is based on measuring the freight traffic transport
costs (exclusive of overhead) under the two alternatives and takes into
account operating as well as investment costs in both cases, all measured in
1972 prices. The comparison of the two alternatives shows that maintaining
the present system requires higher investments and results in higher operat-
ing costs (in the reduced system, 60% of the traffic can be carried at 48%
of operating cost), while the net benefits are derived from avoidance of:
(i) higher road operating costs: (ii) higher road maintenance cost; and (iii)
transshipment cost. The economic rate of return on the additional investment
is 11% and is considered satisfactory (details of cost and benefit streams are
shown in Table 3 of this annex).
3.        The economic rate of return is underestimated for the following
reasons:
(a) The better quality of service to traffic already moving on the
railways (i.e., increase in user surplus) was not quantified.
(b) It is likely that road carriers will be unable to absorb in time
all traffic diverted from the railways, and some temporary loss
of transport capacity will emerge; this loss also was not
quantified.
tc) Rail traffic has been assumed constant beyond 1977.
C.   Sensitivity Analysis
1.        Some of the assumptions underlying the variables affecting the
economic rate of return on the investment were tested. The results obtained
are as follows:
(a) If investment costs are 10% higher than expected without any
compensating effect on the benefit streams, the economic rate



AMEX 4
Page 5
of return is still acceptable at 10.3%. If they are 5% higher,
the return is 11.1% and if they are 5% lower, the return is
13%.
(b) If railway operating costs are 5% higher than expected (in
real terms), the economic rate of return is reduced to 10.1%
while, if they can be further reduced by 5%, the return would
be 13.9%.
(c) If traffic grows at only 3% per year, against 4.4% in the past,
the capacity of the existing equipment will not be fully utilized
before 1980, instead of 1977 as presently expected. The economic
rate of return will decrease to 9%.
2.        The current exchange rate of the Colombian currency is representative
of its relative scarcity, and the maximum shadow exchange rate that should be
considered is 110%. The use of this exchange rate, which affects both costs
(investment and railway operating cost) and benefits (highway operating cost),
yields a rate of return of 11.6% on the Investment Plan, showing the insensi-
tivity of the return to shadow prices of foreign exchange.
July 1973






ANNEX 4
TABLE 1
COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PDJECT
Investment Required on the Line Santa Marta-Bogota in the Period 1973-76 -
1973                  1974                1975                 1976
Col Pes (000)         Col Pes (000)       Col Pes (oo0)        Col Pes (000)
Item                Local    Foreign      Local    Foreign    Local   Foreign       Local   Foreign
Track rehabilitation               -          -          -          -       10,992    18,420        -         -
Concrete sleepers                13,133     10,916     25,256     20,991    53,544    44,503     53,544    44,503
Infrastructure and bridges        2,079        157      2,538      6,774     3,321    12,030      1,476       -
Ballastirg and resleepering       3,960       -         3,960       -        5,940       -        10,560      -
Aluminotlermic weldirg             -          -         1,381      3,074     2,496      5,568      5,290    11,776
Other /                            -         8,805       -        35,615      -         5,918       -        7,600
Total Permanent Way         19,172     19,878     33,135     66,454    76,293    86,439      70,870    63,879
Diesel locomotives                 -          -          -          -
Spares for locomotives             -          -          -        40,815       -       20,369       -       20,369
Spares for freight cars            -          -          -          -         -          -          -         -
Workshop equipment                 -          -          -           -       10,908     4,996     14,544     3,994
Total Mechanical              -          -          -        40,815    10,908    25,365      14,544    24,363
Statiorn  and yards                -          -          -          -
Warehouses                          175       -           -          _        1,754      -           702      -
Handling equipment                 -          -          -         2,045       -        5,809       -        3,631
Trucks and trailers                -          -          -        12,869      -          -                    -
Containers                         -          -                                -        4,390            -
Total Operatiors               175       -          -        14,914     1,754    10,199         702     3,631
Dwellirg                            175       -         1,754       -        1,754       -           263      -
Telecommunications                1,200       -         2,700     10,997     1,800    43,400       5,400    56,612
Consulting services               6,720     18,600      6,010     13,985     6,010    11,981       5,286     7,189
Winter damages                     -          -          -           -
Sub-Total                   27,442     38,478     43,599    147,165    98,519   177,384      97,065   155,674
Physical contingencies              549        180        872      1,472     1,970      1,774      1,941     1,557
Total                       27,991     38,658     44,471    148,637   100,489   179,158      99,006   157,231
1/ For comparison with overall investment plan please refer to Table 13.
2/ Composed of switches, hard rail, maintenance equipment, ballast crushers and ballast cars.
March 1973



ANNECx 4
COLOMBIA                                             TABLE 2
SIXTH RAILWAY PFOJECT
Situation With and Without Investment* on the Santa Marta-Bogota Line
1973      1974      1975       1976       1977     1978-92
Traffic with investment (million ton-km)              752        787       824        862       900         900
Traffic without investment (million ton-km)           750        740       730        715       700         700
Diversion (million ton-km)                              2         47        94        147       200         200
Diversion cost (in Col Pes million)                     1.0       23.5      47.0       73.5     100.0       100.0
Operating cost with investmrent (in Col Pes
0.01 per ton-km)                                     28.37      27.44     26.51     25.58      24.64       24.64
Operating cost without investment (in Col Pes
0.01 per ton-kin)                                    28.37     28.94      29.52     30.11      30.71       30.71
Total operating cost with investment (in Col Pes
million)                                            213.3      216.0     218.4      220.5     221.8       221.8
Total operating cost without investment (in Col
Pes million)                                        212.8      214.2     215.5      215.3     215.0       215.0
Difference (in Col Pes million)                         0.5        1.8       2.9        5.2       6.8         6.8
Highway maintenance cost (in Col Pes million)           0.7        1.4       2.2        3.0       3.8         3.8
Net investment (in Col Pes million)                    41.1      159.9     257.0      243.6
* Investment is computed exclusive of trucks, containers and consultirg services.
March 1973



ANNEX 4
TABLE 3
COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAIIWAY PROJECT
Parameters and Coet and Benefit Streams in the Economic Analysis*
(In 1972 prices)
1973      1974       1975      1976      1977       1978       1979       1980      1981-92
A. Normal Traffic Growth
Traffic with investment - test
estimate                               1,240     1,305      1,370     1,440    1,485        1,485     1,485      1,485      1,485
Traffic without irnestment - best
estimate                               1,18o     1,110      1,040        970      900         900       900        900        900
Diversion to road (in million
ton-ikn)                                  60       195        330       470       585         585       585        585        585
Diversion cost (in Col Pes million)         30.0       97.5     115.0      235.0    292.5       292.5      292.5     292.5      292.5
Operating cost with investment -
best estimate                           -466.6    -451.4    -454.5    -458.4   -464.9        -464.9   -464.9    -464.9    -464.9
Operating cost without investment -
best estimate                            444.0      407.0     370.0      332.9    295.9       258.9     221.8      221.8      221.8
Difference (in Col Pes million)           -226.0      -44.4     -84.5    -125.5   -169.0       -206.0   -243.1   -243.1    -243.1
Tons transshipped to road without
investment (in 000)                      1145      472        799     1,138    1,417       1,417      1,417      1,417      1,417
Cost of transshipment (in Col Pes
million)                                   3.5       11.4      19.2       27.4     34.1        34.1      34.1       34.1       34.1
Additional highway maintenance
without investment                         0.9        1.8       2.7        3.6      4.6         4.6        4.6       4.6        4.6
B. Slow Traffic Growth
Traffic with investment                  1,215     1,252      1,289      1,328    1,368       1,409     1,451      1,485      1,485
Traffic without investment               1,180     1,110      1,040        970      900         900       900        900        900
Diversion to road (in million ton-
ion)                                      35       142 C      249        358      468         509       551        585        585
Diversion cost                              17.5       71.0     124.5      179.0    234.0       254.5      275.5     292.5       292.5
Operatirg cost with investment            -464.1    -446.1    -446.4    -447.2  -453.2         -457.3    -461.5    -464.9    -464.9
Operating cost without investment          444.0      407.0     370.0      332.9    295.9       258.9      221.8     221.8       221.8
Difference (in Col Pes million)            -20.1      -39.1     -76.4    -114.3   -157.3       -198.4    -239.7    -234.1    -234.1
Tons transshipped to road without
investment (in 000)                       85       344        603        867    1,134       1,233     1,335      1,417      1,417
Cost of transEhipment (in Col Pes
million)                                   2.0        8.3      14.5       20.9     27.3        29.7       32.1      34.1        34.1
Additional highway maintenance -
without irvestment (in Col Pes
million)                                   0.5        1.0       1.6        2.2      2.8         3.4        4.0       4.6         4.6
C.  Invrestment Ccet
Investment "with"                          294.6      560.8     444.5      349.8
Investment "without"                        66.6      193.1     279.6      256.2
Difference (in Col Pes million)           -228.0    -367.7    -164.9       -93.6
* All - signs indicate costs or negative ber.efits.
March 1973



ANIEX 4
TABLE 4
COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAIIWAY PROJECT
Locomotive Requirements and Availability 1973-1977*
1973        1974        1975        1976        1977
1.  Freight traffic, million tkm                         1,240       1,305      1,370        1,440       1,485
2.  Average load per train, ton 1/                          220         222       225          227         230
3.  Freight train km, million:  (1): (2)                 5.636       5,878      6.089        6.344       6.1457
4. Passenger traffic, million pass km                      250         240        240          235         235
5.  Passengers per train, equivalent 2/                     160         160        160          160         160
6.  Passenger train kim, million:  (4) : (5)             1.563       1.500      1.500        1,469       1.469
7.  Total train krn:(3) + (6)                            7,199       7.378      7,589        7.813       7.926
8.  Locomotive km per locomotive, 000                       83          84         84           86          86
9.  Total locomotives far traffic: (7) : (8)                87           88        90           91           92
10.  Locomotives in yards                                     19          19         19           19          19
11.  Locomotives for maintenance                              25          25         25           25          25
12. Locomotives under or awaiting repair                      21          20         20           20          20
13.  Total locomotives:(9) + (10) + (11) + (12)
required                                             152         152        154          155         156
114. Availability /100% - (12) : (13)7                        86          87         87           87          87
15.  Locomotives  in stock (diesel) at beginning
of year                                             146         158        167          167         154
16.  Scrapping of locomotives                                  2 3/       --         --            5 4/       12 4/
17.  Locomotive purchases                                     14          14         ---                      -
18.  Total locomotives in fleet                              158         172        172          162         150
* Not including steam locomotives.
1/ It takes account of seasonal traffic variations.
2/ It includes both mixed and passenger trains.
3/ Two locomotives of 400 hp, 26 years old.
27/ Locomotives of 1,200 hp, 20 years old.
February 1973



COLOMBIA                                                                     ANNEX 4
CHART 1
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
1970 Railway Operating Costs
(Excluding Overheads) by Section
RAILWAY
OPERATING
COSTS                                                          Cost data taken from CNR
Col ./tkm
250
225         2                                                                                                                 _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _
200       3 __   ____________-                                                           RAILWAY SECTION BY INCREASING EFFICIENCY
1. Cantago - Pereira - Manizales A-Arenia
2. La Caro 'Barrosa
For closure or extensive rational'ization                                                       3. Cali - Popayan
4. Bogota - El SdIto.1
175   -                                                  . _                                                      5. Espinal - Ne-v
6. Facatativa - Espinal
7. Puerto Wilches - Bucaramanga
40 6185 S. Zaral - Armenia
ADJUSTED CURVE: Cost=  1305.5 x traffic densit  019. Medelin -A.Lopez
e  80>  corlto  ,                     .                                                             10. Bogota -Belencito
150             OA87    correlation by                                                                         -1 11 Espinal - lbague               _
1     least squares method)                                                                            12. Zarzal-A. Lopez
13. La Dorada -Buenos Aires
14. Bogota - Puerto Salgar
15. Fsrndancnn - Saeta Marta
16. Puerto Berio - Medellin
125                                                                                                              17. Cali - Buenavnotara
18. Cal, - Zarzal
19. Gamarra - Fundacion
20. Puerto Salgar - Puerto Berio
21. Puerto Berm  - Gumarra
100
t     s8r,,d,guna .tt high tomins cet
6         0 8
500                               ___ _              _ _
019
100          200             300            400           500             600          .700            800            900          1, 000
TRAFFIC DENSITY (000) tkcm/route km
W1rld Bark6- Brd(4R)






ANNEX 5
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Main Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan
1.        About 62% of the proposed loan would be used to finance materials
and equipments directly related to the permanent way. This reflects the
emphasis given to track rehabilitation. Another important item (15%) concerns
parts for rolling stock. Table 15 shows the breakdown of the proposed list
of goods.
2.  Materials for Track Rehabilitation 1/
This covers the foreign exchange component of the track materials,
mainly rails, sleepers, joint bars and fastenings. Annex 3 shows the location
of the various sections to be rehabilitated under the Project, which have been
selected according to traffic and actual physical condition of the track, as
reflected by the number of derailments. No work is to be performed on un-
economic lines.
3.   Switches
On the lines to be rehabilitated, 530 old switches should be re-
placed. They are difficult and expensive to maintain and are causing an in-
creasing number of derailments. As 300 switches are on hand, financed under
Loan 551-CO, the proposed loan covers only the balance of 230 switches.
4.   Concrete Ties
There is a chronic shortage of good wooden ties in Colombia, forest
enterprises easily finding more attractive markets for first quality timber.
In some of the tropical areas, mainly near the coasts, local timber does not
last more than a few years, even when adequately treated. A study made by
Consultants (SOFRERAIL) in 1968 recommended the use of concrete as a substitute
on the flat sections. This would not only solve the timber shortage problem
but would also allow the welding of rails, thereby eliminating many joints
and reducing maintenance costs. About 7% of the loan would be used for pur-
chasing imported fastenings. The concrete ties will be produced locally and
will not be financed by the proposed loan.
1/   A total of 364 km is to be rehabilitated during the Project period,
but some materials are on hand (Polish rails and remainder of Loan
551-CO).



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.   Track Maintenance Equipment
About 9% of the loan is to be used for financing various machines,
such as ballast crushers, ballast tampers, rail lubricators, and a number of
smaller equipments for mechanical track maintenance. A start was made toward
mechanization under the preceding loan to CNR but much remains to be done in
this field, which leads to substantial savings in maintenance costs and, at
the same time, increases track stability and safety.
6.   Infrastructure Improvements and Bridge Reinforcement
Strengthening of earthworks is required after heavy rainfalls and
landslides, especially in the hilly part of the network and alongside the
rivers. Most of the earthmoving equipment in use dates back to the construc-
tion of the Atlantic line and is uneconomical to maintain: spares are costly
and difficult to obtain; down time is too long. About 5% of the loan would
be used to replace outdated equipment by modern bulldozers, mechanical shovels,
etc. Several bridges need strengthening in order to operate double-headed
trains hauled by the new diesel locomotives. About 1% of the loan will serve
to purchase steel channels for this work.
7.   Ballast Cars
The specialized cars presently used for transporting ballast do not
cover the needs of the track rehabilitation works, and ordinary commercial
vehicles are also used for this purpose. These cars are not well suited to
spreading the ballast and could be used more economically for goods traffic.
Fifty new ballast cars would be purchased during the Project, with about 3%
of the loan amount.
8.   Parts for Rolling Stock
This is a major item in the proposed loan, representing about 15%
of its total. It would finance much needed subassemblies for diesel loco-
motives (such as complete engines, generators, traction motors, etc.) in order
to cut repair time and thereby improve utilization.  At present, a locomotive
with a faulty component is frequently immobilized during the time needed for
its repair, whereas, by replacing the subassembly, it could rapidly be reverted
to normal service. These parts, worth about US$1.4 million, would be procured
from the original US supplier. Part of the amount under this heading would
also finance bogies, brake equipment, roller bearings, etc. for major overhauls
and upgrading of existing freight cars. This is the continuation of a program
started by CNR consultants in 1969 and which has shown good returns. In par-
ticular, most of the freight cars would have been fitted with roller bearings
by the end of the Project, with consequently reduced maintenance costs and
immobilization.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
9. Freight Handling Equipment
One crane would be bought for handling heavy consignments, at a
cost of about 0.7% of the loan.
10. Telecommunications
A limited amount (about 5% of the loan), would be used for expanding
and modernizing telecommunication facilities, and for purchasing telephone
wire. This represents the minimum compatible with reasonable operations effi-
ciency. Much more is to be done, especially for signalling, but has been t
postponed beyond the Project period on account of the present difficult finan-
cial situation.
11. Consulting Services
As explained in the report (paras. 3.03 and 4.04), consulting serv-
ices are considered essential for the implementation of the Project. Consult-
ants are in the field and perform well. Their team is to be reduced progres-
sively over the next three to four years and about 7% of the loan would cover
the foreign exchange cost of their services during the Project period.
12. Winter Damages
The 1970 winter was exceptionally severe, causing a number of major
landslides and floodings. The roadbed suffered extensive damages, resulting
in numerous traffic interruptions. Government has already provided some local
funds for momentary repairs but permanent protection requires special machinery,
mainly earthmoving equipment, which has to be imported. About 5% of the loan
would be used to this end.
June 1973






ANNEX 6
OOLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PWDJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                              Cunulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                    at End of Quarter
US$ million
1974
Ist 
2nd                                                  4.5
3rd                                                  7.5
4th                                                 11.0
1975
Ist                                                 15.0
2nd                                                 23.0
3rd                                                 25.0
These estimates are made under the assumption that the proposed
loan is approved in July 1973.
June 1973






ANNEX 7
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Principal Assumptions - Financial Forecasts
The financial forecasts are based on the following principal assumptions:
1.   The best estimates of freight and passenger traffic
(paras. 4.01 and 4.02; Annex 4 Table 4).
2.   Increases in staff costs in accordance with the recent
agreementcoveringa 30-month period from January 1973;
increases of about 10% in both 1976 and 1977.
3.   Increase in material prices by 8% each year during
1973-1977.
4.   No increase in staff strength.  Reduction in staff and
maintenance costs from 1974 because of track mechanization,
reduction of derailments and other improvements following
the implementation of investments.
5.   Rates and fares prevailing in June 1973 taken into account
and freight revenues at these rates shown in Table 16,
which also shows additional revenues due to freight tariff
increases. These increase are: selective increases so as
to yield an increase (in current terms) of average revenue
per ton-km of 12.5% in January 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977.
Selective passenger fare increases of 10% in January 1974
and 1976 are assumed. If staff costs and prices increase
beyond the levels referred to in steps 2 and 3 above,
further adjustments would be made to compensate the higher
costs to the extent that such costs cannot be offset by
lower expenses or greater traffic than included in the
forecasts.
6.   Results of revaluation of fixed assets not anticipated.
7.   Foreign exchange rate of US$1 - Col Pes 22.5.
8.   Terms of existing debts, including suppliers' credit and
related arrangements already made with respect to 28 diesel
locomotives and spares.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
9.   The proposed IBRD loan of US$25.0 million equivalent with an
interest rate of 7.25% per annum and repayment in 25 years
including a four-year grace period.
10.   A loan to CNR from a US commercial bank of US$20 million with
the debt service obligation thereof assumed by Government.
Such debt service obligations are not included in the forecasts.
11.   A Col Pes 85 million loan from local banks to CNR, with the
debt service obligations thereof assumed by Government. Such
debt service obligations are not included in the forecasts.
12.   Government to provide funds as required by CNR, through a
"Project Fund.It Government contribution to the "Project Fund"
will amount to Col Peas 128 million annually in 1973, 1974 and
1975 (in addition to Col Pes 90 million already provided by
Government during 1973).
13.   Government will continue to cover debt service payments with
respect to Bank loans 68-CO, 119-CO and 267-CO.
June 1973



IBRD 3667R
S. AMERICA
.....  ;   .}  ...........   -            ktec*nq iSr   /\C~i6naga                                   
-   -}  .   .   - ..  ..  4               @           Fundocicn  ......................   ./ i                   -
.Cartagen\
-   -  v    J                      ,           \|>~~~~~~~~~Charnpan 
<,  44  >   - X                                    >   |                             \ ~VENFZUELA
Puerto    El Cruce
ucarcmanga \______
.*rr:ncabermela
Bolombol                                          Barboso          Paz del
a                   Rio
-Belencito
Siar -1 -Son. juerto                                                  unia
o-     -      ?                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Alejonclro|  La Docad  cSalgar  
'@PO >'''              .              ','':,  ,tA'  '.,,.  ; ,''Z ipaquirAI
t4 .   X-     \                           )/  ManizaleM  (ines
t b v   - -   >9   |   CartagoJS                                           linesro
f r r  .  7    -  - *   Za rza;   rme la    /           /    0 >~~~~~~~~OGOT                      Th, b-udarie showo thi tp dn -t
+3~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rei iol  ,i.- ii.                                                                                   ,,Pt,, by .th,SnaucaBu
buet.L o c o eensvenrat.tinal zaion
;veo<s  -  ';  -    -    Benaven-ur
A 28  ' 8 '  8   ' ''  j    t_ / Palm~~~        ~       ~~~ira. 
8A^''' A.'< '.   '   ;  '. ' /  Yumas  radera          r
r  . .          - i        ~~~~~~Timba                        So5n,
v .:  :  -  :  g         ~~~~su&rez2~     arSatander      ignacio
r;-l aJ 0 / ~~~~~~~Neiva                                                           COLOMBIA
- . . g                       ~~~bPoaa                                 NA-TIONAL RAILROADS
uracIa                                                                                                    Main lines
0E  Divso                                                                                               Secondary lines
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...... ... Lines for closure or extensive rationalization
0      50      100     150     20C    250
ECUAD  RRivers
ECUADO R                                            76-                                                                      7 -






IBRD 3704R1
76P                                                              14.          MARCH   1973
COLOMCflIA    : >                 Carribbean            Seo
SOUTH AMERtCA                                                                                       Ri  ho
Ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iC
4                               Cartageso              Marto
e   /   f                                s~~~~~~~~~ARRANQUILyA    L    ienaga              /          
t  /}  .   4    tg                       < /  4 ltrafid           ~~~~~~~~~~~Valledupar  t          
Si cerin    La Estacia
<                                     5 j     H        v m z r          .                                / *        )~~~~~~~t.Bo:on
Snon Oof eo :              Di ficil s Becerr'l6   |       -       .    4 orocaibo 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B cer I                      I 
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ><i SajR, 0..
Toj  eianu
>,  f$r  ..... )<            XCeret6llit                       e    e   i 1-              i   %     > E L A    -   .   . .....  u
Tot            9     San R~~~~~Sn  lbrt
Bontero Ba  l
-~~~~~~~~~~~~ar 4$ag 9 -EELI
. t   0   <g   PrimaseraW  DELLIN  fi   G ori
A ~    ~     aolcb                                                                         1 > cej  L   no   2PByc   / \ g geect
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                       G I  T                                   t  
-    S      ~~La Uniong :4  eni    Ibgu                       esr           aa
V  l l aOviSce n c
LGomite
ti   8uetasventuraA4EI Pallon j /   /t )              , La U       mplon
Puerto W      aniMarte
Yum ow-eTien anueva             J
Barranca /r CCL-aCOLOMBIA
P         f>>Puerto Tejada IYTRANSPORTATION  NETWORK
:  r    I / I                 V                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paved highways
/    . /                1t                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Unpaved highways
\ . - Altamira.~~~4                                               .....R..................Ongoing paving project
Tunw,ca          .-           ~~~Pitalitocf  X0 lrec                                   -- urta--o- - --  |  Roilways
Hatil                    Be .C.4FlorenOil pipeline5
/)  >   <       yg                 ~~Belen ,.-   -;                                                  Rivers
"".  Tuqu  Pasta                          dMontanitaoque        rri
N                      re\cc gal                                                           0      SO      100    150    200
-    _  gIpia les                            The boundaries thown on this nun do not      -      ILMEER
Qj            imy endoneme.nt    or stepeosce hy  tihe                          K ITE
ECUADi R .>Woetd Bok sod its offi intei
ECUADQR\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zz                                 ego    a 



