Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A,4 /1. 2 > )J-- 
Report No. 6189-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
November 24, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency - RMB Yuan (Y)
US$1.00 = Y 3.70
Y 1.00 = US$0.27
Y 1.00 = 100 fen
(As of September 1986)
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
km         -    Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh        -    Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcals)
GWh        -    Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh        -    Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours'
kW         -    Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW         -    Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kV         -    Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA        -    Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes
MVA        -    Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
TPD        -    Ton per day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ECEPA   - East China Electric Power Administration
ECHIDI  -  East China Hydroelectric Power Investigation and Design Institute
ECG     -  East China Grid
FPEPB   -  Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
FPFB    -  Fujian Provincial Finance Bureau
PPG     -  Fujian Provincial Grid
FTPS    -  Fuzhou Thermal Power Station
GOC     -  Government of China
GPF     -  Government of the Province of Fujian
GVIAO   -  Gross Value of Industrial and Agricultural Output
HIPDC   -  Huaneng International Power Development Corporation
IAEA    -  International Atomic Energy Agency
MKE     -  Morrison Knudsen Engineering Company
MOP     -  Ministry of Finance
MOR     -  Minsitry of Railways
MWREP   -  Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PCBC    -  People's Construction Bank of China
SAA     -  State Audit Administration
SBC     -  Special Board of Consultants
SEC     -  State Economic Commission
SHPC    -  Shuikou Hydroelectric Project Corporation
SPC     -  State Planning Commission
TCC     -  Technical Cooperation Credit
WREPERI -  Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.THE ENERGY SECTOR,. ..
I. T..EEGY..TR..........O....O.....O.....................            1
A. ............ .......... ................ ............    1
B* Resource Endowment.... 00         ........... ........... *  ; ...    2
C.  Efficiency of Energy Use ...............      ...........    2
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR.......................................         3
A.  Background ...................0..*. .000.0000.0.o.......e 000    3
B. The Market for Electricity...............................    4
C. Institutions .................................... 4
D.  Tariffs0.0..............................., 0000000  000**00.0......... 5
E. Manpower and Training  ........ .............                  5
F.  Planning.00   ...0..0.000000...00000...0000000....00..0000..00000...000000000....
G.  Technology Transfer  ............................... .   7
H.  Subsector Problems ..............................0.......    7
I.  Subsector Objectives and Policies.*.*#...................    8
J. Role of the Bank .........................................     9
III.  THE BENEFICIARY   .        ...O...............                   10
A. Legal Status and Organization ............................    10
S.Baaetet................................... 10
C.  Staffing and ........................................... .   11
E.   Accounting .o.* ,.****...........e...........s..............e.......   12
F.  Audit*.................................................   13
G.  Tariffs                                      ........ .      13
H.  Billing and .........................00000000009000000000   14
I.  Computer Applications and Information Management00.....0.   15
J.  Insurance*....                ....     ............   15
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal carried out during
February 14 to March 8, 1986, by C.K. Chandran, W. Cao, R. Morton, A.
Liebenthal, I.H. Cheng and M. Cernea and a follow up mission in September 1986
by C.K. Chandran, W. Cao, R. Morton and I.H. Cheng. The following consultants
participated: A. Raizen and D. Graybill.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Page No.
IV.  THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM-.*..* .....................   16
A. The East China Grid......................................   16
B. The Fujian Power Grid....................................   16
Co Load Forecast ...............o.............................   18
D. The 1986-1995 Power Development Program..................   19
V.  THE PROJECTo...............................................,o   21
A. Project Objectiveso...... o. o........o. . o.....*.....o.... . ..oo    21
B. Project Description..................................... ..........  21
C. Cost Estimate............................................o  25
D. Financing Plan..   ...........................................*   26
E.  Procurementaton........o....o.o..o...................oooo    27
. Projet Implementation ............................................   29
Co Disbursemental Apets...oo..o.................o.............o   31
H.  Resettlementgo ........................... ..o....o.........   32
I Environmental Aspects ............................................... 36
Jo Monitoring and Reporting ......o..o......o.ooooo...o.o..o..e.....   37
K.   Riskso  o.ooooo..oooooo...oooooo..oooo......ooo....ooo..  38
B. Past and Present Financial Performance...................   39
CA  Future Finances .............................0.............   40
VIIo  ....................U..... oo.ooooo o.ooo...ooooo.oo6..oo.....    45
A. Need for the Project.....................................   45
B. Least Cost Studieso.......................................o  45
C. Economic Rate of Return..........................o..... ..... 47
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMHENDATIONSo.o..o..oo.oooo .....   48



- iii 
ANNEXES
1. Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation and Sales in the Power
Subsector
2. Electricity Generation by Region and by Type of Plant
3. Performance Indicators for FPEPB
4. Staffing of FPEPB
5.  FPEPB's Existing Training Facilities and Expansion Program
6. Electricity Tariff of FPEPB (1985)
7.  Installed Capacity, Generation and Energy Sales of FPEPB
8. Energy Consumption by Category of Customers
9. Development Programs of East China Grid and Fujian Province
10. Development Planning of Min River Basin
11. Salient Physical Features of the Project
12. Terms of Reference and Program for Studies of Regional Integrated
Operation
13. Cost Estimate by Category and Purpose
14. Annual Distribution of Expenditures
15. Procurement Schedules
16. Schedule of Disbursement
17. Resettlement Plan and Environmental Actions for Monitoring and
Reporting
18. FPEPB's Financial Statements (1981-85)
19. FPEPB's Financial Forecasts (1986-95)
20. Assumptions to Financial Projections
21. ECEPA's Key Financial Indicators (1981-85)
22. Economic Evaluation of Railway Relocation Component
23. Economic Rate of Return
24. Least Cost Studies for ECG
25. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Organization of the Electric Power Industry Within MWREP
2. Organization of FPEPB
3. Project Implementation Schedule
MAPS
1. Link with East China Grid (IBRD 19561)
2. Scheme of Min Jiang Valley Development (IBRD 19562)
3. Fujian Power Grid (IBRD 19563)



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:               Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau (FPEPB)
Amount:                    $140.0 million equivalent
Terms:                     20 years, including five years grace, at standard
variable interest rate
Onlending Terms:           The proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the
Government to FPEPB under a subsidiary loan agree-
ment with a 20 year term, including five years of
grace and at an interest rate of 8.5% p.a. The
foreign exchange risk (between the dollar and RMB)
and commitment fees would be borne by FPEPB.
Project Objectives         The project seeks to support economic growth in East
and Descriptions:        China and Fujian province through development of a
major hydroelectric site on the Min river. The
project would be the Bank's first involvement in the
power subsector in Fujian province, and the fifth
Bank loan to the power subsector in China. It would
help to:. (a) develop a major hydro site to serve
primarily as a peaking station in the East China
Grid; (b) effectively introduce the most modern
technology available for speedy construction of a
large dam and power station; (c) link the East China
and Fujian systems and promote more effective
integrated operation of a major regional grid; and
(d) provide training in management of international
contracts for large civil works and in financial
management. The project comprises the construction
of a 101 m high concrete gravity dam, a spil way, a
powerhouse and a navigation lock; provision and
installation of seven generating units of 200 KW
each; construction of a single-circuit 500 kV trans-
mission line and installation of equipment at an
associated substation; provision of consulting
services for design and construction management; the
resettlement of the reservoir area population and a
program for its economic and social reestablishment;
and carrying out of studies and a training program.



- ii -
Benefits:                  The project will provide a dependable capacity of
1,000 MS to meet the peak demand for the combined
East China and Fujian provincial grids and generate
4,950 CWh annually on the average. Indirect
benefits include the improvement of navigational
conditions on the Min river, and the expansion of
the capacity of the Waiyang-Fuzhou railway.
Risks:                     The geological conditions are very good, investi-
gations have been thorough, and engineering compe-
tent. There is an inherent risk of delay because of
the sixe of the project and its long gestation
period but arrangements wjade for construction have
reduced it to a minimum.
Estimated Costs: /a
Local     Foreign      Total
---- Q( million) 
Preparatory work                            19.9       2.9        22.8
Resettlement                               100.5        -        100.5
Civil works                                 59.7     139.4       199.1
Metal works                                  9.8       3.8        13.6
Electrical and mechanical works             71.8      80.9       152.8
Transmission lines                          30.4      25.0        55.4
Engineering and construction supervision   7.8        10.9        18.7
Administration                              10.5        -         10.5
studies and training                         0.5       1.0         1.5
Total Base Costs /b                    310.8      264.0       574.8
Contingencies
Physical                                 27.7       23.1       50.8
Price                                   118.8      111.4      230.2
Total Project Cost: /b                 457.3      398.5      855.8
Interest During Construction
IBRD loan                                  -        72.7       72.7
Other loans                              83.2       76.1       159.3
Total Financing Requiredt /b           540.5      547.3   1j087.8
/a  The project will be eempt from import duties and taxes.
rb  Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- ifii
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign      Total
---(US-$ milliron) -
IBRD loan                                       -       140.0       140.0
Foreign exchange loan(s) to be arranged         -       260.0       260.0
Local bank loan(s)                           540.5      147.3       687.8
Total                                     540.5      547.3    12087.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                         1987       1988       1989       1990       1991
…---- - -- (Us$ million) -------
Annual                             4.0       24.0       28.0       36.0       48.0
Cumulative                         4.0       28.0       56.0       92.0      140.0
Economic Rate of Return: 15X



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.01      China is the fourth largest producer and third largest consumer of
commercial energy in the world. Coal is by far the most important source of
energy in China, accounting for some 75% of its commercial energy consump-
tion. Oil production has increased rapidly over the last three decades to
become an important source of both commercial energy and export earnings,
representing about 18% and 22% of the respective totals. Some 25% of oil pro-
duction and 1% of coal production are currently exported. Natural gas (2%),
hydroelectric power (5%) and limited quantities of shale oil and geothermal
power make up the balance of commercial energy. Non-commercial energy
resources supply energy equivalent to about one third of commercial produc-
tion.
1.02      China's achievement in developing its energy resources over the last
three decades has been remarkable. The annual production of coal has
increased from some 60 million tons in 1952 to 850 million tons in 1985.
During the same period, annual oil production increased from 0.1 million tons
to 125 million tons, and annual electricity generation increased from 9Out
7.3 TWh to 407 TWh. Nevertheless, the recent economic report on China- has
concluded that the rate of growth of energy supplies could constitute a
constraint on the achievement of the Government's target of quadrupling the
Gross Value of Industrial and Agricultural Output (GVIAO) during the period
from 1980 to 2000. Basically, the limitations on the supply of energy will
necessitate an adjustment in the projected targets of manufacturing and
services sector growth in the light of their different energy requirements.
In addition, to avoid a potential constraint on economic development, it will
be necessary for the country to increase coal production beyond current
targets for the year 2000 and meet at least the official output targets set
for other types of energy resources as well as obtain extensive improvements
in the efficiency of energy use. The achievement of these targets will
require the modernization of technology and management throughout the energy
sector, increased commitment of financial resources, and a strengthening of
planning and coordination among the diverse components of the energy sector
and also of the transportation sector. In addition, serious subsectoral
constraints which exist in various aspects of technology, logistics,
management and incentives need to be overcome.
1/   China:  Long Term Issues and Options, World Bank Report No. 5206-CHA, May
1985.



1.03      The Government, in its Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85), accorded high
priority to the development of the two inter-related sectors, energy and
transport, and these objectives are being further emphasized in the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (1986-90). The Bank has taken an active role in support of the
Government's development objectives and formulation of a coherent sectoral
strategy through economic and sector work as well as its lending operations.
B. Resource Endowment
1.04      China is well endowed with primary energy.  Coal and lignite
reserves are concentrated in the north and northeast, which have about 70% of
the total recoverable reserves (700 billion tons). Future plans call for
increasing coal production significantly, but difficult transport (essentially
a shortage of railroad capacity) appears to be a serious constraint to achiev-
ing this objective. Biomass fuels are the second most important source of
energy in China, accounting for more than 25% of final consumption. Recover-
able reserves of oil onshore have been variously estimated between 6-15
billion tons, and estimates for offshore oil reserves range from 3-10 billion
tons. Recoverable reserves of non-associated gas have so far been estimated
at about 3 trillion cubic feet (TCF), about 90% of which are located in
Sichuan province. In addition, recoverable reserves of associated gas are
estimated at about 1.8 TCF. Unofficial estimates of oil shale in China place
reserves at 400 billion tons. China's hydropower potential, among the largest
in the world, is estimated at 1900 TWh p.a., of which 87 TWh p.a. have so far
been developed. A major constraint has been that the bulk of the undeveloped
potential is located in four major basins in the southwest and the northwest
of China, 1,200-1,500 km away from major industrial load centers. The slow
pace of construction -- Gezhouba (2,100 MW) has taken 15 years -- has also
contributed to the low level of utilization of hydro resources; this needs to
be speeded up. The known uranium reserves in China are sufficient to sustain
15,000 MW of nuclear power plant for 30 years. Although potential sources of
geothermal energy are abundant in the mountainous southwestern part of the
country, their role is likely to remain limited due to their distance from
major load centers.
C. Efficiency of Energy Use
1.05      China's consumption of energy per unit of GDP is well above that of
any major developed or developing country. Several factors contribute to the
high intensity and relative inefficiency of fuel use, which is particularly
evident in the industrial sector. They are the structure of industrial
production, the scale of industrial units, the raw materials used, the
technology employed, and industrial organization and operating practices. In
the late 1970s, it became evident that this high energy consumption rate could
not be sustained. The Government accordingly evolved a series of
administrative measures to reduce the rapid growth of energy consumption.
These steps have so far consisted mainly of regulations concerning the amount
of energy use below established quotas. Conservation centers have been
established to provide technical assistance. A larger share of investment
funds has been allocated for modernization of existing enterprises, and in
particular energy conservation measures.



- 3 -
1.06      As a result, during the past five years an impressive improvement in
the overall level of energy efficiency has taken place. Energy consumption
per unit of GVIAO declined by 7% p.a. during 1979-81, and by 3% p.a. during
1982-83. Statistical data indicate a further reduction of 7% in 1984.
Technical and operational improvements are estimated to have accounted for
about 40% of these energy savings. The other 60% came from a decline in the
relative importance of heavy industry, the closure of some inefficient small-
scale plants and other structural changes within industrial subsectors.
1.07      Recent administrative measures have been effective in promoting
energy efficiency. There is a need, however, to complement and gradually
replace the current system of administrative controls (para. 2.02) with a
system that would provide more autonomy to individual entities and rely on an
energy price structure that reflects the cost and relative scarcity of each
source of energy. This would influence consumption in the direction of the
least cost mix of energy sources required to meet future demand. Such reform
of the allocation system would be a key component of an economic strategy to
adjust the structure of energy consumption properly balancing energy supply
with demand in the long-term.
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Background
2.01      China is the fifth largest producer of electricity in the world.
During the last three decades it has registered high rates of growth. Annual
per capita generation of electrical energy grew from 8 kWh in 1949 to 389 kWh
in 1985. Of the total installed capacity of 86,290 KW in 1985, 30% was hydro
and 70% was thermal. Power is distributed through 30 grids, of which 13
(representing over 80% of the total capacity) exceed 1,000 MW each. Energy
sales in 1985 reached 327 TWh, having grown at an average 13.8% p.a. since
1949 and 7.9% since 1974. Of these sales, 80% represented industrial
consumption, 10% agricultural, 1% transportation and 9% residential and urban
commercial usage. About 60% of the population has access to electricity.
Annex 1 summarizes the growth of installed capacity, electricity generation
and sales since 1949, and Annex 2 shows electricity generation by region and
by type of plant. The rate of growth of installed capacity has fallen in
recent years; during the Sixth Five-Year Plan it was only about 5.6% on the
average, the total increase being about 20,000 MW.
2.02      At present customer requests exceed available supplies by between 45
and 50 TWh per year; and this shortage is likely to continue in the medium
term. Electricity is presently allocated through quotas based on priorities
set by central, provincial and county authorities. The allocation procedure
is for local authorities and the concerned power supply bureau to review the
power requirements submitted by customers and adjust them on the basis of
Government priorities, past consumption and future prospects, regarding each
customer's activity and the availability of electric power. This chronic
shortage requires supply authorities to: (a) further reduce inefficiencies in
electricity use; (b) shift economic output away from electricity-intensive
activities towards light industry and the services sector; and (c) curb the
growth in peak demand.



- 4 -
2.03      The Seventh Five-Year Plan, recently approved by the People's
Congress, envisages increasing the generating capacity by as much as 35,000 KW
to generate 550 TWh by 1990. Several thermal power stations will be
constructed along the coast and near major coal mines in Shanxi, Heilongjiang,
Henan, Shaanxi, Shandong, Anhui, Guizhou, Nei Monggol and Ningxia. Large
hydroelectric stations will be built in the middle and upper reaches of the
Yellow river, and the Hongshui river valleys. Construction of a nuclear plant
in Guangdong province will start during this period. In the next 5 years, a
500 kV grid, supplying electricity to the northeastern, eastern, southern and
central China, will be commissioned. If successfully implemented, this will
should alleviate shortages in the long-term.
B. The Market for Electricity
2.04      Electricity consumption increased at an average rate of 10.6% p.a.
between 1965 and 1979, but this rate slowed down during 1979-85 when it
averaged only 6.0% p.a. The major reason has been the inability of the power
subsector to fully meet demand for electric energy and capacity (para. 2.02),
particularly in China's major industrial centers. On a countrywide basis, the
power shortage is about 15% of industrial electricity requirements. The
recent economic report on China estimates that, by the year 2000, generation
requirements would be in the 960-1,290 TWh range (at average growth rates
between 6.5-7.5% p.a.), requiring a 109,000-178,000 MW in additional
generating capacity.
2.05      The share of electricity in total energy consumption, has his-
torically been low in China compared to that of other countries due to:
(a) the relatively low level of electricity use in the residential and
commercial sectors; and (b) the relative inefficiency of fuel consumption in
the industrial sector. It, however, has been rising from about 13% of final
commercial energy use in 1970 to about 15% in 1975 and 18% in 1980. The share
is expected to reach 26-27% in 2000 which is comparable to that of the more
advanced developing countries. The manufacturing sector will continue to
account for at least three-quarters of final electricity consumption, although
electricity use per unit of value added may fall slightly. Electricity use in
residential and commercial sectors is expected to grow at 11-13% p.a.,
reflecting a gradual improvement in the living conditions of the population,
and the rapid growth of the services sector, starting from a low base.
Electricity use in transportation is projected to grow, reflecting the
increase in the share of electric locomotives in total railway haulage.
C. Institutions
2.06      Following the reorganization of the Government in 1982, the Ministry
of Water Resources and Electric Power (MWREP) oversees all aspects of electric
po:er development and water resource management including policy making, sys-
tem planning and the design, construction and operation of power and water
resource projects of regional importance. Under MWREP, there are six regional
power administrations which coordinate operations and load dispatching for the
regional power grids and formulate long-term development plans for approval by
MWREP and the State Planning Commission (SPC). Below the regional administra-
tions are 22 provincial and municipal power bureaus operating as parts of the



regional grids, while eight other power bureaus still operate in isolation
(see Chart 1, Organization of the Electric Power Industry Within MWREP). In
addition to the power supplies administered by MWREP, the Government has in
1985 established the Huaneng International Power Development Corp. (HIPDC) as
a joint venture company to attract foreign and domestic investment to
establish and operate power plants mainly in the coastal open cities.
D. Tariffs
2.07      Electricity tariffs have in general remained constant since 1953.
Through minor regional adjustments over the years, they have become reasonably
uniform all over the country except *.n the Northeast where historically they
have been lower because electricity was supplied predominantly by hydro-power
generation in the early years. The average revenue per unit has been increas-
ing due to the growing share of consumption by light industries, commercial
and residential users which pay higher rates. The national average was about
7.0 fen/kWh (US¢2.3/kWh) in 1985 compared with US¢7.8 in Korea, US¢7.1 in
Indonesia and US¢6.3 in Thailand. This is well below the marginal cost of
supply.
2.08      In line with the Government's recent policy to liberalize the
economy and move towards increased reliance on prices rather than physical
quotas, the electricity allocation system (para. 2.02) has to evolve to
provide customers more autonomy and make them responsive to appropriate tariff
incentives. With few exceptions, future tariffs should reflect differences in
cost of supply between day and night and, in some regions, between winter and
summer. On the supply side, these tariffs should provide the right signals
for distributors to reduce network losses and for producers, i.e. utilities,
counties and independent producers such as HIPDC, to operate most efficiently
providing maximum benefits to the economy. To assist the Government in
developing appropriate electricity tariffs, the Bank's Third Power (Beilungang
Thermal) project included an important tariff study that will commence with a
case study of the East China Grid (ECG) which will provide a sound analytical
basis both for tariffs for final consumers and for inter-system transfers to
promote integrated operation.
E. Manpower and Training
2.09      MWREP has about 2.5 million employees of whom about 51% are directly
under the Ministry and about 49% are under the provincial administrations. Of
the total, less than 30% have received formal education beyond junior
secondary school level, indicating the low quality of intake in the past and
the overall shortage of trained manpower, particularly for well-trained
administrative and technical staff.



-6-
2.10      In the late 1970s, MWREP initiated a long-term training program to
upgrade the quality of its existing staff at all levels. Although MWREP
organizes the program, much of the implementation is carried out by the
provincial power bureaus. The Ministry's immediate goal is to establish by
1986 a comprehensive program which will provide training to existing staff in
a systematic fashion. MWREP is also strengthening its capacity for full-time
training of potential employees through its Education Department which spon-
sors 4 universities, 39 technical colleges, television and correspondence
universities and 27 secondary-level vocational schools. Enrol_ed students
totalled 30,000 in 1985. About 15,300 graduates including the output from its
own institutions are assigned to MWREP annually - 7,000 at four-year college
level and 8,300 at junior college level. The quality of the intake and thus
the staff will be improved gradually, but the rate of change is still low.
These programs, supplemented by periodic in-service short courses for manager-
ial and technical staff and by on-the-job training for workers, are expected
to lead gradually to improvements in the productivity of the workers in the
sector. In support of these activities and specifically to meet the project
entity's human resource requirements, the proposed project would include a
training component (para. 5.12).
F. Planning
2.11      Power system planning at the regional and provincial levels is
carried out by the regional electric power administrations and the provincial
electric power bureaus. Overall planning is the responsibility of the Plan-
ning Department of MWREP which reviews the plans proposed by the regional
administrations and provincial bureaus on short-term (annual), medium term
(5-year) and long-term (10-15 year) bases. For major hydro projects, the
investigation, planning and design are carried out by the regional hydro-
electric investigation and design institutes. For system expansion, trans-
mission lines and substations above llOkV and major thermal projects, the
studies, planning and design are carried out by the regional electric power
design institutes. MWREP, like other line ministries, operates under the
overall supervision of SPC and the State Economic Commission (SEC), in which
are vested the ultimate authority for project approval, budget allocation,
financing arrangements and supervision.
2.12      Although construction of several large hydroelectric schemes has
been launched in recent years and more are planned, coal-based thermal power
generation is expected to provide about three quarters of the total generation
until the end of the century. The important issues in planning, concern
choice of plant type, sizing, location and transmission network planning.
Locational decisions must carefully balance the advantages of plant location
at the coal mine sites - requiring long-distance transmission to major load
centers - against development near load centers and port areas to which large
quantities of coal would have to be transported by rail and/or water.
2.13      As the planning of China's power subsector development becomes
increasingly complex, up-to-date system planning techniques will need to be
adopted, particularly to evaluate large-scale projects with long lead times
and to make decisions about the appropriate generating plant mix, power plant
location, and grid configuration. Arrangements were made under the Second



- 7 -
Power Project for introducing least cost investment programming techniques
through the technical assistance of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) and for staff training of the Planning Department of MWREP and the
Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute (WREPERI) in
Beijing. They are working satisfactorily. During 1985-86 WREPERI assisted
the Guangxi and Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureaus (FPEPB) to formulate
their least cost development programs.
G. Technology Transfer
2.14      Beyond better planning and intersectoral coordination, the transfer
and development of certain modern technologies will be crucial if China is to
achieve its ambitious goals of increasing energy production and efficiency
sufficiently to achieve its broader economic goals. Technology transfer is
critical fot thermal power plants, where increases in pressure and size of
units and greater development of cogeneration could reduce net fuel consump-
tion by some 20% by the year 2000, from the 1983 average of about 2,800
kcal/kWh, thus greatly alleviating pressures on coal supplies and transport.
The Government is already implementing this strategy through the gradual
introduction of standardized 300 MW and 600 MW coal-fired units. The Bank is
assisting the provision of state-of-the-art technology in the construction and
operation of 600 MW units under the third power project. Technical transfer
needed for hydroelectric projects includes interpretation of geological data,
judgment of foundation excavation, design for sophisticated structures and
construction management and adoption of the largest possible generating unit
sizes, in view of the large scale of development at future sites. These are
being provided under ongoirg projects and will be continued under the proposed
project.
H. Subsector Problems
2.15      Shortage of Generating Capacity.  In spite of considerable growth in
generating capacity, supply has lagged behind demand (para. 2.02) and short-
ages are reported in most regions - particularly in the Northeast, North,
South and East China grids. Demand management has been carried out in these
regions by staggering holidays, changing working hours, and load shedding
during shortages according to the allocation system described in para. 2.02.
On the supply side rapid expansion of generating capacity is the main
subsector problem. Implementation of rational tariffs for inter-system
transfers and better integration of power systems is needed to facilitate the
optimal coordination of expansion, operation and dispatching among
interconnected utilities, counties and other independent producers. The
system of allocation of supplies, necessary at this stage, should also give
way to a rational pricing system based on marginal costs.
2.16      Inadequate Transmission and Distribution Facilities.  The develop-
ment of transmission lines and substation facilities has lagged behind that of
generation. There are eight provincial grids still operating in isolation. A
D.C. line, 1,200 km long, connecting Central and East China is under
construction. MWREP has estimated that China has a shortage of about 10,000
km of transmission lines at voltages above 110 kV. Similar shortages exist in
substation capacity. Lower voltage subtransmission and distribution
facilities are currently being financed by the provincial governments or



- 8 -
municipalities. The local authorities usually do not allocate sufficient
funds for the improvement and extension of these facilities as required.
2.17      Financial Constraints.  Financial constraints have been one of the
main reasons for the shortage of generating capacity and the inadequacy of
transmission and distribution facilities. In the past, limited budgetary
allocations have caused considerable slow-down of power projects. Recently
the funding mechanism has undergone considerable revision. These changes have
led to the expectation that power bureaus can cover about 10-15% of their
investment requirements through internal cash generation (para. 6.11).
Further changes in the funding mechanism and the financial discipline
applicable to the power bureaus may need to be considered in order to increase
the amount of resources available for investment in the subsector and the
levels of self financing by the Power Bureaus themselves. This may also
require higher tariff increases in the future than now foreseen. The tariff
study to be carried out under the Beilungang thermal power project should
assist in focussing attention on these matters.
2.18      Technology Transfer and Training.  Despite some progress already
made, the pace and management of hydroelectric plant construction, and state
of technology in thermal power plant design, least-cost investment program-
ming, load dispatching and application of computers falls short of levels pre-
vailing in developed countries. The age profile of the engineering staff is
highly skewed: most are in their 50s and 60s. Strenuous efforts will be
needed to narrow the gap by training young graduates now emerging from univer-
sities. This may involve establishment of specialized training institutes,
on-the-job training within the country and training in utilities and institu-
tions abroad. A greater understanding of the subsector's training require-
ments is necessary before an appropriate solution can be developed and
encouraged. The Bank plans to address this issue in the context of a
subsector-oriented training program.
I. Subsector Objectives and Policies
2.19      The basic objectives of the Government for the power subsector are
to modernize it, increase its efficiency, and expand it at a rate sufficient
to meet the requirements of industrial development, and to allow a gradual
improvement of living conditions of .he population. To achieve these objec-
tives, the Government is pursuing the following policies:
(a)  establishing new enterprises such as HIPDC to expand generating
capacity as rapidly as possible;
(b)  a phased increase in the financial autonomy of the enterprises to
assume responsibility for all their investment requirements;
(c)  gradual introduction of a more rational pricing system to complement
the existing physical allocation system;
(d)  introduction of modern techniques in project design and system
planning;



(e) acceleration of the pace of hydro development;
(f) development of mine-mouth coal-fired thermal stations supplemented,
where necessary, by stations located near ports and load centers;
(g) construction of extra high voltage transmission lines to transmit
power from remote hydro sites and mine-mouth thermal stations and
for interconnection between regions;
(h)  progressive replacement of low pressure medium size (50-100 MW)
thermal units by higher pressure 300-600 MW units and reconversion
of oil-fired units to coal-firing;
(i) development of nuclear power in areas where other forms of energy
are scarce; and
(j) overall improvements in efficiency of energy utilization.
J. Role of the Bank
2.20      Past Bank lending operations have assisted the Government in
overcoming subsector problems described in paras. 2.15-2.18 and rationalizing
sub-sector investment decisions. The major thrust of Bank assistance has been
to introduce modern concepts of utility management and power system
technology. Each operation has focussed on specific aspects of the
Government's sectoral objectives.
2.21      The first power project in FY84 (the 600 MW Lubuge hydro project)
successfully promoted cofinancing arrangements including export credits for
the major electrical and mechanical equipment and bilateral grants for
engineering services; introduced international competitive bidding for civil
works and modern construction techniques for a rockfill dam, power tunnel and
underground powerhouse; and enhanced the financial autonomy of the Yunnan
Provincial Electric Power Bureau (YPEPB). The training component under the
project included training of staff of the Kunming Hydroelectric Investigation
and Design Institute, the Lubuge Construction Management Bureau and YPEPB in
the areas of design, construction management, quality control, accounting and
cost control through technical assistance; and the upgrading and equipping of
an electrical training school in Kunming. The foreign-contractor for the
power tunnel, surge tank and penstock is making good progress. Work by the
local contractor was behind schedule due to delays in procurement of
construction equipment but it has been expedited now.
2.22      The second power project in FY85 (the 500 kV transmission line from
Xuzhou to Shanghai) to transmit power from a 1300 MW mine-mouth coal-fired
thermal power station at Xuzhou to ECG successfully promoted a bilateral loan
for the Yangtze river crossing works, provided for transfer of technology in
500 kV transmission line and substation design, construction, operation and
Laintenance. The training component under the project included the
establishment of a training center and equipping of two other technical
schools in Nanjing and Shanghai for the operation and maintenance of 500 kV
transmission lines and substations. Works are proceeding well in procurement
and field construction.



- 10 -
2.23      Under the third and fourth power projects in FY86 the Bank is
financing an integrated 600 MW coal-fired unit (Beilungang thermal) which will
set performance standards for a series of same size thermal units and also in
building-the 1100 MW Yantan hydroelectric project. Both projects were
selected on the basis of least-cost studies (para. 2.12). In addition, the
third project is expected to contribute to the formulation of a more rational
tariff through a tariff study, and the fourth project is expected to provide
useful technical inputs in dam design and construction. These projects will
help alleviate severe power shortages, in East and South China.
2.24      The proposed project will help reduce the shortage of generating
capacity and energy in the East China and Fujian provincial grids, assist in
developing techniques to speed up construction of large hydro-electric
projects, and promote integrated operation of an emerging large regional power
system. Discussions between the Government of China (GOC) and the Bank are in
progress on building up a strong pipeline of projects which will continue to
support the subsector objectives outlined in para. 2.19.
III. THE BENEFICIARY
3.01      The beneficiary of the proposed loan would be the Fujian Provincial
Electric Power Bureau (FPEPB).
A. Legal Status and Organization
3.02      FPEPB is a state-owned enterprise under the jurisdiction of MWREP.
It is a legal entity with contractual and self accounting capacity. It has
been assigned responsibility for execution within its jurisdiction of the
national plan for power generation, capital investment, power sales and
tariffs, employment and payroll, materials consumption and tax and profit
remittances to the State.  A charter of FPEPB acceptable to the Bald> has been
issued.
3.03      FPEPB is headed by a director who is appointed by MWREP.  Three
deputy directors are functionally responsible to him respectively for planning
and capital construction; operations and technical matters; and administra-
tion, personnel, training and finance. The organizational structure of FPEPB
is shown in Chart 2.
B. Management
3.04      Under the current institutional framework in which managemnt of the
power subsector is highly centralized, FPEPB is well run. This is reflected
in the recent performance indicators shown in Annex 3. In addition, FPEPB
prepares accounting information in a timely fashion, maintains an effective
billing and collection system, and has a well defined plan for an integrated
management information system (para. 3.25-3.26). Nevertheless, in keeping
with the present trend towards a reduction in centralized control, FPEPB
management needs to prepare itself for greater responsibilities. Under the
Bank's third and fourth power projects (Beilungang thermal and Yantan hydro),



- 11 -
study tours are being designed to enable senior officials to get exposure to
modern concepts of utility management and financial planning. Under the
proposed loan, a similar program will also be included for relevant managerial
and financial staff (para. 5.12 and 6.02).
3.05      FPEPB is capable of formulating its expansion program and designing
and building medium size (up to 200 MW) thermal plants and transmission
facilites (lC kV - 220kV). For hydroelectric projects, FPEPB is able to
design medium size plants (between 25 MW and 250 MW), however, construction is
usually carried out by external contractors. The construction of the large
Shuikou project would be organized through a separate establishment - viz the
Shuikou Hydroelectric Power Construction Corporation (SHPC) - with which it
would enter into contractual arrangements (para. 5.29). Outside assistance
will also be used for engineering design and construction management under the
proposed loan (para. 5.31-5.32).
C. Staffing and Training
3.06      As of the end of 1985, FPEPB had a total staff of about 16,500, of
which about 250 worked at its headquarters in Fuzhou. Except for a core group
of key technical and managerial personnel who are assigned by MWREP, virtually
all of FPEPB's employees are recruited locally. They are hired on a permanent
basis with the exception of some contract labor for construction work.
3*07      Of the total staff employed by FPEPB, only about 3,630 or 22% have
received professional training beyond secondary level. Technical staff with
formal university education are centrally trained and assigned to FPEPB at the
rate of about 120 per year. Staffing of FPEPB is shown in Annex 4.
3.08      The Education Division of FPEPB administers three schools for the
training of mid-level technicians, skilled workers and administrative
personnel of the bureau. For academic year 1985, about 900 students were
enrolled and teaching staff totalled about 100. FPEPB's existing training
facilities and expansion plan are summarized in Annex 5. According to this
plan, the bureau expects to meet its recruitment needs for skilled workers and
technicians from 1988 onwards.
3.09      For specialized studies associated with the proposed project and
training for accounting and financial staff of FPEPB and MWREP a training
component will be included in the proposed loan (para. 5.12).
D. Planning
3.10      China has a centrally planned economy.  Although the economic reform
program which began about 1978 has brought about major changes, the economy
remains regulated mainly by state plans. Market forces, at this stage still
play a minor though increasingly significant role.
3.11      In this economic environment, the Planning Division of FPEPB works
closely with MWREP and the planning departments of the Government of the
province of Fujian (GPF) to develop its annual and five-year plans. The plans
are integrated with the national plans through MWREP and approved by the State



- 12 -
Planning Commission (SPc). Adherence to detailed annual investment and
operating plans are monitored and performance is evaluated against plan
targets. The five-year plans are less precise; they are formulated and
approved mainly to provide a basis for reference and preparation of annual
plans.
3.12      Investment plans are developed on a project by project basis.
Project costs become definite after detailed designs are prepared and cost
estimates finalized. However, FPEPB is allowed to request supplements to
cover unforeseen major price adjustments.
3.13      In conjunction with ongoing reforms which increasingly allow the
economy to be influenced by market forces, GOC has recently relaxed its con-
trol over the pricing system, so that prices will move slowly toward market
levels. Because the Chinese system of planning does not include provision for
long-term financial planning at the provincial power bureau level, the Bank in
connection with its power sector lending operations has assisted and will
continue to assist MWREP and various power bureaus in developing computerized
financial forecasting models to enable them to study the impact of their
expansion plans and variations in prices on their future financial positions
(para. 6.02).
E. Accounting
3.14      FPEPB is a self-accounting entity reporting directly to MWREP.  Its
accounts are prepared on an accrual basis using a double entry system. All
properties and materials are valued at historical cost. National accounting
regulations are instituted by MOF and the key ones are reported to and
promulgated by the State Council.  MOF reviews these regulations and
corresponding accounting standards on an ongoing basis. These are supple-
mented by detailed implementation procedures issued by MWREP.
3.15      Each of FPEPB's subordinate units prepare accounting information
every month, and the headquarters consolidates accounts monthly, quarterly and
annually. All these are done in a timely fashion. The accounts and financial
statements of FPEPB are aggregated according to the following three
functionally different categories of subordinate units:
(a)  Operating units - includes 11 power plants; 8 power supply bureaus,
2 project preparatory units, a test and research center, and a
dispatch center;
(b)  Construction units - includes the Thermal Power Undertaker which is
responsible for administering and managing overall construction
contracts and a construction unit which works as a subcontractor for
minor civil works and installation of thermal power stations and
transmission facilities; and
(c) Non-business units - includes 3 training schools, a design institute
and a staff sanatorium.



- 13 -
3.16      In connection with the Lubuge hydroelectric project (Loan 2382-CH),
the Bank requested that the first two categories of accounts and the accounts
of external construction units which are not under the power bureau's (YPEPB)
jurisdiction but work as contractors for the bureau be consolidated to
properly reflect the power bureau*s construction work-in-progress and the
grants/borrowings made to finance that construction. This approach has been
adopted for all subsequent Bank-financed power projects for the purpose of
project financial appraisal. For internal reporting in China, however, the
statements of a provincial power bureau neither consolidate the accounts of
different categories of subordinate units, nor reflect the accounts of its
contractors as construction work-in-progress.
3.17      In the future, however, as major new assets such as the Shuikou
hydroelectric project are being financed with loans made or onlent directly to
FPEPB which in turn is required to make progress payments to those
construction units functioning as contractors, FPEPB's accounts will reflect
the value of these assets under construction.
F. Audit
3.18      As with almost all Bank-financed projects in China, the Foreign
Investment Audit Bureau of the State Audit Administration (SAA) will be
responsible for auditing FPEPB's accounts. Actual audit work will be
conducted by the Fujian Provincial Audit Bureau, a subordinate organization of
SMA established in 1984. This arrangement is satisfactory. Assurances have
been obtained from FPEPB that it will furnish annual financial statements,
certified by an acceptable auditor, to the Bank within six months of the end
of each financial year.
3.19      In November 1985, following the establishment of the Audit
Department within MWREP, an internal audit division within FPEPB was set up.
Staff at each operating unit were also assigned to carry out the internal
audit functions by conducting thorough examinations of all accounts of the
unit, at least once during a year according to regulations. Their work is
subject to review by the audit division staff through periodic and spot
checks. The objects of these examinations are primarily testing for
arithmetical accuracy and compliance with MOF regulations. The first audit of
FPEPB for 1986 by SAA is expected to include a review and commentary on
FPEPB's system of internal control and internal audits.
G. Tariffs
3.20      FPEPB's current tariff schedule is shown in Annex 6.  Except for the
lighting tariff which was reduced by 5 fen/kWh in 1981, this schedule has been
unchanged since 1976. So far, the overall revenue derived from sales has pro-
vided FPEPB with satisfactory levels of operating income (para. 6.05). Large
industrial consumers pay a demand charge based on installed transformer
capacity, a power factor penalty/bonus, and an energy charge based on ccn-
sumption; all other consumers pay only an energy charge. Bulk supplies to
other distributors are sold at a discount up to 30Z at the county level and up
to 20Z at commune and township levels from the average rate charged to their
consumers, using the same tariff schedules as FPEPB. These discount rates are



- 14 -
adjusted marginally from year to year to take into account changing sales
patterns and the costs incurred by the distributor. Two categories of large
industrial consumers also enjoy concessionary rates in the form of energy
charges which are 1 and 2 fen/kWh below the prevailing levels charged to other
large industrial customers. These are being gradually phased out and will be
totally eliminated by 1987.
3.21      Industrial and commercial consumers also pay connection charges of
Y 130 - Y 170 per kVA of transformer capacity installed based on voltage level
of the distribution lines. These consumer connection receipts are credited to
the Distribution Expansion Special Fund (and accordingly are not reflected in
FPEPB's income statements but are taken directly to its balance sheets) and
are used to finance the cost of substations, distribution lines and service
drops.
H. Billing and Collection
3.22      FPEPB's sales by consumer categories are shown in the following
Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: DISTRIBUTION OF FPEPB's SALES
(As of December 31, 1985)
Customers      Energy sales    Sales revenue
number       X      (GWh)           (Y mn)   X
Lighting                      79,835       87       303      7      45       14
Large industry                   631        1      2783    62      186       57
General industry /a            8,622        9       435    10       37       11
Agriculture                    3,053        3         53     1       3        1
Bulk supply                        35       -       880    19       52       16
Others                              3       -         29     1       3        1
Total                    92,179      100     4,483   100      326      100
/a   Includes small industry, commercial and transportation customers.
3.23      FPEPB conducts its billing and collection activities through the
sales offices of its eight power supply bureaus. All industrial consumers and
bulk purchasers are charged in advance three times per month at 10 day
intervals based on estimated usage derived from their production or sales
plans. At the end of the month, meters are read and adjustments to reflect
actual usage are included in the first bill for the following month.
Industrial and commercial customers are all metered individually. Low voltage
customers are billed once a month based on actual usage. Many households are
metered individually; however, some domestic consumption is metered at the
apartment building level and the charge is distributed among residents by



- 15 -
internal arrangement. Agricultural consumption is generally metered at
FPEPB's lowest voltage step down transformer serving the particular commune;
the commune arranges appropriate distribution of charges among individual
farmers.
3.24      Industrial and commercial consumers and bulk purchasers pay their
bills in advance through direct debit from their bank accounts. Domestic and
agricultural consumers render payments to meter readers or at FPEPB's district
offices, usually within seven days after receipt of their bills. These
arrangements have established a reliable cash flow from sales and maintained
FPEPB's net accounts receivable from power sales at unusually low levels;
during the past 5 years, they averaged less than 2% of annual sales.
I. Computer Applications and Information Management
3.25      Currently FPEPB is equipped with three mini-computers (2 imported, 1
domestically manufactured), over 40 micro-processors and 6 word processors.
The main-frame computers and associated terminals are mainly used for
management and coordination of the 13 power sub-systems and to perform off-
line scientific calculations. Micro-processors have gained much support over
the last few years; many divisions within FPEPB and the 8 power supply bureaus
have already started to computerize some of their data processing functions
such as financial reporting, materials management, payroll, personnel record
management and billing.
3.26      FPEPB has a detailed and ambitious development program for the
computerization of its management information system during the Seventh Five-
Year Plan period (1986-1990). The system designed includes a mainframe,
associated terminals and a micro-computer local area network (LAN) at FPEPB's
headquarters, and micro-computers and their LANs in subordinate units (such as
a power plant). This interconnected system will in turn be connected to
computers of the provincial authorities, ECEPA and MWREP. FPEPB estimates the
additional cost for developing this integrated system to be about
Y 11 million.
J. Insurance
3.27      According to a notification jointly issued by MOF, the People's
Insurance Company of China, the People's Bank of China, and the Agricultural
Bank of China in 1983, all of FPEPB's fixed and current assets are eligible
for commercial insurance coverage which can be purchased on a voluntary
basis. In 1985, about two thirds of FPEPB's total assets had insurance
coverage and total premium paid was about Y 578,000. The balance was self-
insured by FPEPB. Main items not insured are construction work-in-progress
and main civil works (such as dams). FPEPB assured that its insurance
arrangements would be satisfactory to the Bank.



- 16 -
IV. THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM
A. The East China Grid (ECG)
4.01      ECG covers three provinces of Jiangsu, Anhui and Zhejiang and the
Shanghai municipality, with a combined population of 168 million. The
installed capacity of ECG was about 12,046 MW in 1984, consisting of about
10,188 MW of thermal (84%) and 1,876 MW of hydro (16%) capacities. The system
peak load and energy generation in 1984 were 9,400 MW and 68,075 GWh respec-
tively. Only 5,037 GWh or about 7Z was generated from hydro.
4.02      Hydro plants were derated by 781 MW in 1984 due to shortage of water
in dry seasons and thermal plants by 432 MW due to equipment troubles, conver-
sion of oil-fired units to coal-fired, weather conditions, etc. As a result,
ECC's dependable capacity was only 10,466 MW which provided a gross reserve
margin of only about 11.3% over the peak demand of 9,400 MW. This is grossly
inadequate.
4.03      At present, the highest transmission voltage level in ECG is 220
kV. The total length of 220 kV transmission lines was 7,271 km at the end of
1984 and the total capacity of 220 kV step-down transformers was 10,750 MVA
involving 65 substations. A network of 500 kV transmission lines is now being
constructed (see Map 1).
4.04      There are four load dispatching centers in ECG:  Shanghai, under the
supervision of ECEPA, has overall responsibility for transfer of power between
the three provinces and the municipality, which are presently interconnected
at 220 kV; Hangzhou (Zhejiang), Hefei (Anhui) and Nanjing (Jiangsu) centers
control the operation of generating stations, transmission and subtransmission
systems within their respective provinces. Power is transferred between
provinces on the basis of availability and relative costs of energy
generation.
B. The Fujian Power Grid (FPG)
4.05      Fujian, with a population of 27 million, is a coastal province in
East China lying directly south of Zhejiang province. As of 1985, the power
subsector of the province consisted of 9,540 plants with an installed capacity
of 2,418.2 MW (vs. 7.5 MW in 1949) with no linkages outside the province.
Fujian has a large number, 9,527, of minihydro stations, with capacity of
1,365.7 MW serving rural areas.   These plants are owned and operated by local
agencies assisted and regulated by the Fujian Provincial Minihydro Office.
FPEPB owns and operates il plants with an aggregate capacity of 1,037 MW. Of
this, 559 MW are hydro and 478 MW are thermal. The installed capacity,
generation and sales of FPEPB are given in Annex 7. FPG is an interconnected
system of 1,580.4 MW including all plants operated by FPEPB and 411 rural
minihydro plants with a capacity of 543.4 MW. The total electricity
generation in the province was 7,726 GWh of which grid-connected plants
accounted for 5,889 GWh. FPEPB-owned plants generated 4,304 GWh - 1,915 GWh
from coal-fired thermal plants, and the balance from hydroplants. Thus, in



- 17 -
1985, hydro energy accounted for 53% of the energy generated by FPEPB, 68Z of
the energy generated by the FPG, and 75% of the electricity generated in
Fujian Province.
4.06      The recent growth of ECG's and FPG's generation and system peak is
shown on Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: HISTORICAL LOAD GROWTH -
EAST CHINA GRID AND FUJIAN PROVINCIAL GRID
Peak Demand (MW)    Energy Generation (GWh)
ECG       FPG          ECG            FPG
1970                3,224.6   209.0    20,315.0          1,084.0
1980                7,380.1   616.0    53,875.0         3,907.0
1981               71770.4   687.0    55,947.0          4,113.0
1982               8,306.1   694.0    58,973.0          4,464.0
1983               8,874.7   760.0    63,011.0          4,736.0
1984               99400.0   860.0    68,075.0           5,227.0
1985               10,000.0   963.0    72,000.0          5,889.0
Average rate
of growth
(p.a.)                7.9%   10.6%         9.0%           11.9%
4.07      FPG had its beginnings in 1956 when the Gutianqi Hydroplant (2x6 MW)
was commissioned and connected with the thermal power stations in Fuzhou by a
66 kV transmission line. Thereafter the grid was gradually extended until
attaining its present ring shaped configuration in 1980, with 220 kV and 110
kV lines linking the northern and southern parts of the province (Map 3). The
current transmission network consists of 740 km of 220 kV lines and 1,575 km
of 110 kV lines, all of it owned and operated by FPEPB. The total capacity of
220 kV step-down transformers is 653 MVA, and of 110 kV transformers, 770 KVA.
4.08      The consumption of electricity in FPG grew at an average rate of
13.7% p.a. from 1970 to 1980, but the growth rate declined to 6.6% from 1980
to 1983 due to lack of generating capacity. The comissioning of new units in
1984 and 1985 has eased the shortage and allowed consumption to grow at 10.4%
and 14.0%, respectively, but this rapid growth cannot be sustained in the near
term due to lack of capacity. As in other parts of China the available
supplies of electricity are allocated by local power supply bureaus (of which
there are eight in Fujian) on the basis of national, provincial and local
priorities. In the short run, in the years of insufficient supplies, the
shortages tend to be borne by the electricity intensive industries, including
aluminum refining, calcium carbide, ferroalloys and synthetic ammonia. In
general, however, the shortage of electricity acts as a constraint on economic
growth, as no new investments are being approved unless their electricity
requirements can be met under the existing physical allocation mechanism.



- 18 -
4.09      As mentioned above, in 1985, 7,726 CWh of electricity were generated
in the province, of which 4,304 GWh (561) was accounted for by FPEPB plants.
Of the 3,422 GWh generated by locally-owned minihydro plants, 2,653 CWh (77%)
was distributed locally in rural areas and the remaining 769 GWh (23%) was
purchased by FPEPB and delivered into the grid.  Of the 4,304 GWh generated in
FPEPB, 189 CWh (4%) were used in plant and the rest was fed into the grid.  Of
the total 4,884 GWh delivered to the grid (84% from FPEPB and 16% from rural
minihydro), 401 GWh (8%) were lost in transmission and distribution, and
4,483 GWh were sold to customers of the FPEPB.  The composition of sales was
as follows: industry - 79.8%, agriculture - 8.82, transport - 0.9%,
residential and commercial - 10.5% (see Annex 8).
C. Load Forecast
4.10      In the provinces to be served by the Shuikou project, load forecasts
were developed as part of the provincial economic planning process, through a
combination of statistical methods and planning targets applied to every
significant consumer category. The forecasted provincial load requirement
were then disaggregated between the load that is expected to be met by the
East China and Fujian provincial grids and the load that is going to be met
through other sources, i.e., rural minihydro plants and industrial self-
generation. The resulting forecasts for peak demand and energy generation
requirements of the two grids for the period 1986-1995 are shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: LOAD FOREtAST (1986-1995) -
EAST CHINA GRID (ECG) AND FUJIAN PROVINCIAL GRID (FPG)
Peak Demand (MW) Energy Generation Required (GWh)
Year                  ECG       FPG          ECG           FPG
1986                10,970    1,080         77,500       6,630
1987                11,960    1,200         83,610        7,350
1988                13,030    1,300         90,210       8,000
1989                14,200    1,410         97,300       8,700
1990                15,480    1,650        105,000       10,100
1991               16,920    1,782         113,800       10,880
1992                18,510    1,957        123,300       11,960
1993               20,240    2,155         133,700       13,170
1994               22,130    2,370         144,860       14,490
1995               24,210    2,608         157,000       15,960
Average rate
of growth
(p.a.)              9.2      10.3            8.2         10.3
4.11      The forecasts for ECG are reasonable but may be conservative
considering that: (a) East China is one of the most prosperous areas in China



- 19 -
4.11      The forecasts for ECG are reasonable but may be conservative
considering that: (a) East China is one of the most prosperous areas in China
with many important industries and a booming economy accounting for almost a
quarter of China's gross national product; (b) a number of large users such as
the Baoshan steel mill, textile and petro-chemical industries, oil refineries
and pumping stations for the South-North Water Diversion Scheme will be put
into operation in the next few years; and (c) modernization is proceeding
rapidly in the region and is likely to lead to a gradual substitution of other
forms of energy by electricity.
4.12      The forecasts for FPG are consistent with the accepted provincial
objective of quadrupling GVIAO by 1995 in relation to 1980. The development
of the province has been constrained in the past due to strategic considera-
tions, and it plans to catch up with neighboring provinces and take full
advantage of its natural resource potential, good harbors and historical com-
mercial ties with Southeast Asia. To bring about this relatively rapid growth
rate the province is coordinating major expansions of basic infrastructure,
such as the power grid, railway electrification, inland navigation, airports,
harbors and telecommunications, and otherwise stimulating investments (both
foreign and domestic) through the creation of a Special Economic Zone in
Xiamen, an Economic Development Area -- Coastal Open City in Fuzhou-Mawei, an
Economic Development Triangle in southern Fujian, and a provincial development
company -- the Fujian Investment and Enterprise Corporation. The results so
far have been encouraging. GVIAO grew at 20.2% in 1984 and 19.1% in 1985 (vs.
a plan target of 8.5%), but this rate cannot be sustained due to inadequacies
in the supporting infrastructure, among the most important of which is the
shortage of electricity. The load forecast should therefore be regarded as
conservative, but reasonable in light of the long implementation period of the
project.
D. The 1986-1995 Power Development Program
4.13      East China is short of natural energy resources.  The Shuikou (1,400
MW) project in Fujian province is the only sizable conventional hydro project
located within the region capable of providing peaking capacity to the
system. Additional generation expansion will depend primarily on coal-fired
thermal power stations located at mine-mouth or near ports and load centers
mainly using coal from Shanxi province.
4.14      WREPERI with t.e assistance of IAEA has recently completed a long-
range power development ojtimization study for tl.,t ECG system (paras. 2.13 and
7.08). It confirmed that the Shuikou project with seven units of 200 MW each,
to be commissioned from 1993 to 1994, forms part of the least cost expansion
plan of the combined East China and Fujian Provincial grids. A summary of the
development program oi ECG and FPG including generation and transmission is
given in Annex 9. The program takes into account the replacement of oil-fired
units and the retirement of old and small units. Until 1987, system load
growth would still be constrained due to shortage of generating capacity.
After 1987 dependable capacity would exceed peak demand and adequate reserves
would be built up gradually. As for meeting energy requirements, the supply
would still be inadequate until 1991 when the Beilungang thermal power
station -- a key base-load plant for ECG -- comes into operation.



- 20 -
4.15      The 700 MW FTPS being built by HIPDC for commissioning in 1988 would
meet practically all the growth of demand in tujian province until 1994 and is
a crucial element of the provincial development program. In view of its
pioneering financing pattern (para. 2.06) special arrangements have to be made
between HIPDC and FPEPB for its satisfactory operation. A purchase agreement
has been entered into on July 1, 1986 between FPEPB, the Fujian Provincial
Finance Bureau (FPFB), and HIPDC. This agreement was reviewed in detail, and
it was agreed that, inter alia, the following aspects would be considered
further among the three parties:
(a) defining eligible finance charges and other costs incurred by HIPDC
for construction and operation of FTPS (2 x 350 MW) which may be
included in the tariff determined under the purchase agreement;
(b) ensuring that FPEPB will not be liable for any overpayments to HIPDC
for costs which were not incurred by HIPDC;
(c) defining the time when units are to be commissioned; and the
procedures to be used, and factors to be considered, for annual
adjustment of tariffs and determination of payments which may be
required under the purchase agreement;
(d) clarifying whether the present arrangements, including those for
determing the cost of continued purchase of FTPS power, would
continue after HIPDC has repayed all loans borrowed for constructing
FTPS (2 x 350 MW); and
(e) the mutual responsibilities/liabilities of FPEPB and FPFB under the
purchase agreement.
4.16      It was agreed that the Bank would be informed of the results of the
above, and necessary follow-up actions taken in consultation with the Bank, no
later than three months prior to the start of purchase by FPEPB under the
agreement. It was further agreed that the method of recovery of costs
associated with purchase of FTPS power from FPEPB's consumers would also be
further considered and decided upon in consultation with the Bank no later
than three months prior to the start of the purchase by FPEPB under the
agreement. It was also agreed that the Bank would be informed about steps
that may need to be taken to ensure that the dispatching of the output of FTPS
is done on a basis consistent with the least cost operation of the
interconnected electricity system of Fujian Province.
4.17      During negotiations assurances were obtained that (a) prior to
commissioning of FTPS, FPEPB would enter into, and thereafter implement an
agreements with HIPDC for the purchase of electric power from FTPS satis-
factory to the Bank and (b) that Government would cuase HIPDC to implement the
above agreement.



- 21 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.01      This power project is needed to alleviate the acute shortage of
energy, and particularly of peaking capacity in ECG, which now has a
predominantly (87%) thermal installed generating capacity of about 12000 MW;
it is also needed to meet the growing energy requirements of the 1,312 MW
Fujian grid. These grids are presently isolated. During the past 15 years
demands have grown at annual rates of 8% and 11% respectively in these two
regions and are expected to reach about 24,000 MW and 2,600 MW by about
1995. Future development of power supply in the region is based on the
strategy of using coal as the primary source of energy, supplemented by
available undeveloped hydro power. The latter is located almost entirely in
Fujian province.
5.02      The main project objectives are to (i) develop a major hydro site to
serve primarily as a peaking station in ECG; (ii) effectively introduce the
most modern technology available for speedy construction of this large dam and
power station; (iii) link the East China and Fujian power grids, and promote
more effective integrated operation of a major regional grid; and (iv) provide
training in management of international contracts for large civil works and in
financial management.
B. Project Description
Components
5.03      The project comprises the following:
(a)  preparatory works comprising access roads, construction colony,
relocation of a main highway, a bridge across the river,
construction power lines, etc.;
(b)  construction of a concrete gravity dam (101 m high), a spillway, a
powerhouse, a 3-stage navigation lock and appurtenant works;
(c)  provision and installation of seven 200 MW generating sets and
associated electrical system including a 500 kV step-up substation;
(d)  construction of a 500 kV single-circuit transmission line, about 560
km long, from Shuikou to Hangzhou, including necessary equipment in
a substatlon at Jinhua;
(e)  resettlement of about 63,000 people and agricultural development for
the reconstruction of their production systems and communities;
(f)  consulting services for engineering and construction management;



- 22 -
(g) studies of: (i) coordinated operation of hydroelectric plants in
the Fujian and East China grids and related system improvements; and
(ii) power system controls and load dispatching systems in Fujian
and East China; and
(h) training.
5.04      At the site of the 101 m high dam the normal river width is about
380 m. The overflow spillway, with 12 gates (15 m x 22 m), is located in the
middle of the dam and the power house, about 300 m long, at the downstream toe
of the dam on the left bank. The navigation lock, 536 m long, and the raft
lift, are on the right bank along the excavated river diversion channel.
Construction of the river di version works, and the main civil structures
involves about 8.1 million m of excavation (6.6 million m of which is rock)
and 3.5 million m of concrete. The ship locks and raft lifts will have the
capability to transport 3 million tons of freight and 1.5 million tons of
rafts every year. The salient physical features of the project are detailed
in Annex 11.
Setting in Min Valley and East Region
5.05      The Shuikou project is located in the lower reaches of the Min river
valley in Fujian province. Six hydroelectric stations, with a total installed
capacity of 474 MW have already been built in this valley, upstream of
Shuikou, and a seventh, Shaxikou (300 MW), is currently in an advanced stage
of construction (Map 3). Sites identified for future development are also
shown in the map and their features are listed in Annex 10. The Shuikou site,
with its easy accessibility, excellent geological features and proximity to
demand centres, has long been considered an attractive hydroelectric site.
The proposed Shuikou reservoir, however, backs right up to the Nanping city
which limits the permissible maximum reservoir level and hence its storage
capacity which is only about 2% of the average annual river flow at the dam
site. Coordinated operation of the Shuikou reservoir, with existing upstream
reservoirs, and particularly, the large reservoirs of ECG, is therefore
essential to maximize benefits from this project. Theoretical studies of such
coordinated operations have demonstrated that the project would provide:
(a) a dependable capacity of 1000 MW; and (b) average annual energy generation
of 4950 GWh, of which about 65% would be firm. Further studies and additional
work, explained in para. 5.11, is required, however, to realize these benefits
in practice.
Permanent Railway Relocation
5.06      Concurrently with the construction of the project, but outside its
scope, a 66 km section of the Waiyang-Fuzhou railway, which would be flooded
by the proposed Shuikou reservoir, is being relocated to a higher level and
upgraded as a special project listed in the State plan. The Government of
China has given the full responsibility for timely construction of this
railway relocation work to the Ministry of Railways (MOR). The railway,
located on the left bank of the Min river, was built during the late fifties,
when construction of the Shuikou dam had already been postulated. The
departments concerned with development of the railway and the hydroelectric



- 23 -
project were then required by SPC to ensure that the railway alignment should
conform to the proposed top water level of the Shuikou project reservoir. As
there was uncertainty in this regard mainly due to submergence at Nanping City
and about the timing of construction of the Shuikou project which, at that
time, was not expected for 10-15 years, it was considered reasonable by the
railway authorities to align the railway line along the natural bank of the
Min river and also to construct it to a lower standard, in the first instance,
on the understanding that this line would be removed and reconstructed above
the proposed Shuikou reservoir level after about 10 years. Notwithstanding
this agreement, when the Shuikou project was ready for implementation in 1980,
problems arose on responsibilities, costs etc. These were resolved only in
1985 when SPC authorized the commencement of construction of the railway
relocation works by the Ministry of Railways, allocated a total of Y 420 mil-
lion (about $114 million) additional to the State plan, and directed that the
entire work be completed by November 1989. Construction of the railway
relocation started in January 1986 and is proceeding satisfactorily.
Nevertheless, assurances are required from Government that it will take all
measures necessary to safeguard the Shuikou project implementation from any
delay in this regard (para 5.28).
Origin and Investigations
5.07      The site was located through a preliminary basin wise survey of
potential hydroelectric sites carried out during the mid fifties. Field
investigations of the project were started in 1958, and, after being suspended
for a few years, were recommenced in 1976. Extensive geological investiga-
tions, including over 10,000 m of drilling, have been carried out by the East
China Hydroelectric Power Investigation and Design Institute (ECHIDI) (see
para. 5.29). The dam site is underlain by hard, compact and monolithic
biotite granite which is highly stable and remarkably free of faults. Natural
construction materials are available at the site. River gauge and discharge
measurements have been carried out continuously since 1934. The first
feasibility report was prepared in 1978 and the preliminary design report in
1980.
5.08      The project was proposed for Bank assistance in 1980 but its
implementation had to await settlement of the railway relocation problem
(para. 5.06). The general layout, basic design, construction planning and
scheduling of the project were reviewed during 1982/83-by the International
Engineering Company (IECO) (now renamed Morrisson Knudsen Engineering Co. MKE)
of USA, retained by MWREP under the UNDP umbrella project.  This review
confirmed the choice of site, the proposed method of river control during
construction and the choice of generating unit and its size. Some
recommendations were made for optimizing designs and these were adopted. The
preliminary designs, as finalized, were approved by the Bank and MWREP in
1983.
5.09      A Special Board of Consultants (SBC) was appointed in 1985 to review
the project designs and construction, primarily from the dam safety standpoint
but also from considerations of overall economy, efficiency and speed of
implementation. SBC first met in November 1985 during pre-appraisal. A
further review was made by its construction specialist during appraisal in



- 24 -
February 1986. SBC has confirmed that the selection of the dam site is the
optimum of several available alternatives and that the layout and designs take
the fullest advantage of the topography and geology. Recommendations by the
Board are mainly to effect further economies and to speed up construction.
Most of these have been accepted.
5.10      The choice of the type and generating unit size has been the subject
of considerable detailed study by ECHIDI. Factors such as the total
generating capacity to be provided at the site, the variations in operating
head and output at the power station, regime of water releases3 from the
reservoir to meet downstream navigation requirements, and overall operational
efficiency have been taken into account in deciding on the Kaplan type
turbines each rated at 200 MW. The rating exceeds by about 15% the largest
output of any such turbine now in operation. FPEPB and ECHIDI carried out a
detailed review of the performance of some of the largest Kaplan units
installed outside China, and held discussions with experts in design and
manufacture of such equipment in order to establish criteria for the technical
specifications.
5.11      The transmission system will include a 500 kV line -- which will
form part of the project -- and a 220 kV system which will be implemented as
part of FPEPB's transmission development program. The 500 kV system has been
planned and designed by the East China Electric Power Design Institute of
MWREP in Shanghai taking into account peak load carrying capacity of hydro
stations, economic benefits of regional interconnections and system stability
considerations. Studies by ECHIDI have established that the firm power
benefits of the project would increase by 107 MW (40%) when the operation of
ECG and FPG systems is fully integrated. In order to ensure that this
integration is actually achieved as soon as possible a study is required to
assess exact system improvements and costs of additional equipment, etc. A
further study is needed to determine arrangements for power system control and
load dispatch in Fujian and East China grids under conditions which would
prevail in the mid-90s after the Shuikou project is commissioned. Terms of
reference and program for these studies are outlined in Annex 12. The scope
of technical assistance involves about 42 expatriate man-months and the cost
will be financed under the proposed loan. Assurances have been obtained from
FPEPB that these studies will be carried out in accordance with terms of
reference and timing agreed with the Bank.
5.12      The training component of the proposed project will comprise two
subcomponents. The training of utility management and financial planning will
basically be short-term study tours to provide an opportunity for senior
officials of MWREP, MOF, FPEPB and SHPC to gain exposure to modern utility
management techniques in general, and up-to-date financial planning and
practices in particular. This will be designed to complement similar training
programs included in two earlier Bank-financed power projects (Beilungang
thermal and Yantan hydro). Each lending operation will concentrate on one or
two specific areas to provide maximal depth and to avoid duplication of
effort. The second subcomponent of the training program will be carried out
in China. Contractual arrangements with foreign consultants (para. 5.31) will
provide for training of Chinese engineers and managers in contract management
and efficient control and reporting of construction to achieve the earliest



- 25 -
possible civil works completion and plant commissioning dates. The contract
specialist referred to in para. 5.32 will also have advisory functions in
regard to training. Assurances have been obtained that FPEPB will carry out
training in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Cost Estimate
5.13      The estimated cost of the project is summarized in Table 5.1 below.
Table 5.1 SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign as
--- R1MB Y Million ---  --- US$ Million  --    2 of Total
Preparatory works                        73.5    10.9    84.4    19.9       2.9    22.8      13
Resettlement compensation               371.7      -    371.7   100.5        -    100.5       -
Civil and associated works              220.9   515.8   736.7    59.7   139.4   199.1        70
Metal works                              36.3    14.0    50.2      9.8      3.8    13.6      28
Electrical and mechanical works         265.8   299.4   565.2    71.8    80.9   152.8        53
Transmission lines                      112.3    92.5   204.8    30.4    25.0    55.4        45
Engineering and construction
supervision                            28.8    40.4    69.3      7.8    10.9    18.7       58
Administration                           38.8      -      38.8    10.5       -      10.5      -
Technical assistance and training         1.9     3.7      5.6     0.5      1.0     1.5      66
Total Base Cost                   1,150.0   976.7 2,126.7   310.8   264.0   574.8        46
Contingencies
Physical                              102.6    85.5   188.1    27.7    23.1    50.8        45
Price                                 439.5   412.1   851.6   118.8   111.4   230.2        48
Total Project Cost               1,692.0 1,474.4 3,166.4   457.3   398.5   855.8         47
Interest During Construction
Bank loan                                -    269.1   269.1       -      72.7    72.7    100
Other loans                           307.9   281.5   589.4    83.2    76.1   159.3        48
Total Financing Required         1,999.9 2,024.9 4,024.9   540.5   547.3 1,087.8         50
Note:  1.  The project would be exempted from import duties and taxes.
2. Total physical contingencies are about 92 of base cost; local price contingencies are
about 35X and foreign contingencies are about 391 of the base cost plus physical
contingencies.
3. Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 26 -
5.14      The base cost estimates are at mid-1986 price levels.  The cost
estimates for civil works are based on the evaluation of bids received
July 31, 1986. The quantities of work detailed in the tender documents were
determined from approved project designs and from a detailed construction
program which identified critical work items essenteial to attain the target
dates set out in the tender documents.
5.15      The breakdown of the project costs into foreign and local components
on this project reflects the government decision to import appropriate modern
construction equipment, construction technology and management methods to
ensure the speediest possible construction. Foreign costs cover: (a) con-
struction plant and equipment for the main civil works; (b) cement, steel and
90% of the timber; (c) steel for penstocks; (d) diversion closure gates,
hoists and accessories; (e) steel for local manufacture of the intake and
spillway gates, permanent outlets, navigation locks, draft tubes, etc.;
(f) contractor's foreign supervisory personnel and expenses; and (g) elec-
tromechanical equipment for the first two generating units and the 500 kV
transformers, associated switchgear and other equipment. Local costs include
(a) applicable supervision costs; (b) local labor; (c) costs of explosives,
fuel and lubricants; (d) some timber; (e) miscellaneous hardware and
equipment; (f) applicable portion of civil work's contractor's job-site
facilities and overhead; and (g) all costs of the remaining 5 locally procured
generating units.
5.16      Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% for preparatory works,
main civil works and engineering/administration and 7% for metal works and
electro-mechanical equipment. Considering the site features and stage of
designs these are appropriate. Price contingencies were calculated for both
foreign and local costs at 7.2Z for 1986, 6.8% for 1987-88, 7% for 1989, 7.1%
for 1990, and 4Z for 1991 and thereafter.
5.17      A cost estimate, by category and purpose of works, which includes
contingencies is given in Annex 13. The annual distribution of expenditures
on the project are given in Annex 14.
D. Financing Plan
5.18           As this monolithic project will have a lengthy construction
period of about nine years, GOC decided to phase the project financing rather
than secure financing for the entire project at the outset. GOC did not wish
to secure all financing up front because it felt it would unnecessarily tie up
resources which could be used for other projects with requirements for more
immediate financing. The proposed loan would help to finance only the initial
four years of project implementation (1987-90). At GOC's request, however,
the Bank has agreed to consider a request for a second loan for the remaining
period of the project. Nevertheless, GOC is committed to and envisions no
difficulty in providing financing for completion of the project even if the
Bank does not provide additional financing at a later stage. At negotiationst
GOC's obligation to provide funding for the entire project was reconfirmed.
GOC requested, and it has been agreed, that the second phase of the project
would be included in the Bank's proposed pipeline of future projects (para.
2.24).



- 27 -
5,19      The tentative financing plan for the project would be as shown in
Table 5.2 below$
Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN
(Us$ million equivalent)
Source                   Local                Foreign                   Total
IBRD                        -                   140.0                    140.0
Foreign exchange loans                          260.0                    260.0
to be arranged
Local loans              540.5                  147.3                    687.8
Total                540.5                  547.3                  1,087.8
This financing plan does not include any self financing; the current Chinese
financial system does not allow a power bureau to retain its internally
generated funds to finance major new projects.
5.20      The proposed Bank loan of $140.0 million equivalent would meet about
43X of the total cost of the project incurred, during the period ending 1987-
1990. It would be used to finance the:
(a) estimated foreign cost of the main civil and penstock works contract
(about 70X of the total cost) to be carried out during 1987-19901
(b) foreign cost (initial payments) of the first two generating units;
and
(c) consulting services, studies and overseas training.
5.21      The Bank loan would be made to the People's Republic of China at the
scandard variable interest rate for a 20-year term including five years of
grace. Assurances have been obtained that the Government would onlend the
proceeds of the Bank loan to FPEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement with a
20-year term including five years of grace and an interest rate of 8.SX p.a.
FPEPB would bear the commitment charges and the foreign exchange risk (between
the dollar and the Borrower's currency). A project Agreement would be signed
between the Bank and FPSPB. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to the Bank and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State
Council would be conditions of effectiveness of the loan.
E. Procurement
5.22      The main items to be procured are (a) preparatory works; (b) the
main civil works; (c) various electrical and mechanical equipments; and
(d) engineering and consultancy services. A number of contracts for prepara-
tory civil and electrical works, totalling about $27 million, have been



- 28 -
awarded in 1985, following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank. These contracts will not be financed by the Bank,
5.23      The main civil and associated works contract (estimated at about
$295 million), to be partly financed by the Bank, will be awarded through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Prequalification of bidders was carried out in consultation with the Bank.
The bid evoked strong international response. Submissions were received from
31 applicants (25 joint ventures and 6 independents). Of these 13 were pre-
qualified and tender documents approved by the Bank were issued to them. Ten
bids were received on July 31, 1986. The bids include appropriate provisions
for insurance of the works. Bid evaluation by GOC has been completed. It is
currently under review in the Bank.
5.24      The proposed Bank loan will also partly finance the supply and
erection of the first two 200 KW turbogenerators and associated equipment,
including 500 kV equipment, and the 500 kV transmission line which will also
be procured through ICB in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guide-
lines. The total value of these contracts is estimated at about $122 mil-
lion. In bid evaluation, qualified domestic manufacturers would be eligible
for a preference of 151 or the import duty, whichever is lower. Supply and
erection of the remaining five generating sets and associated equipment will
be procured locally by LCB. The procurement arrangements for the project are
summarized in Table 5.3.
5.25      All bidding packages for goods financed by the Bank and estimated to
cost over US$1.0 million equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documents, which cover most of the Bank-financed con-
tracts. Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $150,000 per contract, up to aggregate amount of $2,000,000 could be
procured on the basis of at least three bids from qualified suppliers eligible
under the guidelines in accordance with Limited International Bidding
procedures (LIB).



- 29 -
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANCEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent) /a
Procurement method
Project element                    LCB        ICB        Other    NA         Total
Preparatory works                  26.9        -          -                  26.9
Resettlement                          -        -       138.3                138.3
Civil and associated works            -     294.6         -                 294.6
(103.1)                        (103.1)
Gates, hoists, and cranes /b        15.3      5.8         -                  21.1
(1.5)                          (1.5)
Turbines /c                        55.6      39.5         -                  95.1
(6.9)                          (5.9)
Generators /c                      48.7      35.9         -                  84.6
(4.1)                          (4.1)
Transformers, switchgear /d         13.5     46.2         -                  59.7
(5.8)                          (5.8)
Controls                              -       5.0         -                   5.0
(0.7)                          (0.7)
Transmission line, etc. /b         46.8      38.5         -                  85.3
(7.3)                          (7.3)
Engineering                          -                  27.4                 27.4
(9.2)                (9.2)
Administration, studies & training  -          -          -      17.8        17.8
(1.4)      (1.4)
Total                        206.8    465.5      165.7      17.8       855.8
M-)    (129.4)      (9.2)    (1.4)    (140.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
proposed Bank loan.
/b   Materials (steel) to be imported by ICB; fabrication and supply by LCB.
7T   The first 2 units will be imported under ICB.  The remaining 5 units will
be procured through LCB but will not be financed by the Bank.
/d 500 kV equipment imported under ICB; rest through LCB.
F. Project Implementation
5.26      Construction of preparatory works of the project, comprising
relocation of 22.0 km of the existing Shui-Zhang highway on the right bank, a
bridge across the Min river, temporary relocation of about 1.9 km of the
Waiyang-Fushou railway near the dam site, a freight yard, and a 110 kV trans-
mission line and substation for supply of power for construction, started
during August-December 1985 and is progressing well. Land acquisition has
progressed well. About 200 ha out of 367 ha of land required for construction
has already been acquired; the balance will be acquired by 1987.



- 30 -
5.27      Bidding for the main civil works of the project has been completed
(para. 5.23). The program is to start construction on these works in January
1987, divert the river through the right bank diversion channel in November
1989 and commercially operate the first generating unit and the 500 kY
tranismission system by June 1993. The rest of the installations would be
completed by mid 1995. The implementation schedule is shown in Chart 3
attached. A list of procurement schedules for main project components is at
Annex 15. The program is tight and will require close monitoring. The
project completion date will be June 309 1995 and the closing date of the loan
would be December 31, 1991.
5.28      The construction schedule of the main dam is controlled to a large
extent by the progress of the permanent railway relocation. Diversion of the
river into the channel (para. 5.27) can only be carried out after the railway
is relocated at the higher level. Originally programmed for 5 years by the
Ministry of Railways, the construction period of the permanent railway
relocation works has now been reduced to 4 years after inter-ministerial
discussions and detailed reviews. Further significant reductions in the
program are not considered possible though incentives for the purpose have
been built into the ongoing contracts. Every effort has to be made, however,
to ensure that the program does not slip as this would adversely affect
construction of the main dam. Special attention has recently been given to
the land requisition aspect, which is being handled by the Fujian provincial
authorities, and not by the special organization established to handle the
rest of the resettlement work under the Shuikou project. Assurances have been
obtained that the Government will: (a) take all steps necessary to ensure that
the permanent railway relocation shall be carried out in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices and completed in a timely manner meeting
Shuikou project schedules; and (b) furnish to the Bank from time to time such
information related thereto as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Engineering and Construction Supervision
5.29      Whereas FPEPB would be the owner and proprietor of the project,
MWREP, in accordance with its program of economic reforms and to ensure that
large hydroelectric projects like Shuikou are constructed as efficiently as
possible, has set up a special organization called the Shuikou Hydroelectric
Project Construction Corporation (SHPC). Under contractual arrangements with
FPEPB, SHPC will be responsible for organizing the entire construction of the
project and in particular, has been designated as the engineer for managing
the main civil works contract. ECHIDI will continue to be responsible for
design of the project (para. 5.31). MKE's assistance will continue to be
utilized for construction stage designs and for supervision of construction.
5.30      SHPC was established in 1985 and has been registered as a separate
company in Fujian province. It will ultimately have a staff of about
150 including 80 experienced engineers recruited from all over China. Of
these, about 100 (including 50 engineers) are now in position.
5.31      ECHIDI is one of the most prestigious of China's design institutes,
having undertaken designs of some 40 major hydroelectric schemes of which over
20 have been built and are now in successful operation. It has a professional



- 31 -
staff of over 1000. In order to incorporate the most modern techniques to the
Shuikou project, agreements have been made by FPEPB with MKE for technical
assistance to ECHIDI in regard to review of designs, preparation of cost
estimates, tender documents, etc. This was financed under the Bank's first
TCC. A further agreement, which will be financed under the proposed loan,
will extend these services, as well as some assistance for supervision of
construction through the construction period. The cost estimate for
engineering is based on about 18,000 man-months of national and 700 man-months
of foreign personnel. The base cost of expatriate services is at a rate of
$12,500 per man-month, excluding international travel and transport ($500,000)
and office equipment, etc. ($1,500,000).
5.32      The above arrangements are generally satisfactory.  However, some
areas required strengthening. SHPC, in consultation with the Bank, therefore
has employed an engineer experienced in management of ICB civil contracts to
assist in the process of establishing SHPC on appropriate lines, train its
staff and generally strengthen SHPC. Further, SHPC's charter has reviewed to
ensvre that it has sufficient autonomy to function as the engineer for the
project. It was found to be satisfactory.
5.33      Assurances have been obtained from FPEPB that, in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants, it will continue to
employ: (a) consultants for design and supervision of construction; and (b) a
Special Board of Consultants for review of designs and construction during the
period of construction.
C. Disbursement
5.34      The Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of local
expenditures, ex-factory, of locally manufactured items; (c) 75% of the cost
of other items procured locally; (d) 70% of total cost of main civil works
procured through ICB; and (e) 100% of the cost of consulting services and
overseas training. For expenditures relating to training and contracts for
goods and services each valued less than $200,000 equivalent, reimbursements
would be maee on the basis of statement of expenditure. Documentation sup-
porting such expenditures need not be submitted to the Bank but should be
retained in FPEPB project office in Fuzhou and made available for review by
Bank supervision missions. To facilitate disbursements under this project, a
Special Account to be maintained in US dollars with an authorized allocation
of US$4.0 million would be established in a bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Applications for replenishment will be submitted
quarterly or when the amounts withdrawn are equal to 50% of the initial
deposit, whichever comes sooner.
5.35      Annex 16 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank
loan. The disbursement period covers the first four years of the construction
period, which constitutes the first phase. In view of the exceptional
financing arrangements for this project (para. 5.18), no comparison with
experiences on other similar Bank projects is possible. The first phase loan
uill be fully utilized as work progresses by the middle of 1991.



- 32 -
5.36      The proposed Bank loan has provision for an amount of up to
$10,000,000 for retroactive financing by expenditures that may be incurred for
the main civil works contract prior to the date of loan signing but after
December 1, 1986.
H. Resettlement
5.37      The Shuiko! reservoir, with a length of about 96 km and a water sur-
face area of 93.5 km , will inundate about 2,100 ha of farmland, some 1,300 ha
of forest, 137,000 fruit trees, about 700 ha of reclaimed and cultivated
wasteland, and about 20,000 houses. The loss of productive land is limited by
the fact that half of the reservoir area is river bed. Additional 547 ha of
land will be necessary at several locations outside the reservoir area for the
construction and operation of the project (about 367 ha) and for project
related or newly developed infrastructure (101 km of highway, transmistion
line tower foundations, 66 km railway relocation, etc.).
5.38      Population.  The reservoir will displace about 63,000 people from
88 villages belonging to 15 townships in three counties and the city of
Nanping. An additional but limited number of people will be relocated from
the 547 ha needed outside the reservoir area. The large majority (77%) of the
affected population is agricultural, with the remainder working in small pro-
ductive enterprises, services and government jobs. Over 58% of this popula-
tion is located in Nanping (city and surroundings). The population estimate
takes into account the growth until the year of actual resettlement. A
resettlement component is included in the project to provide for the full
economic and social re-establishment of the affected population (see also
Annex 17).
5.39      Policy and Planning. The policy framework guiding resettlement
planning and implementation in Shuikou is formulated in the State Council's
"Statute for Land Requisition for Construction Use by the State" (1982) and in
related documents of GPF. The basic principles of this policy aim at enabling
the affected population to become economically and socially re-established on
a sound productive basis, to restore their communities, to attain at least the
same standard of living as prior to relocation and to fully reconstruct and
develop the affected means of production. The inhabitants of an inundated
village are to be resettled in the same county, ans within the same township
if possible, on higher ground at the nearest adjacent location. Relocation at
new sites will aim at preserving the integrity of the original social units --
village communities, neighborhood groups, and extended families. Resettled
persons will be assisted to resume, wherever possible, their original
occupations, or to get training for off-farm employment in new locations.
Compensation will be paid for lost assets and dwellings at realistic levels
(recently increased by governmental decision) and public facilities will be
reconstructed. These policy principles have guided a systematic planning
effort carried out by an interdepartmental task force of CPF as part of the
Shuikou project preparation. This has resulted in a full fledged resettlement
and reconstruction plan, based primarily on agricultural re-development and on
local industries, which is included as a component in the project.



- 33 -
5.40      Compensation.  Under the project, financial resources are provided
to compensate both village entities and family units, so as to enable them to
reconstruct their settlements, productive assets and individual dwellings.
The compensation package is differentiated to meet the situations of various
socio-economic population groups, and takes into account land tenure patterns,
types of land use, and soil quality. The compensation package financed under
the project consists of : (a) compensation for lost agricultural lands,
including rice fields, vegetable lands, orchard lands, forested lands, and
reclaimed (uninventoried) lands; (b) resettlement allowances for relocating
village sites and community infrastructure; (c) compensation for lost
dwellings and other personal assets, including cost of moving; (d) compensa-
tion for moving economic enterprises, plants and institutions; (e) allowances
to individuals for wages lost during moving. Besides cash, compensation will
also be given in kind, in the form of substitute lands allocated for
reclamation and introduction into the productive agricultural circuit, and
also as grain rations to help relocated farmers to meet their consumption
needs until the new lands become productive. The payments of various types of
compensation and allowances will be made both to local (village) governments
and to household heads, as appropriate, to ensure the active and joint
involvement of both local authorities and affected families in reconstruction
(for details see Annex 17, Tables 1 and 2).
5.41      Agricultural Redevelopment is the core of the resettlement
component. A diversified agricultural package was designed to restore the
productive natural base of the relocated population. Availability of sub-
stitute lands was ensured through systematic identification of large tracts of
land currently uncultivated but which have agricultural potential or are
suitable for reforestation, and of suitable sites for implanting the new
villages. The project has identified and will bring under cultivation about
2,340 ha of hilly lands covertible into farmland, about 500 ha of hilly lands
suitable for orchards and about 1,060 ha adequate for planting economic trees
(Annex 17, Table 3). In each category the new lands represent an area equal
or significantly larger than the one lost by reservoir submergence for similar
production. Replacement of agricultural land has been sought for all crop
lands in the reservoir area subject to one-in-two-years floods.
5.42      The alternative agricultural packages envisaged under the project
consist of different mixes of grain crops, vegetables, fruit trees, animal
husbandry, fish ponds and managed forests. For villages in which a small part
of land is to be submerged, cultivated fields will predominate, with less crop
diversification and forestry; for villages where all or most of the land will
be submerged, hill cultivation will predominate with orchards and managed
forests; for villages with little hillsides or fields to plant, emphasis will
be placed on alternative activities like animal husbandry, fishing, and small
industries. Provisions for financing land reclamation and site improvement
works are included in the project. Taking into account the lower quality of
the soil and poor illumination on the hillsides, technological packages for
artificial soil improvement through crop rotations and planting of leguminous
crops, to promote soil catabolism and increase the thickness of the plowable
layer, have been prepared and will be promoted among the area farmers with the
assistance of agricultural technicians.



- 34 -
5.43      Reforestation.  A substantial development will be achieved in fruit
tree planting, economic trees and in reforestation for timber. Orchard
development will include land terracing and planting of orange, mandarin,
peach, plum, pear, persimmon, olive and banana trees. Economic trees will
include tea-oil and tung oil trees, tea, green bamboo and others. For timber
reforestation with China fir and pine, a much larger suitable area (over
39,000 ha) than the submerged forest area was identified; given the heavy
investment of work and capital required only a part of the new land (in excess
of the forest lost) will be planted during the project and planting will be
continued subsequently.
5.44      Pisciculture.  Development of pisciculture around the reservoir will
considerably exceed the pre-project level, both through using the fishery
potential of the reservoir and through the development of artificial fish
ponds financed by the project in newly established villages. While the
reservoir will submerge a total of 47 mu of existing fishponds, in the Nanping
city reservoir area alone 133 mu of fish-raising ponds will be established.
5.45      The overall productive re-establishment of the affected agricultural
population will result in about 76% of the total numbers of people maintaining
their prior farming and animal husbandry occupations, including forestry work
and fishing, while about 24% will be occupied in village industries, services,
administrative jobs, etc. Attention has been given in planning to an
effective social and professional integration of the resettlers among the host
area population.
5.46      Village Reconstruction.  Sites have been identified and selected for
all the new villages, with due regard to availability of water, health
conditions, and vicinity to agricultural fields; connecting roads will be
build wherever necessary. Basic civil works for village construction (land
leveling, site planning, etc) are the responsibility of village governments,
which employ contractors recruited through local competitive bidding, while
house contruction is the responsibility of each individual family, through
self-help or building contractors. Dwelling plots are allocated to each
family; dwelling designs are open to choice and new dwellings are usually
planned to exceed the floor area and the amenities of prior dwellings. State
controlled scarce construction materials (steel, cement, timber) are made
available to resettlers for house construction at official prices.
5.47      Urban Resettlement and Nanping City Protection.  The population
inhabiting the lower part of Nanping city at the tail of the reservoir will be
resettled elsewhere in the city (about 100,000 square meters of houses).
Plans for increased protection of Nanping city include: (a) raising the
elevation of one street in the business district by one meter; (b) construct-
ing a dike to protect the river banks between the normal elevation of the
river and the 20-year flood backwater curve of the reservoir; (c) redesigning
the crest elevation of the part of the dike upstream of the Nanping footbridge
to accommodate aditional flooding caused by the encroachment of its foundation
on the channel; (d) reconstructing parts of the business district; and
(e) operating the reservoir at El. 61 m (4 m below the normal storage level)
during the flood season.



- 35 -
5.48      Timetable.  The timetable for population relocation out of the
reservoir site is synchronized with the schedule of the key stages of dam
construction, the elevations of the flood level behind the cofferdams and the
main dam, the vertical distribution of villages and the various
infrastructural items in the reservoir areas. The resettlement process
started in 1986 with about 1,000 persons inhabiting the construction site. By
the closing day of the first coffer dam (October 1989), about 21,000 people
must be relocated and by the closing day of the second cofferdam (October
1991) additional 32,000 people located within the flooding level of this
cofferdam must also be resettled. The resettlement chronogram as shown in
Table 5.4 is designed to ensure a safe lead time over these deadlines, so as
to not impede construction progress and to allow a gradual pace in
relocation. On a year-by-year basis, the timetable will provide for the
following resettlement flow (and for the corresponding flow of financial
outlays to be disbursed to the project's resettlement budget from the central
funds assigned to cover resettlement costs):
Table 5.4: CHRONOGRAM FOR RESETTLEMENT /a
Calendar year        1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   Total
Persons to be
resettled         1,014  10,000  10,000  11,000  10,000  10,500  10,000  62,514
Cumulative
total                    11,014  21,014  32,014  42,014  52,514  62,514  62,514
Investment in
resettlement
(Thou. Yuan)/b  44,199  68,245  92,285  95,291  98,214 105,635   9,016 512,975
/a   See Annex 17, Table 6 for details.
7i  Costs include physical and price contingencies.
5.49      Organization.  The implementation of the resettlement plan will be
the responsibility of the GPF, which has, in April 1986, set up a Resettlement
Office for the Shuikon project. The Resettlement Office comprises four
Divisions, viz. (a) the Secretary; (b) Planning and Financial Affairs;
(c) Resettlement of State-owned Enterprises; and (d) Land Acquisitions and
Resettlement of Agricultural Inhabitants. This independent office will
cooperate closely with SHPC. It will have one consolidated budget covering
the entire costs of resettlement and will be assisted by the line bureaus of
the provincial and county governments. Resettlement offices will also be
created under each county government. The provincial Resettlement Office will
also arrange for reporting and monitoring of resettlement progress and of the
restoration of the productive base and welfare of the dislocated population,
at quarterly intervals, as well as for the necessary studies and the mid-term
review of resettlement impact.



- 36 -
5.50      Responsibility for planning and carrying out resettlement from the
dam site and from rail and road relocation routes has been delegated to SHPC
and the rail and highway contractors respectively. Land acquisition for
railway relocation which is a critical element in the project schedule has
begun on schedule and is progressing well. Resettlement actions taken since
appraisal were reviewed and were found to be satisfactory. Assurances have
been obtained from COC that it will carry out or caused to be carried out a
resettlement program satisfactory to the Bank.
I. Environmental Aspects
5.51      No major environmental problems are expected under this project.
The Min river basin has a good vegetative cover especially in the upper
reaches, is well cultivated and has i light sedimentation rate. The average
annual sediment charge is 0.143 kg/m and the average annual sediment dis-
charge, including bed load, is about 8.6 million tons, most of which is
carried during the flood season. Detailed evaluation of sedimentation is
Shuikou reservoir has been carried out taking account of the influence of
upstream reservoirs, including Shaxikou now under construction. They show
that only about 3.4% of the gross storage capacity and none of the live
storage would be lost in the first 30 years of operation.
Environmental Basis for Choice of High Water Level
5.52      The choice of high water level of the Shuikou reservoir was
influenced by the strong penalties for raising its dry-season water levels
above elevation 65 m or for raising flood season water levels above elevation
61 m because: (i) tailrace elevations of three upstream dams are located
between elevations 64 m and 65.81 m; (ii) Nanping City lies between elevations
71 m and 80 m and the 20-year flood-season backwater curve reaches elevations
74.52 m at the city; and (iii) the backwater of the 20-year flood from eleva-
tion 65 m at the dam site will affect 18.12 km of railway that will not be
affected by the backwater of the 20-year flood from elevation 61 m at the dam
site. Most reservoir area farm land and people are located low in the reser-
voir area, i.e., below elevation 56 m so that the environmental benefit of
keeping the reservoir level below elevations 61-65 m would be more than offset
by the associated power losses.
Conditions and Trends in the Catchment Area that May Affect the Reservoir
5.53      A number of conditions and trends in the catchment area are
especially important for the reservoir life and other aspects of the Shuikou
Project because of the small size of its live storage capacity (700 mil-
lion m ). Those which appear to be fairly well understood and documented for
the Shuikou catchment area are precipitation, discharge, suspended load,
demography, land use, forest cover, erosion, topography, other dams, forest
fires, disease and pest outbreaks and consumptive withdrawals. Those which
appear to be less well understood at present are the volume of standing timber
and the voume of bed load transport. Given these understandings and first-
hand observations at the time of appraisal it is clear that the service life
of the project will be very long (para. 5.51). Consumptive withdrawals of
water from the Min River and its tributaries are not routinely monitored by



- 37 -
any government agency but are not expected to adversely affect the reservoir
during periods of low flow. The main consumptive withdrawal appears to be for
irrigation of crops. The period of low flow occurs during the winter
(November to January) when there is virtually no irrigation demand. Most
irrigation occurs in July, August, and September when flows at the dam site
are 200-300X of the November to January low flows.
Downstream Effects
5.54      Dam volume, discharge at the dam site, evaporation from the
reservoir, suspended load, the trap coefficient of the reservoir, ship locks
in the dams, operating rules of the power station, and the distribution of
eels and other fish in the river appear to be such that downstream impacts
will not be serious and downstream benefits, except for navigation, will not
be large. Impacts and benefits considered include declines in estuarine
fisheries, fish mortality, salt water intrusion, benefits to navigation, flood
control, bank and channel erosion, fluctuations in water levels, increased
salinity of reservoir water, impacts on eel populations, and impacts on an
$8 million per year eel export business.
Water Quality, Public Health and Aquatic Weeds
5.55      Water quality, public health, and aquatic weed problems are not
expected to be serious because the reservoir area will be cleared before
impounding. Government authorities and the public seem to be aware of the
risks of malaria, schistosomiasis, and filiariasis and to be routinely imple-
menting preventive measures. The project has no irrigation component. An
inventory and monitoring of toxic substances used in the catchment area has
been recommended by the Bank and agreed by the project authorities.
Secondary Developments
5.56      Potential secondary developments associated with the reservoir
include:  drawdown agriculture on 133 ha of land near the dam site between
ele-ation 65 m and the backwater curve of the 2-year flood extending from
elevation 61 m at the dam site; reservoir fisheries that seem likely to be
large in comparison with existing yields of Min river fisheries, but small in
comparison with the economic value of eel fingerlings exported to Japan (worth
US$8 million); expanded and improved navigation facilities; some recreation
and tourism and third industries and subordinate businesses.
J. Monitoring and Reporting
5.57      Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project
in terms of physical execution of the project, resettlement and other environ-
mental related activities and audited financial reports (para. 3.18) were
agreed. A monitoring and Evaluation unit will be established within the
Secretairat Division (para. 5.49) of the Resettlement Office. A special list
of resettlement and environment action items for monitoring and reporting has
been prepared and is at Annex 17. Quarterly progress reports on the project
and a completion report will be submitted by FPEPB.



- 38 -
K. Risks
5.58      The risks associated with most hydroelectric projects are uncertain-
ties in geological, hydrological and related aspects; they are minimal in this
case and further reduced by very extensive investigations and competent
engineering. The risk of delay in construction is inherent in a large project
such as Shuikou, but the concentration of main civil works into a single ICB
contract, facilitation of imports of all construction equipment and materials
in short supply in China, and arrangements made for effective construction and
contract supervision should keep them to a minimum. The progress of the
parallel railway relocation project requires careful observation and control
during the early years. If this work is executed on schedule, and financing
of the second phase of construction (from 1991 onwards) is ensured, the
project should not encounter any major difficulties during construction.
Assurances have been obtained from FPEPB that it will prepare at least one
year ahead of completion of the dam, a program of annual maintenance of the
project works, which is satisfactory to the Bank, undertake periodic
inspections of the dam and associated works using independent experts whose
qualifications and experience will be reviewed with the Bank and to implement
their recommendations.
VI. FINANCE
A. Background
6.01      In common with all Chinese state-owned enterprises, FPEPB is bound
by the financial regulations established by GOC. It has performed in a finan-
cially responsible manner within the framework of a centrally planned economy
where its operational and investment budgets require approval from the Govern-
ment, its tariffs are controlled and virtually all its surpluses are remit-
ted. Due to these arrangements the power bureau has limited incentive to
realize revenues in excess of its obligations.
6.02      While the financial system is still adequate for current economic
conditions, the Government has recognized the need for adjustments to accommo-
date changes brought about by its economic reform program. Major steps taken
by GOC such as replacing 100% grant financing of capital investments by 10O%
loan financing since the early 1980s, the recent relaxation in the control
over electricity tariffs and other prices and the effect of inflation will
soon have major impacts on FPEPB's finances. In order to assist GOC to deal
with these changes, short-term study tours for senior officials of relevant
governmental units are being designed under two earlier Bank-financed power
projects (Beilungang thermal project and Yantan hydroelectric project) so that
exposure to the systematic approaches used by modern utilities to cope with
inflation and extensive use of debt for financing investments can be gained.
The proposed loan will also include a similar component to further such assi-
stance (para. 5.12). In addition, Bank staff have worked with MWREP and FPEPB
personnel to explain the approach and methoeology employed in financial plan-
ning and have assisted FPEPB in the development of a ten-year financial fore-
cast model to enable it to extend its planning horizon.



- 39 -
B. Past and Present Financial Performance
6.03      Consolidated financial statements for FPEPB for the five years 1981
through 1985 are at Annex 18 and summarized in Table 6.1 below. The balance
sheets have been adjusted to reflect construction work-in-progress carried on
the books of FPEPB's own construction units as well as those of independent
construction enterprises acting as contractors for FPEPB (para. 3.15-3.16).
Table 6.1: FPEPB'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1981-1985
(in millions of current Yuan)
Year ended December 31                 1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
Electricity sales (GWh)              3,212    3,475    3,656    3,965    4,483
Average revenue (fen/KWh)               6.9      6.8       6.9      7.1       7.3
Operating revenue                       220      237       252      280       326
Operating income                         98      103       107       89        97
Net income /a                            98      103        52       39        50
Net fixed assets in operation           700      722       731      872       892
Capital expenditure                      39       90       154      211       242
Operating ratio (X)                      55       57        58       68        70
Rate of return (Z) /b                  14.0     14.4      14.7     11.6      11.4
Debt service coverage                    28       26        27       25         8
Current ratio                           2.2      2.6       2.6      1.8       2.3
Debt as Z of debt and equity            7.8     10.2      20.1     20.3      29.1
Inflation rate (X)                      2.4      1.9       1.5      2.8       8.8
/a   Operating income less interest charged to operations and income tax
assessed at 55% of taxable income.  Under Chinese practice, debt
repayment obligations are to be met from funds accumulated in part from
depreciation provisions and the balance from retention of net income.
The amount of debt repayment met from the latter source is also
deductible in calculating taxable income. The income tax law was intro-
duced and became effective in 1983.
/b   Based on historically valued average net fixed assets in operation.
6.04      During the period 1981-1985, FPEPB's energy sales increased by about
40% while revenues increased by 48%. Although the tariff schedule has not
been adjusted during that period, average revenue per kWh increased by about
6%, reflecting a modest growth in the higher priced domestic and commercial
markets (consumption up from 13% to 16% of total), and the phasing out of
subsidies to certain large industrial customers (para. 3.20). Operating
income and rate of return on average net fixed assets peaked in 1983, mainly
due to the exceptionally high hydro generation which was 13% higher than the
average of all other years during the five year period. The declines of these



- 40 -
indicators during 1984 and 1985 were brought about by growth in thermal
generation and price increases of fuel and purchased power. From 1983 to
1985, thermal generation and volume of purchased power increased by 82Z and
86% while their respective costs increased 116Z and 1201.
6.05      Although FPEPB's financial picture has changed over the past five
years to reflect the impact of price reforms and debt financing, the financial
condition of the power bureau is still sound; the proportion of debt is still
modest, the liquidity situation is comfortable, and the average revenue per
kWh sold (7.3 fen or US¢2.3) is sufficient to cover the bureau's operating
requirements and to provide substantial revenues to the Government.
Valuation of Assets
6.06      Up to the present, only a portion of capital construction expendi-
tures (about 75% for hydro plants and 93% for thermal plants) was transferred
from the books of construction units to operating units upon project
completion. The uncapitalized balance comprised mainly costs of investments
transferred to other entities (such as roads), costs to be written off (such
as training costs and medical expenses), residual value of construction
equipment retained by construction units, inventory losses due to natural
disasters and unsuccessful projects. As a result of this practice, FPEPB's
existing fixed assets are understated. However, for future projects which are
financed by loans made or onlent directly to the bureau, the full cost of
construction will be reflected in FPEPB's fixed assets accounts.
6.07      The Chinese financial system does not recognize the concept of
revaluation of fixed assets. While revaluation would have limited impact on
FPEPB's existing asset values because inflation in China in the past has been
low and fixed assets in the power sector have negligible foreign content, the
concept will become increasingly relevant due to changes in the price
structure. This question cannot be addressed in the context of this project,
but will be discussed as part of the continuing policy dialogue between the
Bank, MOF and SAA.
C. Future Finances
6.08      Projections of FPEPB's financial performance for the period 1986-
1995 are presented in Annex 19 and summarized in Table 6.2. Assumptions used
in the financial forecasts are given in Annex 20. In light of MWREP and
FPEPB's anticipation that Fujian, being a coastal province which is undergoing
relatively rapid growth (para. 4.12), will be able to adopt a more liberal
tariff policy as compared to other provincial power bureaus, the average
revenues are projected to be higher than the minimum average tariffs FPEPB
needs to breakeven (Annex 20 A.4).



- 41 -
Table 6.2: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1986-1995
(Million Yuan)
Year ended December 31,         1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    1995
Energy sales (GWh)             4,780  5,160  6,200  6,315  6,328  6,428  6,559  6,663  8,764  10,637
Average revenue (fen/kWh)        7.4    8.0    9.0    9.2    9.3    9.4    9.6    9.8   11.0    12.0
Operating revenue                354    413    558    581    589    604    630    653    964   1,276
Operating income                  84    100    164    170    174    175    172    186    405          587
Net income                        41     54      89      89     96    104    123    130    247        340
Fixed assets in operation    1,011  1,508  1,652  1,685  1,815  1,847  1,878  3,144  4,823   6,041
Long-term debt                   812  1,311  1,566  1,809  2,275  2,996  3,656  4,237  4,690   4,964
Capital expenditure              483    581    415    413    641    906    850    814    802          724
Debt service                      21     35      88      92     98    100    134    133    239        348
Cash on hand                      24     30      44      56     67      79     84    101    126       159
Operating ratio (7) 76                   76      71      71     70      71     73      72      58      54
Rate of return (Z)
- on historically valued
assets                      8.9    7.9   10.4   10.2    9.9    9.5    9.2    7.4   10.2    10.8
- on notionally revalued
assets                       5.5    5.0    6.6    6.2    5.7    5.3    5.0    4.4    6.9          7.7
Self-financing ratio (X) /a       17     17      30      31     22      18     11      18     33       43
Debt service coverage            4.0    3.0    2.0    2.0    1.9    2.0    1.7    1.7    1.7          1.7
Debt as % of debt and equity    45       56      58      59     62      66     69      70     69       67
/a   Includes remittances to Government (excess of earnings over amounts permitted or required to
be retained) as part of internally generated cash.
6.09      During the period 1986-1995, the Fujian power system is projected to
maintain high rates of growth. Up to 1988, FPEPB's sales are projected to
grow at an annual rate of about 11.4%, and net fixed assets in operations are
expected to increase by 231 p.a. over the current level. However, during the
1989-1993 period, the bulk of projected increases in demand is expected to be
met by FTPS, a plant in Fujian province which is being built and operated
outside the jurisdiction of FPEPB (paras. 4.15-4.17). As a result, FPEPB is
projected to experience very little growth over the 1988 level. Because
FPEPB's flexibility to increase its tariffs to reflect increased cce!s is
largely determined by the magnitude of its incremental sales according to the
current MWREP provisional guidelines, the power bureau will have limited scope
for increasing its average revenues over this five year period and its rate of
return is projected to drop steadily from 10.4% in 1988 to 7.4% in 1993.
6.10      From 1994 on, FPEPB's performance is expected to improve dramati-
cally as the Shuikou hydroelectric plant becomes operational. Sales and
revenues are expected to grow as the market is expanded to serve the East
China Grid as well. The magnitude of sales increase is expected to average at



- 42 -
about 25% for 1994 and 1995. This will provide FPEPB scope for increasing its
average revenues substantially.
6.11      On the basis of these projected sales and revenues, the forecasts
show that FPEPB would continue to produce satisfactory financial results
through 1995. Over the ten year forecast period, the average rate of return
on historically value4 net fixed asset is expected to be 9.4% and the self-
financing ratio 24X.= While these indicators continue to be satisfactory,
FPEPB faces many uncertainties which might prevent it from actually achieving
these results. They are: (a) the lack of a clear procedure and experience to
implement power rate increases; (b) institutional changes introduced through
the economic reform program; and (c) arrangements to be made for sales of
Shuikou power to East China and for the operation of FTPS. In order to enable
FPEPB to deal with its potential financial problems effectively, the bureau
needs to adopt a systematic approach to planning its financial affairs and to
extend its planning horizon (para. 6.02). Assurances have been obtained that
by December 31 of each year commencing December 31, 1987 it will furnish to
the Bank a financial plan containing forecast income statements, sources and
uses of funds, and balance sheets for the next five years. In addition, an
understanding was reached that FPEPB would furnish to the Bank financial
projections for five years subsequent to the period of the aforementioned
financial plans.
6.12      With the aid of such a plan, FPEPB will be better equipped to
initiate and monitor the measures necessary to maintain a sound financial
condition. Assurances have been obtained that FPEPB will take measures,
including but not limited to tariff adjustments, to ensure that its operating
revenues are sufficient to meet the aggregate of its total operating expenses
and the amount by which its financial obligations exceed depreciation and non-
cash operating expenses. Thus, FPEPB's operating revenues will need to
cover: (i) costs directly chargeable to operations including provisions for
depreciation and allocations to the Maintenance Special Fund; (ii) interest
chargeable to operations; (iii) income tax; (iv) debt repayment in excess of
the amount repayable from the provisions for depreciation; (v) required
allocation from net income to the Employee Benefits Special Fund; and
(vi) required increase in working capital. To further encourage prudent
financial management, assurances have been obtained that it may incur addi-
tional debt only if a reasonable forecast shows that its internal cash
generation would provide a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times.
Financing Plan
6.13      FPEPB's financing plan for the project construction period 1986-1995
is shown in the following Table 6.3. The investment program as shown does not
include capital requirements of FTPS and four other small hydro plants
(Annex 9) to be constructed and owned by HIPDC and counties respectively.
2/   If remittances to Government (Table 6.2 /a) were not included as part of
internally generated cash, FPEPB's self-financing ratio for this period
would be 18%.



- 43 -
Table 6.3: FPEPB'S FINANCING PLAN 1986-1995
RMB Y million     US$million/a    Z
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation                     2,397               648        36
Distribution Expansion Special Fund            598               162         9
(less) Operational requirements              1,807               488        27
(less) increase in cash                        137                37         2
Funds Available for Investment               1,051               285        16
Proposed IBRD loan (Phase I)                   518               140         8
Other Shuikou project loans                  3,363               909        51
All other loans                              1,697               459        25
Total borrowings                         5,578             1j508        84
Total Sources of Funds /b                6,629             1,792       100
Application of Funds
Proposed Shuikou project                     3,023               817        45
Other construction                           1,579               427        24
Interest during construction                   977               264        15
Distribution expansion                         516               139         8
Renovations and minor expansions               535               145         8
Total Application of Funds /b            6,629             1,792       100
/a   US$1.0 = RMB Y 3.7.
7b   Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
6.14      Under the Chinese financial system, FPEPB is able to use internally
generated funds and consumer connection receipts for investments for expansion
of distribution system (para. 3.21) and ggnovations and minor expansions which
must be financed from the special funds _!' earmarked for those purposes.
Together, these two components comprise about 16% of FPEPB's investment
program for the period 1986-1995. Major projects for expansion of generation
and transmission which represent the balance of FPEPB's investment program are
required to be financed by loans. The proposed project, including interest
3/   FPEPB's accounts contain four separate categories of special funds:
(i) maintenance; (ii) employee benefits; (iii) renovations and minor
expansions; and (iv) distribution expansion. Each special fund is
earmarked for distinct purpose and is funded from net revenues or cash
receipts in amounts which are established according to regulations.



- 44 -
during construction, accounts for about 58Z of the program. The proposed Bank
loan will meet the full foreign exchange requirement (excluding IDC) of the
Shuikou project for the years 1987-1990. It represents about 8X of FPEPB's
financing requirements. The detailed financing plan for the proposed project
is discussed in para. 5.19.
6.15      Besides the Shuikou project, the ongoing Shaxikou hydroelectric
project also has a foreign exchange component, financed by a soft loan from
the Government of Kuwait (about US$30 million). For the balance of FPEPB's
expansion program, the bureau will borrow all requirements in local currency
from the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) and provincial/local
governments or local banks. Only projects included in the approved state
plans are eligible for PCBC loans which bear annual interest of 3.6%.
Secondary investments approved by MWREP but not incorporated in the State
plans are subject to various lending terms according to the source of funds.
In general, they are less liberal than PCBC terms (Annex 20, C.2).
Power Sales to East China
6.16      As noted in para. 5.01 the Shuikou hydroelectric project is being
built by FPEPB to serve not only FPC but also ECC. In fact, the planned sales
to East China account for a substantial portion of the dependable capacity
(861) and the firm energy output (about 50%) of the project. Although there
are understandings in this regard to quantities and expected basis of pricing
between FPEPB and ECEPA, a formal sales contract between the two parties will
not be entered into until shortly before the Shuikou plant begins operation at
the end of 1993. As FPEPB's future financial performance depends heavily on
the bureau's ability to recover the portion of the full cost of building and
operating the Shuikou project facilities from sales revenues from ECEPA for
its share of firm energy purchase, certain important principles should be
clearly agreed at this stage even though ECEPA's key financial indicators for
1981-85 as shown in Annex 21 demonstrate that the East China system is
financially viable and large enough to absorb these costs. It is also
important that charges should be levied on a functional basis separately
for: (a) peaking capacity; (b) firm energy; and (c) secondary energy.
Accordingly, a written statement which describes the principles governing the
sale of Shuikou power to ECEPA, covering, inter alia, quantities of capacity
and energy to be supplied, the points of supply, time periods, and principles
to be applied in determining the tariff was furnished to the Bank. Assurances
have also been obtained that a contract satisfactory to the Bank will be
entered into between FPEPB and ECEPA prior to commissioning of the Shuikou
project and that the Government would make all efforts necessary to enable
FPEPB to implement the above agreement including causing ECEPA to enter into
and implement this contract.



- 45 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. Need for the Project
7.01      As discussed earlier (para. 4.10), the demand forecasts for each
province in China are developed as part of an integrated economic development
planning process which takes into account both the interdependencies between
sectors, a shift towards less electricity intensive activities, extensive
improvements in energy conservation and overall financial resource con-
straints. This long-term planning process focusses particularly on the
coordinated expansion of basic infrastructure, such as energy, transportation
and communications, which are largely the responsibility of the central
government, as a stimulus for attracting industrial investments by provincial,
local, private and foreign entities. To avoid a constraint on economic
development, it would be necessary for each regional and provincial power grid
to meet at least the official load forecast. For the provinces to be served
by the project, viz. Zhejiang, Anhui, Jiangau, Fujian and the Shanghai
Municipality, demand forecasts are considered to be reasonable.
7.02      The Shuikou project will serve areas supplied by ECG and FPG.  The
peak demands of the two systems are forecast to increase from their 1985 level
of 10,000 MW and 963 MW to 24,200 MW and 2,600 MW respectively by 1995. To
serve this load, the future power system expansion of the region is based on
the strategy of using coal as the primary source of energy and using
hydropower for meeting the peak loads. The committed expansion programs in
both grid areas have a preponderance of large coal fired thermal plants. In
view of this, there is an urgent need for a complementary hydroelectric
peaking stations like the Shuikou power station for balanced system
development. The Shuikou site is the only sizable hydro project with a
geographically convenient location.
Indirect Benefits
7.03      The Shuikou project will additionally assist in the resolution of a
transportation bottleneck that is currently constraining the development of
the Min river basin. Thus, as indicated in para. 5.06, the parallel Waiyang-
Fuzhou railway relocation project will expand the capacity of this railway
from its current limiting level of 4.7 million tons/year to 8.0 million
tons/year by 1990. This increase is needed to meet the projected increases in
demand. The economic evaluation of the railway relocation project is
presented in Annex 22. The project will also bring about an improvement in
the navigational conditions on the Min river between Nanping and Fuzhou, which
will allow the capacity of river transport to increase from its current level
of 200-300 thousand tons/year to about three million tons/year. A description
of the benefits brought about by these navigational improvements is presented
in Annex 23.
B. Least Cost Studies
7.04      The evaluation of the Shuikou project has been carried out in the
context of a comprehensive program of studies of the options available to the



- 46 -
ECC, which include the development of the last remaining hydroelectric sites
in East China, the construction of mine-mouth coal fired power plants to take
advantage the remaining developable coal resources in interior of the region,
the construction of large thermal plants near coastal load centers based on
coal shipped from North China, nuclear power, gas turbines, and long-distance
transmission from other regions. These studies provided the analytical basis
for EGG's expansion strategy based on using coal as the primary source of
energy and using hydropower for meeting peak toad. Given this overall
context, the major alternatives for the provision of peak power include, in
addition to the Shuikou project, the introduction of gas turbines and the
development of other hydro sites in the region.
7.05      The evaluation of the gas turbine alternative formed part of
preliminary design study of the Shuikou hydroelectric project. That study
compared the costs of the Shuikou project with those of a combination of a
4 x 150 MW gas turbine plant located at the load center with a 2 x 125 MW
mine-mouth coal-fired plant in Fujian and a 2 x 300 MW mine-mouth plant in
Anhui. The gas turbines were assumed to be used only at peak, with a plant
factor of 15%. The coal-fired plants were assumed to be used for base load9
Due to the absence of natural gas in the region the gas turbine was postulated
to use industrial diesel oil. The cost stream associated with this
combination was compared with that of the Shuikou project and found to be
significantly higher for a range of discount rates from 8X to 15x.
7.06      Of the remaining undeveloped hydro sites, the potentially major
Anfengqiao site in Fujian was eliminated from consideration at an early stage
due to difficult resettlement problems. The 4 x 150 MW Mien Hua Tan project
in Fujian also involves complex settlement arrangements and other problems of
riparian rights which make it infeasible to count on its availability before
1996. The 4 x 150 MW Tang Keng site in Zhejiang is being developed in
parallel to the Shuikou project, and the commissioning of its first stage is
scheduled for late 1993. The only other hydroelectric alternative to the
Shuikou project is the 6 x 75 MW Nandafu pumped storage project in Jiangsu
province.
7.07      The evaluation of the pumped storage option was based on combining
the 450 MW Nandafu site with a 300 MW coal-fired plant in Fujian and another 2
x 350 MW coal fired plant in ECG, for a total installed capacity of 1,450 MW,
to obtain performance characteristics matching those of the Shuikou project.
In this combination, the 450 MW of peak capacity at Nandafu is estimated to
divert 2,550 MW of thermal capacity from peak operation into base load, and
the 1,000 MW of new thermal plants would replace the same capacity in old
units, with attendant improvements in fuel efficiency. The Nandafu plant
would however use about 43X more energy for pumping (at off-peak times) than
it will generate at peak, thus reducing the savings from fuel efficiency. A
comparison of the resulting cost stream with that of the Shuikou project
indicates that the present value of total costs of the Shuikou project are
lower than that of the pumped storage alternative at discount rates up to
14.2%.
7.08      To assist in the appraisal of the Shuikou project, and following
upon training received from IAEA through the Bank's third power project



- 47 -
(paras. 2.13 and 4.14), the choice of the Shuikou project was furtogr
evaluated by WREPERI using the WASP III generation planning model.:' The
study was based on least cost analysis with identified candidate plants and
their direct and associated costs, capacity/energy balances, power flows and
loading order (see Annex 24 for details).
7.09      The results of the above study support the conclusion that the
Shuikou project should be commissioned as soon as possible. It is the only
major hydro project with a geographically convenient location and its peaking
value is urgently needed to balance the preponderantly coal-fired East China
system.
C. Economic Rate of Return
7.10      The internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the project was
calculated using the estimated economic prices of inputs (shadow priced
capital cost of generating plant, associated transmission and resettlement,
operation and maintenance cost, and distribution cost) and valuing the output
at the cost of providing peak energy using the next best project -- the
Nandafu pumped storage scheme. On this basis, the IERR of the project is 15%
(see Annex 23 for details).
7.11      As an alternative, the IERR of the project was also calculated
valuing the output at the projected average revenue by 1995 for FPEPB
(deflated to 1985 levels) -- an approach which significantly underestimates
the value of the Shuikou project as a supplier of electricity at peak. On
this basis, the IERR of the project is 8% (Annex 23). The result indicates
that the tariff level based on financial requirements is low compared with the
incremental cost of electricity at peak, as reflected by the cost of the
Iandafu pumped storage alternative. It has already been agreed that the issue
of the adequacy of the tariff level will be addressed in the tariff study
included under the third Bank power loan for the Beilungang thermal power
project.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.12      The sensitivity of the IERR of the project with respect to a 10%
increase in investment cost or a one year delay in commissioning is as
follows:
IERR (X)
Base case                        15
10% cost overrun                 14
One year delay in
commissioning                  14
4/   See report on "Economic Analysis of the Shuikou Hydroelectric Power Plant
based on the Optimal Expansion of the East China and Fujian Systems"
WREPERI, January 1986.



- 48 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances have been obtained:
(a)  from the Government that it will:
(i)    make all efforts necessary to enable FPEPB to enter into and
implement the FTPS and implement power purchase agreement
including causing HIPDC to enter into and implement this
agreement (para. 4.15);
(ii)    onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to FPEPB on terms
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.21);
(iii)    take all steps necessary to ensure that the permanent railway
relocation shall be carried out in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices and completed in a timely manner in
meeting the Shuikou project schedules, and furnish to the Bank
from time to time such information related thereto as the Bank
shall reasonably request (para. 5.28);
(iv)    carry out or cause to be carried out a resettlement program
satisfactory to the-Bank (para. 5.50); and
(v)    make all efforts necessary to enable FPEPB to enter into and
implement the agreement for the sale of Shuikou power to ECEPA,
including causing ECEPA to enter into and implement this
contract (para. 6.16).
(b) from FPEPB that it will:
(i)    furnish its annual financial statements, certified by an
acceptable auditor to the Bank within six months of the end of
each financial year (para. 3.18);
(ii)    carry out studies of regional integrated operation in
accordance with terms of reference and timing agreed with the
Bank (para. 5.11);
(iii)    carry out training in accordance with a program satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 5.12);
(iv)    continue to employ consultants for design and supervision of
construction and a Board of Consultants for review of designs
and construction under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 5.33);
(v)    prepare a program of annual maintenance of the project works
satisfactory to the Bank and undertake periodic inspection of



- 49 -
the dam and associated works using independent experts whose
qualifications and experience will be reviewed by the Bank and
to implement their recommendations (para. 5.58);
(vi)    furnish to the Bank by December 31 of each year commencing
December 31, 1987 its financial plan containing forecast income
statements, sources and uses of funds and balance sheets for
the next five years and a financial projection for five years
subsequent to the period of the financial plan (para. 6.11);
(vii)    take all measures, including but not limited to tariff adjust-
ments, to ensure that its operating revenues are sufficient to
cover its operational requirements (para. 6.12);
(viii)    incur additional debt e"ly if a reasonable forecast shows that
its internal cash gen".-ion would provide a debt service
coverage of at least 1.3 times (para. 6.12); and
(ix)    enter into a purchase agreement with HIPDC (para. 4.15) and a
sales agreement with ECEPA (para. 6.16) prior to commissioning
of FTPS and the Shuikou project in accordance with principles
satisfactory to the Bank.
8.02      Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and FPEPB and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State Council would be
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 5.21).
8.03      Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$140.0 million to the People's Republic of China. The
loan would be for a term of 20 years including a 5-year grace period, at the
standard variable interest rate.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation and Sales in the Power Subsector
Energy
Installed capacity (MW)      Energy generation (GWh)    sales
Year              Hydro   Thermal    Total       Hydro  Thermal   Total    (GWh)
1949                 163    1,686    1,849         710    3,600    4,310    3,460
1952                 188    1,776    1,964       1,260    6,001    7,261    6,277
1957               1,019    3,616    4,635       4,820   14,515   19,335   16,407
1962               2,379   10,686   13,065       9,042   36,753   45,795      N.A.
1965               3,020   12,056   15,076    10,414   57,190   67,604   56,802
1970               6,235   17,535   23,770    20,450   95,420  115,870        N.A.
1971               7,804   18,478   26,282    25,060  113,300  138,360  101,274
1972               8,700   20,801   29,501    28,820  123,630  152,450  123,600
1973              10,299   23,626   33,925    38,900  127,860  166,760  135,106
1974              11,817   26,291   38,108    41,440  127,410  168,850  135,708
1975              13,428   29,978   43,406    47,630  148,210  195,840  156,969
1976              14,655   32,492   47,147    45,640  157,490  203,130  164,698
1977              15,765   35,686   51,451    47,670  175,740  223,410  181,691
1978              17,277   39,845   57,122    44,630  211,920  256,550  210,239
1979              19,110   43,906   63,016    50,120  231,827  281,947  233,577
1980              20,318   45,551   65,869    58,211  242,416  300,627  257,300
1981              21,933   47,069   69,002    65,546  243,723  309,269  263,410
1982              22,959   49,401   72,360    74,399  253,279  327,678  280,080
1983              24,160   52,280   76,440    86,450  264,990  351,440  301,600
1984              25,547   54,373   79,920    86,780  290,210  376,990  319,010
1985              26,260   60,040   86,300    91,500  315,800  407,300  330,600
Average growth                        11.3X                         13.6%    13.8%
rate (p.a.)
Source: MWREP.



AJNXE 2
CHINA
SHUIROU XYDRORLECTRIC PROJECT
Electricity Generation by Region and by Type of Plant GWh)
197n     1975      1976      1977      1978      1979     1q90      1981      1982      1983     1984      1995
Total                115 870  195,840  203 130  223,410  256.550  281,947  300,627  309,269  327,678  351,440  376.987  407,300
Hydro              20,450   47,630   45,640   47,670   44,630   50,120   59,211   65,546   74,399   86,450   86,780   91,500
Thermal            95,420  148,210  157,490  175,740  211,920  231,827  242,416  243,723  253,279  264,990  290,201  315,800
Northeast            28,820   41,160   43,020   43,610   48 520   51 580   53 995   54 210   56 147   59,613   63 176   66 745
Hydro               3,350    5,350    3,560    3,850    2,690    4,746    5,072    6,343    4  509    5,423    6,647    8,070
Thermal            25,470   35,810   39,460   39,760   45,830   46,834   48,923   47,867   51,638   54,190   56,529   5R,675
North                 20,870   34,950   35,480   38,640   459830   50 559   53,556   S5,071   57 527   61,061   66,167   70.391
Hydro                  680      710       560       800       970    1,376    1,313        873       962    1,282    1,124    1,120
Thermal            20,190   34,240   34,920   37,840   44,860   49,183   52,243   54,198   56,565   59,779   65,043   69,271 t,
East                 29,710   49,490   54,670   60,860   70140   17 7,535   83,816   87,429   92,149   98,849  106,431  116,740
Hydro               4,320    7,920    7,150    7,900    6,450    5,996    9,018   11,109   11,337   14,816   12,392   12,R60
Thermal            25,390   41,570   47,520   52,960   63,690   71,539   74,798   76,320   80,812   84,033   94,039  103,880
Central-South         18,360   35,410   35 000   39 430   46,150   52 534   57 592   60f8R3   65 922   72,443   75,996   82,429
Nydro               6,950   17,020   17,170   16,03?   15,630   17,178   20 245   23,327   30,256   35,569   34,654   37,070
Thermal            11,410   18,390   17,R30   23,900   30,520   35,356   37,347   37,556   35,666   36,874   41,342   45,359
Northwest              8,340   17,010   18,660   20,790   22,460   23,928   24,989   24,774   26,501   27,366   30,330   33,679
Hydro                2,670    8,580   10,060   10,440    9,750   10,416   10,560   11,060   12,525   12,907   13,330   12,750
Thermal             5,670    8,430    8,600   10,350   12,71n   13,512   14,429   13,714   13,976   14,559   17,001   20,929
Southwest              9 770   17 820   16 300   19 580   23 450   25 811   26,679   26 902   29,432   32,108   34 886   37 316
Hydro                2,       8050        140    8,650  9          150 10,408   12,003   12,834   14,810   16,553   19,633   19,630
Thermal              7,290    9,770    9,160   10,930   14,300   15,403   14,676   14,068   14,622   15,555   16,253   17,686
Source:  MWRFP.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Performance Indicators for FPEPB
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985
Installed Capacity (MW)                 882       880      878      975    1,037
Hydro                                 578       578      578      578       559
Thermal                               304       302      300      397       478
Energy Generation (GWh)               3,323-  3,596    3,681    4,002    4,304
Hydro                               2,280       340    2,629    2,324    2,389
Thermal                             1,043    1,256    1,052    1,678    1,915
Capacity Factor (%)                      43        47       48       47        47
Hydro                                   5       -46-      52        6        T9-
Thermal                                39        47       40       48        46
Peak demand (MW) /a                     687       694      760      860       963
Energy sales (GWh)                    3,212    3,475    3,656    3,965    4,483
Growth in sales (X)                     6.9       8.2      5.2      8.5      13.1
Total System Losses (%)                10.9      11.7     10.7     11.5      11.6
Plant use                             2.9       3.4      2.8      4.0       4.4
T & D losses                          8.4      8.9       8.4      8.2       8.2
Average coal consumption
(gm of std coal of 7,000 kcal/kg
per kWh)                            552      555       547      547       531
Number of customers                    n.a.   77,142   81,389   87,509   92,179
Number of employees                    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.   15,183   16,475
Sales per employee (MWh)               n.a.     n.a.      n.a.      261       272
/a Includes plants connected to FPEPB's grid.
Source: FPEPB.



53-                             ANNEX 4
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Staff of FPEPB
(as of December 31, 1985)
Number
By Specialty
Technical staff                                    1,969              12
Administrative staff /a                            2,032              12
Service staff                                      1,621              10
Operations staff                                   8,476              51
Apprentices                                        1,562              10
Other                                                815               5
Total                                          16,475             100
By Functional Units
Power generation                                   3,905              24
Operator trainees                                    963               6
Transmission maintenance                             532               3
Distribution maintenance                             540               3
T & D construction                                 4,413              27
Thermal power construction                         2,682              16
Repair                                             1,877              11
Dispatching and research                             331               2
Design                                               308               2
Education                                            281               2
Administration                                       239               1
Other                                                404               3
Total                                          16,475             100
/a Includes finance and accounting personnel.
Source: FPEPB.



- 54 -                            ANNEX 5
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
FPEPB's Existing Training Facilities and Expansion Program
Existing              Plan of expansions
Academic year               1985       1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Quanzhou Electric Power Technological School
(Established in 1984, provides 4-year curricula for training of junior
secondary school graduates as mid-level technicians)
Total staff                        85                                          200
of which teaching staff          53                                          100
Students admitted                  155       120     240      240     280      280
Students enrolled                 238        358     598      838   1,035   1,160
Students graduated                  -          -       -       83     155      120
Fuzhou Electric Power Technicians' School
(Re-established in 1978, provides 2-year curricula for training of secondary
school graduates as skilled workers)
Total staff                        80                                          190
of which teaching staff          42                                          52
Students admitted                 305        260     320      360     400      240
Students enrolled                 621        725     885      940   1,080   1,000
Students graduated                156        160     305      260     320      360
Zhangzhou Electric Power Cadre School
(Provides 2-year training for FPEPB mid-level technical staff and short
courses for FPEPE administrative/managerial staff)
Total staff                        25                                           50
of which teaching staff           8                                           20
Capacity                          100                                          200
of which full-time students      60                                          80
Source: FPEPB.



55 -                             ANNEX 6
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Electricity Tariffs of FPEPB, 1985 /a
Tariff category                                     Rate              Unit
Lighting /b
Up to I kV                                        15.0           fen/kWh
1 kV and above                                    14.5           fen/kWh
Commercial and Small Industry
Up to 1 kV                                         8.5           fen/kWh
1-10 kV                                            8,3           fen/kWh
35 kV and above                                    8.0           fen/kWh
Large Industry /c
Capacity charge based on transformer capacity    4.0             Yuan/kVA/month
Energy charge /d
1-10 kV                                          5.8           fen/kWh
35 kV and above                                  5.5           fen/kWh
Agriculture /e
up to I   kV                                       6.0           fen/kWh
1-10 kV                                            5.8           fen/kWh
35 kV and above                                    5.5           fen/kWh
Bulk Supply
Agriculture
1-10 kV                                          3.5           fen/kWh
35 kV and above                                  3.0           fen/kWh
County level
(other than agricultural users)           up to 30% discount /f
Commume/township level
(other than agricultural users)           up to 20% discount /f
Inter-grid Transfers Within Fujian Province
Thermal                                            6.0           fen/kWh
Mini-hydro                                         5.0           fen/kWh
FPEPB's average rate for 1985                        7.3           fen/kWh
/a  The indicated rates include a sales tax of about 15% of the electricity
bill.
/b  Lighting consumption by all categories of consumers is separately metered
and billed at the lighting rate.
/c  Industrial consumers with total transformer capacity of 320 kVA and above.
7T  Aluminum refining and calcium carbide industries enjoy a 2 fen/kWh
discount; ferroalloy, synthetic ammonia, caustic soda, and phosphate
fertilizer Industries enjoy a 1 fen/kWh discount.
/e  Applies only to activities related to agricultural production (e.g.,
threshing) and not to rural industries and rural residential consumption.
/f  Bulk supply sales to other distributors, except to the extent that the
electricity supplied is resold to agricultural users for which the speci-
fied special rates apply, are made at discounts from the average rate
charged to their consumers using the same tariffs as FPEPB's direct cus-
tomers. Discount rates vary according to the cost situation of the dis-
tributor.



- 56 -                            ANNEX 7
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Installed Capacity, Generation and Energy Sales of FPEPB
Energy
Installed capacity /a (MW)         Generation (GWH)          sales /b
Year    Hydro      Thermal    Total    Hydro    Thermal    Total        (GWHT
1952       -         6.22       6.22       -          8         8            6
1957     12.40       10.05     23.35      32         17        49           39
1962     67.36      58.00    125.36      306         78       384          350
1965     67.36      73.50    140.86      353        251       604          609
1970    165.30      86.90    252.20      853        199     1,052        1,021
1971    186.60     124.10    310.90      631        552     1,183        1,139
1972    202.90      51.50    254.40      662        200       862        1,366
1973    291.40      65.90    357.30      963        287     1,250        1,614
1974    304.40      56.50    360.90   1,121         210     1,331        1,465
1975    399.40     127.50    526.90   1,297         268     1,565        1,818
1976    399.40     111.00    510.40   1,450         288     1,738        1,924
1977    399.40     158.00    557.40   1,528         500     2,028        2,249
1978    431.90     189.50    621.40   1,687         812     2,499        2,574
1979    462.00     287.70    749.40   1,536       1,267     2,803        2,875
1980    577.00     310.20    887.20   1,765       1,404     3,169        3,190
1981    578.50     303.80    882.30   2,280       1,043     3,323        3,212
1982    578.50     310.90    880.40   2,396       1,200     3,596        3,475
1983    578.50     299.50    878.00   2,629       1,052     3,681        3,656
1984    578.50     396.50    975.00   2,324       1,678     4,002        3,965
1985    559.00     478.00  1,037.00   2,389       1,915     4,304        4,483
/a  PPEPB's installed capacity includes the following (as of December 1985):
Thermal:   Yongan         250 MW           dro:  Gutianxi          259 MW
Shaowu         24 MW                  Ansha             115 MW
Fuzhou         12 MW                  Chitan            100 MW
Xianen         62 MW                  Huaan              60 MW
Longyan        24 MW                  Naner              25 MW
Others       24.5 MW                  Jitou            19.5 MW
/b  Includes sales of power purchased from independent rural minihydro
operators.



ANNEX 8
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Energy Consumption by Category of Customers /a
Growth
1980           1981           1982           1983           1984           1985       rate (X)
Consumers                        GWh      %      GWh     %      MWh     %      (Wh      X     GWh      x     GWh      %    1980-85
Residential and commercial        345   10.8    253    7,4    316    8.6    382    9.7    431   10.1    504   10.5             7.9
Large industrial                2,659   83.4  2,899   84.3  3,077   83.2  3,186   81.1  3,439   80.4  3,836   79.8             7.6
Of which energy-intensive
industries /b                 793   24.9    824   24.1    804   21.7    795   20.2    803   18.8    745   15.5    -1.2
Transportation                      14    0.4      21    0.6      18    0.5      26    0.7      32    0.7      42    0.9    24.6    J
AgrIculture /c                     171    5.4    244    7.1    287    7.8    334    8.5    373    8.7    425    8.8    20.0
Total                      3.189  100.0  3.417  100.0  3,698  100.0  3,928  100.0  4.279  100.0  4.907  100.0            R.6
/a  The energy consumption data include sales by PPEPB and the amount generated and self-consumed by four plants owned by
four industrial enterprises (which account for about 7% of the total).
/b  Includes aluminum refining, calcium carbide, ferroalloys and synthetic ammonia.
/c  Most agricultural consumers are not direct customers of FPEPB, but are served indirectly through bulk purchasers or by
independent rural minihydro operations.



- 58 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHllIKOU HYDROtLECTRIC PROJECT
Development Programs of east China Grid and Fujian Province
East China Power Development Prograt
(1986-95)
A. C-enerating Stations
No.                 Scheduled/a
Installed                    of       Unit      commissioning
Name                          cagacity      Locatton      units    size            date
Zhenhal Thermal (coal)                   8no      Zhejiang         3       20n         1986,89,9n
Louhe Thermal (coal)                     600      Anhul            1       30n               1986
Talzhou Thermal (coal)                   snn      Zheitang         3       125         IQR6,87,88
Xuzhou Thermal No. I (coal)              800      Jiangsu          2       200            1986,87
Ningxing Thermal (coal)                  25n      ShanRhait                125               1986
Jtanbi Thermal (coal)                    600      Jiangsu          1       300                1987
fiefet Thermal (coal)                    125      Anhui            1       125               19R6
Yangzhou Thermal (coal)                  400      Jiangsu          2       200            1987,88
Pingwei Thermal (coal)                 1,2n0      Anhui            2       On0            1987,8R
Shihdongkou Thermal (coal)             1,200      Shanghai         4       300     1987,88,89,90
Sunan Thermal (coal)                     900     Jiangsu           2       3on         1990,91,92
Betilungang Thermal (coal)             2,40n     Zheitang          4      600      1990,91,92,91
Xuzhou No. 2 Thermal (coat)            2,400      Jiangsu          R       30n      19R8,89,9n,91
92,94,95
fuiaibei No. 2 Thermal (coal)          1,800     Anhui             6       300     1988,91,92,94
95
Huainan No. 2 Thermal (coal)           2,400                       4       600     1992,93,94,95
Yanjiang Thermal (coal)                1,Ron      Jiangsu          6       3no         1991,94,95
Shanghai Thermal (coal)                  600     Shanghai          1      600
Jinshuitan Rydro                         300      Zhejiang         6        5n         1986,87(2)
1988,89(2)
Shihtang Hydro                            72     Zhejiang          3        26         1988,89(2)
Shanxi Hydro                             240     Zhe iang          4        60               1992
Tang Xeng Hydro                          600      Zhejiang         4       150      1993(2),94(2)
B. Transmission Ltnes
Scheduled
Name                      Legh                     Voltage level                completion
km)
vanchang - Pingyao               207                        50n kV                        1987
Xuzhou No.1 - Jiangdu            340                         500 kV                       1986
Jiangdu - Shanghai               340                        500 kV                        1987
Xuzhou No.2 - .7tangdu           348                         500 kV                       1989
(2nd circuit)
Fanchang - Jianhi                210                        500 kV                        198P
Pingyao - Nanqiao                180                         500 kV                       1987
Beilungang - Pingyao:
lt circuit                 245                        5n0  kV                      1990
2nd circuit                 245                        500 kV                       1991
Total                     2,355 km
/a   Most of the generating units are scheduled for commtssioning by the end of the year.
When two units of the same plant are scheduled for the same year, the commissioning



- 59 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
CHINA
SHUIKO HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Fujian Power Grid Development Program
(1986-94)
A. Generating Stations
No.            Scheduled
Installed    of    Unit   Commissioning
Name                        Ownership   capacity    units  size        date /a
(MW)
Zhangping Thermal (coal)      FPEPB          200        2    100   1986,87
Shaxikou Hydro                FBEPB          300        4      75   1987(2),88,93
Fuzhou Thermal (coal)         HIPDC        1,050        3    350   1988,89,94
Fanchuo Hydro                 county          36        3      12   1988(3)
Gungehuan Hydro               county          32                    1989
Shaxian Hydro                 county          30                    1990
Shuikou Hydro                 FPEPB        1,400        7    200   1993(2),1994(3)
1995(2)
Jingi Cascade Hydro           county         108                    1995
Shagi Cascade Hydro                          128                    1995
B. Transmission Lines
Length       Voltage        Scheduled
Name                        Ownership         (km)         Level         Completion
Shuikou-Hangzhou            FPEPB/ECEPA         560        500 kV           1993
Various (1986-90)           FTPS                553        220 kV           1990
Various (1986-90)           FPEPB               593        220 kV           1990
/a  Most of the generating units are scheduled for commissioning by the end of
the year.  When two units of the same plant are scheduled for the same year,
the commissioning dates would be June and December. When three units are
scheduled for the same year, the commissioning date, would be April, August
and December.



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SRUIKOtt HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Development Planning of Min River Basin
River/                  Min River                            Shaxi                                       Youxi                                Jinlg,x
Name of                                              Gong-   Shen   Sha-                Jie-   Ban-   Shui-   Wun-       Yong-   Chi-             Kong-
power station       Shuikou   Shaxikou    Ansha   chuan   kou    xian   Gaosha    mian   mian   don            tan       kou      tan    Dayan   tou       Fauchuo
Drainage
area (km2)        52,438      25,455      5,184   R,910  10,390  9,422  11,378   2,986   3,115  3,7R8   4,525    4,844   4,766   5,059   5,388   5,819
Mean annual
ru off             1,728         753        16n      278      304    333      402    85.3    Rfi.4    140  122.16         130     15!   168.1  177.85   193.1
/m /sec.)
Normel high
water level (m)        65          88       265      160      149    125       99      285     171    141       105        85   277.2   197.7   175.8       161
Dam height (m)          101          53        92       21    12.5      20       21      145       36     58    25.5      47.5       78       29       19       25
Gross reservoir
capgeity3          2,340         130        730       30       32     50    n.a.   2,37n    31.5    110    24.3           83      735    93.3    28.8    33.3        >
(10  x   )                                                                                                                                                           0
Effective re-
seryoir qapacity    700           80        440       25    n.a.      20       36   1,800      9.7      44      4.1     13.3      665    n.a.    26.5        25
(10 x m')
Installed
capacity (MW)      1,400         300        115       32       60     30       36      40n    35.2      34    25.2      35.2      100       24       36      36
Annual mean
energy output      4,95n         960        614t    120       356    144      15R     604      149    120       105      170      500      113     162      158
(GWh)
Status              under-      under-      com-    plan-   plan-  plan-   plan-   plan-   plan-  plan-   plan-    plan-   coc-    plan-   plan-  under-
way         way      pleted    ned       ned    ned      ned      ned      ned   tied      ned       ned   pleted    ned       ned     way



AMEX 10
Page 2 of 2
(Cont'd)
River/                                       Guttanxi                         Dashangxi                           Jianil                                 Futuznx
Name of                         Gb-      Long-      Gao-      Bao-    Yong-   Xin-   Jieshu-   Xin       Guei-   Jiou-    Heng-       Xun-      Anfen-     Tang-    Shao-
pm1er station                   tian     ting       yang       hu      kuo    dian      kou      tian     kou    guan    tangxia    kou          qiao       kou       kou
Drainge area
(km )                         1,325     1,550    1,697    1,722   1,438   2,721   3,502    2,640   3,060   2,450          3,840      4,210    16,100   11,950   13,489
mean anmal
(a /sec)                      44.4       54.6        60       60    45.3    85.6   110.4         109     126    96.8        152        140        582      442       455
Normal high water
level (a)                       382       254       131       100     290      217      80       182     152      220        182       182        122      115        97
Dan height (a)                     71         37       43        43      92      125       52     51.5    28.3    70.4          85        95         86        10     n.a.
Gross reservoir
(10' x w3)                     642       15.3       9.5      6.5      246   2,125       83       483     116      950     2,870      3,900      5,800       50        21
Effective rese voir 3
capacity (10 x           3)     544        '.8      5.4       4.5     146   1,R40       62      n.e.    n.a.      384      1,450     2,000      1,590     n.a.      n.a.
Installed capacity (MW)            62        130       33        34      30      100      48        40      24       41         78        96        280        50       46
Annual mean energy
output (GWh)                    334       406       105       116     160      530     209       194     103      233        534       550      1,920       302      270
Status                          cor-      com-      corn-     con-    plan-   plan-   plan-    plan-   plan-   plan-        plan-      plan-      plan-    plan-    plan-
pleted    pleted   pleted   pleted    ned        ned     ned       ned     ned      ned       ned        ned        ned      ned       ned



- 62 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Salient Physical Features of the Project
Unit                Description
Location                                                  On the Min1iang River,
2             84 km from Fuzhou
Catchment area                             IT                     52,438
Average annual inflow                      m3/s                    1,728
Design flood                               m3/s             45,600 (P - 0.1)
Maximum flood                              m /s             54,500 (P - 0.01%)
Reservoir
High water level                          m          67.68 (P - 0.01%) max. flood
Normal water level                        m                      65.00
Level during flood season                 m2                     61.00
Reservoir area                           km                      93.5
Total storage capacity                     ,                      360
Flood regulation                      106n3          (During flood season at
106m3         Elevation 65 to 61)
Power generation                      106m3                     700
Available Depth
Flood regulation                        m             4.0 (Flevation 61-65)
Power generation                        m             8.0 (Elevation 57-65)
Diversion Channel
Length                                     f                     1,170
Capacity                                 mi/s     28,400 (P - 52), 32,200 (P - 22)
Depth of flow                             m        35.89 (P = 5X), 38.71 (P   2X)
Dam
Type                                                     Concrete gravity dam
Foundation rock level                     m                      -27.0
Crest elevation                           m                       74.0
Height (maximum)                          m                      100.0
Crest length                                 3                   7A6.n
Volume                                   10O'                     1.83
5pillway
Type                                                      Overflow spillway
Overflow sill elevation                   im                     43.0
Capacity                                 m'ts         43,685 (P - 0.1%) Design,
51,641 (p m 0.012) check
Number of gates                                                   12
Intake
Type                                                    On the face of the dam
Number                                                             7
Control gate size (W x H)                 m                  Q.2 x 11.25
Penstock
ypejnumber                                                 Fmbedded pipe/7
Length (total of each penstock)           m        81.672 (the length of pressure
pipe is 55.471)
Inside diameter                           m                      10.5
Thickness of steel                        mm                     23-29
Powerhouse
Type                                                          Overground
Dimensions (L x W x H)                                   297.2 x 34.5 x 63.55



-63 -                       ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
Unit                Description
Generation Facilities
Number of units                                                   7
Units capacity                           NW                      200
Turbine
Type                                                            Kaplan
Maximum head                              m                       58
Minimum head                              m                       30
Design head                               m                      45.3
Head for dependable output                m                     )45.3
Normal effective head                                            45.3
Maximum discharge                        ur'/s                   509
Output (maximum)                          MW                     235
Dependable                                MW                     204
Rated speed                             r.p.m.                   93.8
Generator
Type                                                Vertical shaft, umbrella type
Rated output                             MVA                   222/242
Rated voltage                             kV                     13.8
Power factor                                                    90/95
Main Transformer (220 kV)
Type                                                         Three phase
Rated capacity                           MVA                     240
Rated voltage range                       kV                 242 +5%/13.8
Main Transformers (500 kV)
Rated capacity                           MVA              2 x (3 x 11) x 160
Rated voltage range                       kV             550 +52/03/2 x 13.8
Switchyard
Type of breakers                                             Hybrid GIS
Number                                                          9 bays
Transmission Lines
Number of circuits                                                1
Normal voltage                            kV                     500
Length                                    km              560 (to Hangzhou)
Interconnectina Transformer
Type                                                      Auto-transformer
Hated capacity                           MVA                (3 + 1) x 250
Rated voltage                             kV           550/^r/242 +10Z/,rS/13.8
Annual Energy Production
Firm energy                              GWh           2,100 (corresponding to
firm power 260 NW)
Secondary energy                         GWh                    2,850
Total Energy                          GWh                    4,950
Quantities of Work (Except diversion and temporary work)
Excavation
Soft rock                             106 23                   2.14
Hard rock                             1063                     6.65
Tunnelling                           o1,63                   0.0042
Earth and rockfill                      106 e                   0.315
Concrete                                106;3                    3.48
Curtain grouting                          m                    13,000
Consolidation grouting                    m                    32,400
Gates and hoists                         tons                  13,100
Penstocks                                tons                   4,478
Reinforcing steel                        tons                  33,900
Other Particulars
Annual traffic
Cargo                                  tons              3,000,000
Timber and bamboo                      tons              1,500,000



-64 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 5
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Terms of Reference and Program for Studies of
Regional Intergrated Operation
A. INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR COMBINED
OPERATION OF HYDRO POWER STATIONS
I. Objectives of the Investigation and Research
1.        Hydro power installed capacity accounts for 542 of the Fujian Power
Grid (FPG). With the exception of Gutian, Chitan, Ansha and Sanmei which ahve
some regulation capacity, most hydro power stations including the Shaxikou
hydroelectric power station under construction, are basically run-of-the-river
stations. Shuikou Hydroelectric Project will have an installed capacity of
1,400 MW and a firm output of 260 MW (with 1001 LF) when operated in isola-
tion. It's annual electricity generation is 4.95 TWh, out of which a signifi-
cant part is seasonal energy (about 2.85 TWh).
2.        The Shuikou project, after its completion, will be connected to the
East China Grid (ECG) which has currently hydro installed capacity of 1,876 MW
(161). After the interconnection of the two grids, the firm output of hydro
stations will rise to a certain amount through operation regulation and also
their operating features will be improved. To fully utilize available hydrau-
lic resources, in accordance with suggestions of IBRD, a study aimed at the
following objectives will be carried out:
(a) The basic principles and calculation methods, assessment of benefits
from combined operation of hydro power station on different river
systems with cascade stations will be studied abroad.
(b) Principles of modes of combined operation of hydro and thermal
stations within the grid, theory of their economic operation and
practical calculation methods will also be studied abroad.
(c) The firm output and annual energy generation while Shuikou is
operated in coordination with other stations in FPC will be
calculated and checked.
(d) The firm output and annual energy while Fujian System (including
Shuikou) is operated in coordination with the ECG will be calculated
and checked.
(e) On the basis of 3 and 4 above, operating principles for each of the
major hydro stations within ECG/FPG and suggestions for dispatch
will be formulated.
(f) Software for practical computations will be developed.



- 65 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 5
(g) The basis for optimizing decisions to resolve contradications
between safety and economics in interconnected system operation,
will be studied abroad.
II. Method of Investigation
3.        Engage experts on hydraulic energy and system operation from grids
of appropriate foreign countries to Fujian and Shanghai to lecture on theory
and basic calculation methods.
4.        Chinese experts (including engineers from FPC Dispatch Center, ECG
Dispatch Center and ECHIDI) to visit relevant grids in foreign countries to
investigate the operation of the hydro station groups and hydro thermal
stations in coordination, the determination on mode of operation they make,
and actual operation results.
5.        Under consultation of foreign experts, the Chinese experts will
carry out the calculation of firm output and energy with the major hydroelec-
tric stations of FPG and ECG operated in coordination.
6.        Domestic and foreign experts work together for the principles of
operating mode for various major hydro stations within FPG and ECG.
III. Investigation Schedule
7.        Contact and engage experts from appropriate foreign countries and
sign a contract of consultants' services in the first quarter of 1987.
8.        Foreign experts come to China to give lectures on hydro station
groups operated in coordination, the basic theory and calculation method in
economic dispatching of hydro/thermal stations, in February, 1987 and
tentatively planned to last one month.
9.        Hydro energy calculation for several major hydro stations will be
carried out by both domestic and foreign experts from March to May, 1987.
10.       In June, 1987, Chinese experts will investigate hydro power stations
of grids in foreign countries to learn the practical experience on economic
operating dispatch of hydro and thermal plants.
11.       Hydro energy calculation carried out by Chinese experts will be
continued from July, 1987 to mid 1988.
12.       Operation principles for major stations in FPG/ECG will be studied
and worked out by Chinese and foreign experts during I987/1988.
13.       Set forth a complete investigation and research report by Chinese
and foreign experts in September 1988.



- 66 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 5
IV. Participants:
FPG Dispatch Center               2 persons
ECG Dispatch Center               2 persons
ECHIDI                            2 persons
V. Cost Estimates
For employment of foreign experts for 12 man-months
(US$16,000 per man-month)                                    US$192,000
International travel for foreign experts                        US$20,000
Accommodation in China for foreign experts for
365 days (RMB Y 150/man-day)                               RMB Y 55,000
Overseas study tours for Chinese experts for 6 man-
months (eUS$4,500 per man month, including
international travel and living costs)                        US$27,000
Introducing necessary software                                  US$50,000
Rent payment for computer                                    RMB Y 50,000
Contingencies                                          I        US$10,000
ERMB Y 10,000
Total                                       I       US$299,000
I    RMB Y 115,000
B. INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH PROGRAM REGARDING NETWORK,
DISPATCHING AND AUTOMATIC CONTROL OF POWER SYSTEM
I. Objectives of Investigation and Research
14.       Fujian Power Grid (FPG) will be connected to the East China Grid
(EGG) after completion of the Shuikou project through a 500kV single circuit
transmission line. This will significantly affect both grids during joint
operation, particularly when Shuikou station or the 500kV transmission line
suffer faults. For the sake of ensuring the safety and economic operation of
FPG and ECG, as suggested by IBRD, the following subjects of investigation and
research are planned to be carried out:
(a)  To check the load flow calculations. short circuit current, tran-
sient stability, low frequency oscillation transient over-voltages
on the 500kV transmission line, after FPG is connected to ECG.
(b)  To study the influence of the Shuikou Station on the operation of
FPG and ECG and its technical requirements for matching the safety
and economic operation of the system, including system stability



- 67 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 5
controller to be installed for requirement of stabilization, optimal
electrical brake control, optimal excitation control, AGC, EDC for
dispatching automation, and realization of on-line safety analysis
and functions of the energy management system.
(c) To study the effect of various kinds of faults on Shuikou Station
and FPG/ECG at different loads, and counter-measures to be taken.
(d) Existing network is to be analyzed under alternative generation and
transmission planning methods, and a proposal set out (including
cost estimate) for improvements needed.
(e) To meet the requirements of safety and economic operation of FPC and
ECC, investigations of the current situation of the dispatch centers
of FPG and ECG will be made, proposal for improvement will be set
forth (including cost estimate).
(f) Dispatching management and optimization for joint operation of FPG
and ECG.
(g) Reliability analysis and reserve arrangement of FPG and actions to
be taken after the interconnection of FPG and ECG through a single-
circuit 500 kV line.
II. Method and Schedule for Investigation and Research
(1) Contact with and engage power system and dispatching experts from
electric utilities of foreign countries and sign a contract for
consultants in January/February, 1987.
(2) Lectures on basic principles for network planning and calculation
program for power system will be given by visiting foreign experts
in April, 1987.
(3) Electrical calculation for FPG and ECG is to be carried but by
Chinese experts with the assistance of foreign experts from May to
June 1987.
(4) Chinese experts consisting of people from FPG Dispatch Center, ECG
Dispatch Center, East China Electric Power Design Institute and
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Design Institute will visit an
appropriate foreign power company for investigation of the network
structure of power system and its dispatch center in July, 1987.
(5) From August to December, 1987, calculations regarding power system
by Chinese experts would be carried out.
(6) Analysis or existing network will be carried out and proposal for
improvement will be set forth by both Chinese and foreign experts
from May to August, 1988.



68 -
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 5
(7) Proposal for the improvement of FPG and ECG Dispatch Centers by both
Chinese and foreign experts will be prepared from May to August 1988.
(8) A complete investigation and research report by both Chinese and
foreign experts will be delivered in September, 1988.
III. Participants:
Dispatch Center, PPEPB                                  2 persons
Dispatch Center, ECEPA                                  2 persons
East China Electric Power Design Institute              1 person
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Design Institute       1 person
IV. Cost estimates
Foreign experts for 12 man-months
(at US $16,000 per man-month)                          US$ 192,000
International travel for foreign experts               US$  20,000
Accommodation in China for foreign experts
for 365 days (RMB Y150/Man-day)                      RMB Y  55,000
Overseas study tours for Chinese experts for           US$  27,000
6 man-months (at US$ 4,500 per man-month
including international travel and
accommodation)
Rental charges for computer                          RMB Y  50,000
System stabilization motive model test               RMB Y  50,000
Contingencies                                         US$   50,000
RMB Y 10.000
Total                                                  US$ 289,000
RMB Y 165,000



CHINA                                                              Annex 13
SHUtKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Cost Estimate by Category and Purpose
(US$ 0001
Base Cost end-1985         Physical Contingencies         Price Contingencies             Total Project Cost
Description                                            Local   Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign  Total       Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
Preparatory works                                      19,860    2,940   22,800       1,986     294   2,280       1,556       243    1,799       23,402    3,477   26,879
Resettlement coapensation                             100,470         0  100,470    10,047        0  10,047      27,746         0   27,746      138,263         0  138,263
Dam,spillway,powerhouse & navigation facilities        59,700  139,400  199,100      5,970  13,940  19,910       22,250   53,297   75,548        87,920  206,637  294,558
Sates and hoists                                        9,800    3,775   13,575         686     264      950      4,781    1,912    6,593        15,267    5,851   21,119
Turbines and auxiliaries                               33,780   25,350   59,130       2,365   1,775   4,139      19,511   12,333   31,844        55,656   39,457   95,113
6enerators and auxiliaries                             29,400   22,450   51,850       2,059   1,572   3,630      17,231   11,933   29,164        48,689   35,954   84,643
Transforaers/switchgear                                 8,650   29,943   38,593         606   2,096   2,702       4,212   14,164   18,376        13,468   46,203   59,670
Control system                                              0    3,187    3,187           0     223      223          0    1,576    1,576             0    4,987    4,987
Transaission lines                                     30,350   25,013   55,363       2,125   1,751   3,875      14,312   11,797   26,109        46,787   38,560   85,347
Subtotal                                          292,010  252,058  544,068    25,842  21,914  47,756    111,600  107,154  218,754          429,451  381,126  810,57
Engineering and construEtion supervision                7,790   10,927   18,717         779   1,093   1,872       2,853    3,980    6,833        11,422   16,000   27,422
Adninistration                                         10,485         0   10,485      1,049       0   1,049       4,196         0    4,196       15,730         0   15,730
Technical assistance and training                         517    1,000    1,517          52     100      152        129       251      3B0          698    1,351    2,049
Total Project Cost                               310,802  263,985  574,787    27,721  23,107  50,828    118,778  111,385  230,164          457,301  398,477  955,778
Note 1: Local costs (at end-1985 prices) have been calculated using an exchange rate of RM8 Y 3.71 = US $1.00.
Note 2: Price escalations used for both local and foreign tosts lat end-1985 prices) are 7.22 for 1986, 6.8B for 1987-1988, 7.0? for 1989, 7.1X for 1990 and
4.01 for 1991 and thereafter.
Note 3: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



66out Wostrtbottoo of 0opoo9two
3988              _9697                               19011              390                0990              19                 1992              3993               1994             095                            Otam
Local  OvO        tcit  Fpoao    Loca  Forelp    Local Forolo            7.cu  Faolg        LoclFrlo          Lcl ori  1Foretg   Loa1.;g oalFrig                       oa   Forso          Foral7 i.9          Loca    Own6p        Tota
Ora ltiidwoso
PrO ao ry66                               4,23       554    9,000    1,236    S,200       60      ,0          4        0         0      50        6                   0        0                  0        0        0        0         0 9                9,0       2,940      22,10
louttbueotco~~~uosatiu            0         0   30,450             mo 0 15,108   0   £9,1,"O 00 0   08,000           0   17,72                   0   18,109  0    0,50                0         0        0        0        0                 to 0      100,4780      0047
omubOta                                 4,000      554   09,050    1,336   19,309      608   20,900       340    1,230        70   10,30        6.0  18,280         0    1,23         0         0        0        0        0         0        0       029,229     2.948    1.23,7
61 COtiOp in I  01          40        is    I'm94       024    o,8n        68    2,09         341,92m            7  1,030           6    10,10        0      ISO50                         0         0        0        6        0         12.02       294      12,22
M .1contispott"                  ~0         0      770       492,203            81  4,226         64    5,022        20    7,242       23    8,507        0       893        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        29,392        243     29,505
Total                     4,950       69922,165   t,409 22,333              29  27,216       44326,804           972,7             0928,457           0    2,453         0        0         0        0        0        0        0         416,065    3,477    103,14?
civil) I lUocatot %ts
"Vila"  isclit    0                   0        0        0        0   11,009   23,100    3,709    9,100    4,90    i140    l6,90    27,70    12,100   34,100    7,300   20,800    0,300    5,709    1,209    5,590    I,30          3,200         00,70    £39,400    199,10
3'tjlcactU OiiOcbO oOA   203                  0        0        9         0     ,00    2,5SW       370       90       49      1,30    2,040    2,779    1,210    3,409       730    2,0010      330      370       129     330      0IN       32          5,979)   132,900     19,919
Price contiogmktin                0         0        9        00   1,3M     2,042       740    1,840    2,432    3,447    6,595   10,030    3,703   06,193    I,90    11,129         41    2,22        002    2,349      96     2,366         MM,2      SI,M9      15'S
Yoaw                          0                  0        9   13,432   31,09      4,308   l1,050    6,820   16,427   23,285   41,289190 22t.      3,611   20,93    34,009    2,231   6,292    2,122    0,1t0    2,301    5,6             47,920   206,61      294,3%
got"s 6 hosts                                 0        0        0         9        0        0        0         0        0        9    1,700    0,009   3,5401   3,000    2,509    1,009    2,190         775                                              9,8009      '         %
Fbro,cia coot1oguscsa8n                       0        0        8         0        0        0        0         0        0        9      139        70      245       70      173       70       147       54        I        0         9        0           VW      32jj       13,
Pritt OdiMPKin     ~              0         9        0        9        9         0        0        0        0         0      6.5      280I'm$           459  1,300         SD    1,227       453         0        0        0        0         4,7811    1,012       0,59
TOWa                           9        6        9        0         0        0        9        0        9         0  2,4641,.4305S,= 1,5293,97                       ,590    4,47401,202             0        0        4        9        15,26       Sim5      21,108
ilactrtcal 0 abmiaocal btos
TWtOsoI,0awiiai                               9        I        9         0        0        0        0         0        0    4,0        an      1009    5,200    2,000    4,300   14,040    10,200             10,09       05      3,005571
Owatwo 4 mll3arOos       9        0        0        ~    ~ ~~         ~    ~ ~      ~ ~        ~~0   0  9  0  0    3000  6400      4,300    2,90      2,609    8,0       9,700    4,r     01,100     ,150    3,100I   2,9          209,36.'
traosowmtlsalt  iwo               4~ ~          ~ 0  9        0        0        0         9        0        0        0       IS0    4,0       ,1000  15,000    0,0       0,000      370     0Q                             0                                       3-9
50    0    ,500       0                 0                 0                             3. v       3-
0  0  0  0 0  0  0       0         0                 0      50                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~47  0  0  9         9                    ,0         ,8
C,r%r,0lJT.h"1.                  ~0         0        9        0        0         0        0        0        0        0    6,900    5,40    1.,210      ,040O  11,230  09,20       ,1090      513         0        0        0        8         30,230    35,013     88,363
Gototal                                     0        0        9         9        9             0        0        0         7 ,009o   9,269   29,509   22,950   20,71    22,300   44,000   22,170    9,904   22,200    3,440    2,280    2,330         100,3001  345,90      200802
Physica cmtaqpwi.s 8 7n                       9        0        9        9         0        0        0         0        0      490      640      TM      I,0      2,9    1,n  6     3,36      1,02      6A9    1,2514      25        Is       16£I'  7,15            ,1        14,3
Prict catimmin                   ~0         0        0        0        9         0        0        9        0    2,989    3,535    3,98    I106,50    03,002   30,059N  22,900   23,534    5,749   14,436    2,342    I,M       1,650        55,264    5,2        197o?
TOWa                        -0          0      -0         0        9         0        0        9        0    9,479   13,424   35221   32,0990   45,811V   35,627   04900   381,323   16,282   30,190    0,193    3,936    4,015          304,599   265,060    30760
toswOuulq I Caotrsctsoa Sw,,msio
ha cms                                            0             9        0    039       3771,300 I',707I'           1,'m     1,79       go     1,797       869     ,0 00 1,3           06      440       003 N    458      sit      260       30          7,790     11V,2     18,71
RI06&    9OU" if                                       9        9         0      130      071       13N      271      33       172       86       III      918      337       89      137        60       68       45        so       26       34           72       ,05        0,7
Prim cafftimKin                  09        0         9        0      15       200       203      345      28       499       36       666      40       60e      460       731      360      419      382       228      192      232         2MD        3,910      6,en
Total                         9         0        9        0    2,03    2,402    1,93    2,22        3,810    2,37      1,22    2.,544    1,3    2,147    1,406    2,222    1,02         1,161      7    6  00 4  0            628         00,02    06,04       27,n
lo   adco                                     0        9        0        01 ,723            031,23             9,0               9 '  13,5 0       91,50             I91,000            9       86         0      8so        9       74                  to98488        0      10,32
Physcal  osuaimarso #3020                   0        0        0      1073        0      130        0      1306                                 13         9       Ito        I        6        9        06        9       70                   1,049         0      1,60
Price cotiwain9                             0        0        0      20          0      263        0      NO         0                  0      60 0       9      NO          0      516         0      575        0      54         0          4,196         9      4,090
Tota                          0         0        6        02,1002            93,693            01,810            01,9'7             02,040            01,799             031,4 2           9  1,520           9 3,61            9        15,13           0      mm73
TK863caI Assitotoce a fratalog
O            0         0   0       13       259      230      2j        130      2j       127      2          S   0   0              0             9   0         0        0         0        0               507t    3,36        1,52.
4 14Is 0                                          0        0        1        231                                                                                                   0         9                      0            0             52        t0o5
Rice coptimmile                   0        9         I        9       16        308 20            51       3        73        so       9         0        0        0         0        0        9         0        0        0        a            IN        21          8
Total                         9        9         0        0      059       34       369,     326      102      340       389      373        9        0        0         0        8                           0        4        0           69       1,35       2,W4
I"6, Project cost
lag, coot                                 4,500      554   19,450    1,236   32,455   28,037   27,33    11,397   26,910   29;827   40,447   40,207   3B,810   05,106   35,609   07,166   20,030   15,001   24,710    7,441    4,509    5,000            319,002   205,988    574,7017
PipcaO cooUqosdo                           459       55    1,945       224    3,246    2,814    2,72      L,140    2,691    1,87     4,516      3,7    3,3       5,626    2899    5,367    2,045    0,202    1,9          636u     384      53          27,321    23,147      So,=
Prict Lantispatios                0        0       77        49    3,872    3,357    5,526    2,39      7,860    6,020   00,292   15,063   27,409    038    18,707   35,28       06,407    0,024   16,114    4,909    3,20      4,27         110,270   III,=3    239,1
Total Orojoct Coot                0,50       609   22,1US6.5 1409   30,572   24,30    35,09   24,802   37,400   20,728   73,M5   60,957   93,326  193,179   57,096  107,814   46,492   23,016   02,629   22,987    0,1HA   00,630               457,501   390,42     Ou,77
SOt. 1s Local costs tat mah-198  pt,cosl have bio  calculated maul an aocbaoprt    4337    80.
got. 2i  Price osrolotiooo  sortO   bobk local al3 Osoposts 10s1 0616*945 97 rico   are 7.21 for 1906, 6.03 for 19071-2900, 7.014   2909M, 7.11 for 1990 ad 4.03 Or 0991 ad tiareatto7.
lbSOt. 3,ftgors e0 sot total badtly Ow to naood .



- 71 -
ANNEX 15
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Procurement Schedules
A.  Procurement Schedule for Main Civil Works
Notice to prequalified companies                      April 1, 1986 (actual)
Bid documents available for purchase                  April 9, 1986 (actual)
Pre-Bid conference                                    May 5, 1986 (actual)
Bid opening                                           July 31, 1986 (actual)
Evaluation by owner complete                          October 21, 1986 (actual)
PRC approval of contract award                        Octoher 25, 1986 (actual)
IBRD approval of award                                November 15, 1986
Issue of Letter of Intent                             November 18, 1986
Contract signing and instructions to commence         December 29, 1986
Contractor move to site                              mid-January 1987
B. Procurement Schedule for Electrical and Mechanical Equipment (ICB)
Turbine    Generator
Completion of tender document                             01/15/87      06/15/87
Lateast date of PRC review                                02/01/87      07/01/87
Latest date for IBRD review                               03/01/87      08/01/87
Issue of bid document                                     04/01/87      09/01/87
Bid opening                                               08/01/87      12/15/87
Latest date for completion of evaluation
by engineer committee                                   10/15/87     03/01/88
Latest date of PRC approval                               11/01/87      03/15/88
Latest date for IBRD approval                             12/01/87      04/15/88
Latest date of issue of Letter of Intent                  12/01/87      04/15/88
Contract signing                                          02/01/88      06/15/88



- 72 -
ANNEX 16
CHINA
SHtUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement
(1HS$ million)
Bank FY and                  Semester             Cumulative                X
semester
1987
First
Second                        4.0                     4.0                  2.9
1988
First                        12.0                    16.0                 11,4
Second                       12,0                   28.0                  20.0
1989
First                        12.0                    40.0                 28.6
Second                       16.0                   56.0                  40.0
1990
First                        13.0                    69.0                 49.3
Second                       23.0                   92.0                  65.7
1991
First                        23.0                   115.0                 82.1
Second                       25.0                  140.0                 100.0



- 73 -
AMNEX 17
Page 1
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Resettlement Plan and Environmental Actions for Monitoring and Reporting
Resettlement Plan
General
1.        The inundation of the Shuikou reservoir area will involve the
resettlement of about 63,000 people living in 88 villages and 15 townships in
Fujian Province. The affected jurisdictions include Nanping City and Gutian,
Youxi and Minqing counties. About 77X of the affected population is engaged
in agriculture. The estimate of the affected population is based on a survey
prepared in 1982, and assumes a 1.2X annual increase in population until the
time of resettlement of each subgroup up to 1992. The geographical
distribution of the population to be resettled is as follows:
Nanping   Gutian   Youxi   Minqing    Total
Townships affected                      8         1        2         4         15
Villages affected                      51        18        9        11         88
Total county/city pop (1982)      396,517  345,320  317,819  245,770  1,305,426
Affected population (1982)         33,983   16,836    5,503    1,393       57,715
Of which:
Agricultural (1982)              28,929    9,383    4,871    1,116       44,299
Projected resettlement (1990)      37,386   18,522    6,054    1,533       63,495
2.        Based on the 1982 survey, the physical assets to be submerged by the
reservoir are estimated as follows:



- 74                            AME  17
Page 2
Items to be submerged                 Nanping  Gutian  Youxi  Minqing   Total
Farmland (ha)                          1,193      649    216       34     2,093
Of which:
Rice fields (ha)                     1,135      569    197       34     1,936
Vegetables (ha)                         58       80     19        0       157
Reclaimed wasteland (ha)                 367      253     75       44       739
Timber forest (ha)                        123     575     99      187       984
Economic forest (ha)/a                    94      156      4       21       275
Fruit trees (§a1                           32      13     15        8        68
Dwellings (10 a )                      1,046      632    217       52     1,947
Collective buildings (103X2)             256      105     32        6       398
Enterprises and imstitutional
buildings (103m)                        95       99     92       18       304
/a Includes all tree crops such as tung oil, tea oil, tea, bamboo, olives,
mulberries, etc.
Resettlement Organization and Planning
3.        The planning for the resettlement of the population whose assets
will be inundated by the reservoir began in 1979 with a preliminary survey of
the reservoir area population and assets undertaken by ECHIDI. In 1980, this
survey was reviewed by the MWREP and the Government of the ProviLce of Fujian
(CPF).  On May 14, 1982, the State Council issued a "Statute for i'nd
Requisition for Construction Use by the State." In response thereto the CPF
established the Shuikou Hydroelectric Project Resettlement Planning Team.
This team of 63 persons worked for 10 months with planning groups from the
three affected counties and Nanping city to resurvey the affected areas and
produce a "Report on Resettlement Planning for the Shuikou Hydroelectric
Station." This report was accepted by MWREP and GPF in 1984, and formed the
basis for detailed budget estimates and further preparations. The implementa-
tion of the resettlement plan is the responsibility of the GPF which has, in
April 1986, established a Shuikou Hydroelectric Project Resettlement Office,
with a full-time director and a core staff of 22. This agency will work
together with SHPC, and line agencies of the GPF to implement the resettlement
plan.
Principles for Resettlement
4.        The resettlement and compensation of the affected population will be
based on principles set down in such documents as the State Council's 1982
"Statute for Land Requisition for Construction Use by the State," the MWREP's
1983 "Methods for Dealing with Reservoir Inundation and Resettlement for
Large- and Medium-Scale Hydroelectric Projects" and the Fujian Provincial
Government's 1983 "Provisional Stipulations Regarding Resettlement Plans for
Large- and Medium-Scale Reservoir in Fujian."



- 75 -
ANNEX 17
Page 3
5.        Following the above documents and the current administrative
practice of the provincial government, the basic principles of resettlement
are as follows:
(a) Compensation for dwelling is based on the 1 in 20-year flood level;
(b)  Compensation for agricultural land is ba ed on the 1 in 2-year flood
level. As the major crop in this area is rice, which can withstand
several days' inundation, this standard is reasonable.
(c) Displaced persons and facilities will be reestablished in the
nearest available sites within their respective counties and, if
possible, their original townships.
(d) To the extent possible, resettled persons should be enabled to
continue with the previous occupations.
(e) Resettlement should be arranged so that physical and human resources
can continue to be at least as productive and living conditions at
least as convenient, as they were before.
(f) Plot sizes for resettled farmers should meet minimum standards so as
to enable the farmers to continue making a living on the land.
(g) During a transition period, the provincial government will
supplement the agricultural production of farmers with grain as
required.
(h) Public facilities will be reconstructed at least to the preexisting
standards.
(i) The supply of construction materials (steel, lumber and cement) for
reconstruction of dwellings, buildings and other facilities will be
given priority.
(j)  Compensation for dwellings, house plots, lost wages and moving
expenses will be paid to heads of households. Compensation for
productive assets and infrastructure will be paid to the local
(village) government with jurisdiction.
(k) While local governments hive been involved in resettlement planning
from its initiation, the affected population will be informed after
final project approval.
(t) To the extent possible, the integrity of neighborhoods and hamlets
will be maintained in the resettlement process.
(m) Resettled persons are allowed to return to the reservoir area to
plant and harvest crops and salvage materials until their lands are
flooded.



- 76 -
AMNEX 17
Page 4
(n) To the extent possible, individual households will be given a range
of choices in regard to:
(i) design of dwellings;
(ii)   availability of construction materials at official prices;
(iii)   opportunity to buy additional construction materials at
market prices;
(iv)   quality of dwelling;
(v) building contractor; and
(vi)   disposal of materials of old home.
Compensation Criteria
6.        Compensation for resettlement is based on guidelines established in
the documents mentioned in para. 4. On that basis, the population to be
resettled for the Shuikou project are entitled on average to the following
amounts for each productive asset and building:
(a) Rice Fields. A compensation of 5 times-plus a resettlement
allowance averaging 4.09 times the value of annual production based
on the average of official prices and surplus purchase prices.
(b) Vegetable Plots. 10 times the value of annual production plus
Y lO-OOOlmu (about $46,800/ha) for new plot construction.
(c) Reclaimed Land: Two-thirds the compensation for rice fields.
(d) Timber Forest: Compensated on the basis of production costs
invested in the forest plus a resettlement allowance of one-third
the standard for rice fields.
(e) Economic Forest. Compensated on the basis of a multiple of annual
output plus a settlement allowance one-half the standard for rice
fields.
(f) Orchards. Compensated on the basis of a multiple of annual output
plus a settlement allowance one-half the standard for rice fields.
The settlement allowance only applies to collective orchards, not
for trees around the house.
(g) Buildings. Compensation for all type of structures is based on
replacement cost for a structure of same quality and type, with
deduction, for the age of the home and the salvage value of old
materials, plus the cost of moving the old materials to the new home
site.  Based on these guidelinest the avIrage compensation for all
types of buildings amounted to Y 30.72/m .



- 77 -
ANNEX 17
Page 5
(h)  Enterprises.  Compensation for moving enterprises is set on the
basis of:
(i) 202 of fixed assets; plus
(ii)   Moving costs plus 20X of moving costs to compensate for
moving losses; plus
(iii) One month's wages to compensate for disruption in
industrial enterprises; or
(iv)   Two months' wages to compensate for disruption in
commercial enterprises; plus
(v) A 70X reduction in taxes during period of shutdown.
(i) Other compensation:
gi) Y 1,000/kw for minihydro plant submersion;
(ii)   Y 591/kw for irrigation station and pumping station
submersion;
(iii) Cost of rebuilding water supply, power distribution and
transport infrastructure to same scale and standard as in
original settlement;
(iv)   An allowance of Y 30/cap for public facilities.
On the basis of the above compensation criteria, the estimated costs for popu-
lation resettlement are shown in Table 1. The total resettlement and compen-
sation budget, also including the entity responsible for implementation of the
various aspects of the plan, is shown on Table 2.



-    -                          ANNME 17
Page 6
Table 1: DETAILED BREAKDOWN OF COST ESTIMATE FOR RESETTLEMENT COMPENSATION
Item                                     Unit       Quantity    Unit price    Amount
(Yuan)     (Y mln)
Land Requisition
Paddies and farm fields                 mu/a       30,277.56   1,533.42        46.43
Community vegetable plots               mu          1,116.55  15,O11.20        16.76
Reclaimed land                          mu         11,083.50     418.68         4.64
Subtotal                                   42,477.61                    67.83
Tree and Forest Compensation
Collective Forest
Middle-aged timber                    mu          5,075.35       69.87        0.35
Mature timber                         mu          5,120.83       63.29        0.32
Settlement allowance for
timber                              mu         10,196.18     229.72         2.34
Fuelwood, rushes, shrubs              mu             4,562       63.29        0.29
Subtotal                                    14,758.18                    3.31
Economic Trees
Tea oil                               mu          1,344.54      132.16        0.18
Tung oil                              mu            204.93      160.00        0.03
Tea                                   mu          1,272.05      505.68        0.64
creen bamboo                          mu          1,138.11     283.00         0.32
Palms                                 mu             11.31     216.00         0.00
Mulberry                              mu               100      180.00        0.02
Olive oil                             mu             18.20     585.00         0.01
Others                                mu             34.62      150.00        0.01
Settlement allowance for
economic trees                      mu          4,123.76     344.60         1.42
Subtotal                                     4,123.76                    2.63
Fruit Trees
Citrus                                              44,263      90.00         3.98
Peach and plum                         1            32,487      40.00         1.30
Pear                                   1            23,387      67.50         1.58
Persimmon                              f             2,994     216.00         0.65
Loquat                                               3,102      40.00         0.12
Olive                                  1             1,232     540.00         0.67
Banana                                              27,341       18.00        0.49
Pomegranade                            0               923       12.00        0.01
Longan and lychee                      1               326     300.00         0.10
Grapefruit                             1               196      45.00         0.01
Chestnut                               1               439      36.00         0.02



- 79 -
ANNEX 17
Page 7
Item                                     Unit       Quantity    Unit price    Amount
(Yuan)     (Y mln)
Fruit Trees (cont'd)
Other fruits                                           151       12.00        0.00
Collective orchard allowance          mu          1,023.48      344.60        0.35
Subtotal                                           137,339                    9.30
Subtotal                                                                15.24
Building Reconstruction
Homes
Main structures                               1,777,732.04       29.66       52.72
Ancillary structures                  a         169,715.67       12.68        2.15
Collective buildings                          2
Main structures                       m         2269631.50       31.36         7.11
Ancillary structures                  m2         39,370.51       12.64        0.50
Municipal buildings                       2
Main structures                       m2        125,848.88       47.07        5.92
Ancillary structures                  m2          6,237.35       13.50        0.08
Subtotal                                2,345,534.95                    68.48
Enterprise and Institute Moving             2
Rebuilding cost                         m         301,045.42       42.47       12.91
Enterprise moving
Enterprise units                                                              2.75
Institutions                                           130   1,512.00         0.20
Commercial units                                        72   2,268.00         0.16
Subtotal                                                                 3.10
Missed wages subsidy                                   7,579       42.70        0.32
Production halt tax allowance                                                   1.20
Subtotal                                                                17.54
People Moving Costs
Materials moving                                      63,495       30.00         1.90
Materials losses                                      63,495       20.00         1.27
Subsidy for missed work to move                       63,495       30.00        1.90
Subtotal                                       63,495      80.00         5.08



- 80 -
ANNEX 17
Page 8
Item                                     Unit       Quantity    Unit price    Amount
(Y.-uan)   (Y mln)
Other Compensation
Small Hydropower & irrig. pumps
Hydro inundation                      kW         l597.50        1,000        1.60
Hydro protection                      kW               380         300        0.11
Irrigation pump                       kW               494         591        0.29
Infrastructure
Communication restoration
Commune and bridge roads            km             47.65     80,000         3.81
Machine pulling bridge roads        km             87.20     20,000         1.74
Village roads                       km             312.5      3,500         1.09
Ferries                                               98      2,000         0.20
Motorized ferry boats                                112       3,000        0.34
Poled ferry boats                                     84      1,500         0.13
Bridge                                                 1     63,100         0.06
Wharfs                                                 2     40,000         0.08
Water supply restoration                              63,495          81        5.14
Lighting restoration                                  63,495          70        4.44
Water supply allowance                                                          0.10
Building foundation leveling            m2      2,649,550.37        6.50       17.22
Land req. compensation
Village land compensation             mu          6,089.04     418.68         2.55
Commune and town 0.82
compensation                        ml            532.90   1,533.42         0.82
Crain drying operations                 m            190,485         3.0        0.57
Enclosure wall compensation             m2           127,000       10.00        1.27
Public store compensation            household        12,700       40.00        0.51
Fish pond compensation                  mu                47     844.22         0.04
Public facilities comp.               person          63,495       30.00        1.90
Subtotal                                                                44.03
Handling costs                            2X                                      4.36
Total Estimate                                                         222.23
/a 1 hectare - 15 mu



- 81 -
ANNEX 17
Page 9
Table 2: GOVERNMENT ENTITIES TO RECEIVE COMPENSATION AND RESETTLEMENT FUNDS
FROM THE BUREAU OF MIGRATION AND LAND REQUISITION
Disbursement                                        Cost                Government
category                                        estimate/a              Entity
(Y mln)
Resettlement of people                             222.233    Affected counties and house-
hold heads
Flood protection for Nanping City                   58.336    Nanping City
Compensation for industries in
Nanping suburbs                                   10.676    Nanping City
Compensation for forestry facilities                 7.092    Bureau of Forestry
Relocation of telecommunication lines               13.000    Bureau of Telecommunications
Relocation of highway                               49.274    Bureau of Transportation
Compensation for navigation facilities               6.000    Bureau of Transportation
Compensation for Dazhou lumber storage              27.080    Bureau of Forestry
Relocation of broadcasting lines                     0.530    3 counties
Compensation for military facilities and
oil storage                                        5.608    Army
Compensation for aquatic facilities                  0.300    Bureau of Aquatic Products
Compensation and protection for historical
sites and relics                                   0.100    Bureau of Administration of
Relics
Compensation for the Gutianqi V site                 2.000    Min River Hydroelectric
Engineering Corporation
Compensation for hydrological stations               0.500    Bureau of Water Conservancy
Cleaning the reservoir                               0.952    Undecided
Others                                               6.320    Unallocated
Grand Total                                   410.001
/a Excluding price contingency.



- 82 -
ANNEX 17
Page 10
7.        As indicated in para. 5(d), the resettlement guidelines call for
displaced person to be restored to their former occupations. As 77% of the
resettled population are engaged in agriculture, large areas suitable farming
have been identified near the submerged villages and will be made available
for the resettled farmers. The nature and extent of these areas are
summarized in Table 3.  Based on the characteristics of the land areas
available for resettlement, about 52X of the resettled agricultural population
are planned to continue as farmers. Of the remainder, 2S will be engaged in
animal husbandry, 0.41 in fisheries, 14S in fruit growing, 8X in forestry and
241 in village industries. A breakdown of the occupational categories for the
agricultural population to be resettled (including hosts) is shown in
Table 4. The investment necessary to ensure the creation of these new
employment opportunities will be coordinated by the county and village govern-
ments out of resettlement compensation and allowance funds. The sources and
uses of funds for this purpose are illustrated for the case of Minqing County
on Table 5.



- 83 -
ANNEX 17
Page 11
Table 3: AREAS IN EACH COUNTY AND TOWNSHIP TO BE USED FOR RESETTLEMENT
OF RESERVOIR AREA FARMERS /a
Forestry
Hilly lands       Hilly lands    land suitable          Hilly
Municipality                ploughable       suitable for      for planting    land suitable
or county     Township      farmland        fruit growing   economic trees   for forestry
(ha)            (ha)              (ha)             (ha)
Nanping        Zhanghu          358.5            106.7              393.5           7,381.5
Taiping          210.6            43.5               124.7         10,377.8
Luxia            152.0            43.4              261.5           1,596.6
Xiadao           335.2            68.7                90.0          3,533.6
Dafeng            45.2             18.7                               677.1
Dongken           46.3
Xiqin            113.0
Daheng            71.7
Subtotal                 1,332.6            280.9              869.8          23,564.6
Gutian         Oyang            325.4             95.0              188.2           9,774.6
Youqi          Xibing           408.3             61.4                              6,318.8
Youkou town        4.1            20.0                                 121.7
Subtotal                   412.4             81.4                              6,440.5
Minqing        Xiongjiang         72.2            37.0                                  13.3
Jilin            135.5             10.0                                 16.7
Meiqi             61.3
Subtotal                   269.0             47.0                                 30.0
Grand Total              2,339.5            504.4            1,058.0          39,809.8
/a  Adapted from a table entitled "Land Resources of the Areas for Resettling the
Inhabitants from the Inundated Villages" by converting mu to ha. The original table
was in the 1983 Report on Resettlement Planning for Shuikou Hydroelectric Project.



ANNEX 17
Page 12
Table 4: RESETTLEMENT PLAN FOR TOTAL AGRICULTURAL POPULATION INCLUDING HOSTS
1982       1982        1990          Mode of resettlement of 1990 agricultural population
agr. pop.  agr. pop.  agr. pop.                Animal                     Commer-             3rd
County                          to be      incld.      incld.      Agricul-  husban-   Ind. &             cial              indus-
(city)          Township        moved       hosts       hosts        ture       dry    sideline  Fish   fruit   Forest   try
Nanping         Zhanghu         14,431   14,642        15,999       5,810        836    3,489        92   2,340    1,221   2,211
Taiping          6,494    7,108         7,820       3,089                  673            1,854       741   1,463
Lusia            1,641    4,707         5,178       2,289         22       288            1,407       125   1,047
Xiadao           4,050    8,839         9,724       6,036        349       633            1,508       125   1,073
Dafeng           1,002    1,164         1,280         965                   59              192        64
Dongkeng           635    2,127         2,340       2,340
Xiqin              625    5,457         6,004       6,004
Daheng              51    1,418         1,560       1,560
Subtotal                   28,929   45,368/a    49,905        28,093      1,207    5,142       92   7,301    2,276   5,794
Youxi           Youxikou            577       571         628           35                 211       20     295        67
Xibin            4,294    7,262         7,989       2,456                1,680     114      954    2,785
Subtotal                    4,871    7,833         8,617       2,491                1,891     134   1,249    2,852
Gutian          Eyang            9,383    9,383        10,323       3,580                  145       37   1,516       431   4,614
Subtotal                    9,383    9,383        10,323       3,580                  145      37   1,516        431   4,614
Minqing         Xiongjiang          809    1,330         1,463      1,353          -         -                92       18
Julin              249    1,058         1,165       1,072                   31               40        22
Meizi               56       454          499         499
Dongqiao             2
Subtotal                    1,116    2,842         3,127       2,924                   31              132        40
Total                      44,299   65,421        71,972      37,088      1,207    7,209      263  10,198    5,599  10,408



- 85 -
ANNEX 17
Page 13
Table 5: HINQING COUNTY REVENUE AND COST FORECAST
FOR RESETTLEMENT
(Thousand Yuan)
Anticipated Revenues from Compensation
Land compensation and resettlement subsidy                                980.6
Collective forest land                                                  1,842.8
Economic forest land                                                      181.2
Fruit trees                                                             1,201.2
Total                                                                4205.8
Anticipated Costs of Resettlement
Rehabilitation of the productive base
Reclaimed land (100 mu x 720 yuan/mu)                                      72
Cultivation of bamboo (450 mu x 485 yuan/mu)                              210
Cultivation of fruit trees (750 mu x 500 yuan/mu)                         375
Afforestation (4,032 mu x 80 yuan/mu)                                  322.59
Irrigation facilities                                                       900
For other modes of resettlement                                        2,177.41
Total                                                              4,057.00
Resettlement Schedule
8.        The timetable of the resettlement operation is well designed and
keyed to the major milestones of construction and reservoir filling, the
elevations of the flood levels behind the cofferdams and the main dam, the
vertical distribution of villages, factories and infrastructure in the
reservoir area, an the costs of resettlement and relocation. The number of
persons located within the flood level associated with the first cofferdam,
which is scheduled to be closed in October 1, 1989, has been carefully
estimated at 20,866 persons. The resettlement plan calls for 21,014 people to
be resettled by January 1, 1989 and for 32,014 people to be resettled by
December 31, 1989. The number of persons located within the flood level of
the second cofferdam which is scheduled to be closed 3 years later on
October 1, 1991 has been roughly estimated to.be 31,785 persons. The
resettlement plan calls for 42,014 people to be resettled by January 1, 1991
and for 52,014 to be resettled by December 31, 1991. The disbursement
schedule associated with the resettlement plan, and the number of persons to
be resettled every year is shown on Table 6.



ANNEX 17
Page 14
Table 6: SHUIROU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT INVESTMENT FOR RESETTLEMENT OF INUNDATED AREAS
DISPENSED IN DIFFERENT YEARS COMPARED TO NUMBER OF PERSONS TO BE RESETTLED IN DIFFERENT YEARS
(Thousand Yuan)
Total                        Investment by year
Item                                               investment    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990       1991    1992
Inhabitant resettlement                             222,333     35,836  35,836  39,419  35,836  35,836   39,470
Flood protection for Nanping City                    58,336        565   4,653  11,824  14,709  14,709   10,716   1,160
Compensation for industries of Nanping               10,676               2,136   2,135   2,135   2,135    2,135
Compensation for forestry facilities                  7,092               1,419   1,419   1,418   1,418    1,418
Relocation of telecommunication lines                13,000      1,840   1,840   1,830   1,830      283    2,830
Relocation of 101 km highway                         49,274      2,937   6,253  11,561  10,161   7,321    7,450   3,592
Compensation for navigation facilities                6,000               1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200    1,200
Compensation for Dazhou lumber yard                  27,080        552   4,772   4,824   4,949   5,198    6,549       236
Relocation of broadcasting lines                        530         30      100     100     100      100      100
Compensation of military and oil storage
facilities                                          5,608              1,382   1,390   1,390      683       763
Compensation for aquatic facilities                     300                                          150      150
Compensation and protection for historical
sites and relics                                      100                  50      50
Compensation for the Cuitanqi V site                  2,000                 800     800     400
Compensation for hydrological stations                  500        250      250
Reservoir clean-up                                      952                         238     238               238     238
Others                                                6,320        903      903     903     903      903      903     902
Subtotal Base Cost and
Physical Contingencies                        410,001      42,663  61,593  77,943  75,269  72,483   73,922   6,128
Price contingency                              102,974      1,536   6,652  14,342  20,022  25,731   31,713   2,978
GRAND TOTAL                                    512,975     44,199  68,245  92,285  95,291  98,214  105,635   9,106
Item                                   Total No.                    Number of persons by year
Persons to be resettled                             62,014       1,014  10,000  10,000  11,000  10,000   10,000  10,000



- 87 -
ANNEX 17
Page 15
B. Environmental Action Items for Monitoring and Reporting
9.        Priority action items recommended for the loan-preparation stage
include arrangements for land compensation and resettlement in the rail
relocation route to be prioritized in accordance with the rail relocation
construction schedule, and to begin at once; arrangements for the resettlement
implementation organization to be established and funded and to begin opera-
tions; and redesign of the Nanping flood protection dike.
10.       Clarifications and arrangements recommended for the construction
stage include ascertaining the number of new enterprises and how they will be
compensated; determining the impact on house construction of the Covernment's
decision to abolish the state lumber monopoly in South China; and evaluating
the risk of recirculating industrial discharges through the reservoir into
Nanping City's water supply and others.
11.       Monitoring and reporting of resettlement progress and of the
restoration of the productive base and welfare of the displaced population are
proposed for quarterly intervals during project implementation. A mid-term
review of the resettlement progress is proposed for late 1989, just after the
first cofferdam is closed. Case studies and a sample survey in 1987 of
conditions in resettlement villages at the nearby Shaxikou hydroelectric
project site are proposed to identify lessons learned about compensation,
implementation and redevelopment that may be applicable to Shuikou
resettlement.
12.       Clarifications and arrangements recommended for the construction
stage include arranging for Agricultural Bureau specialists to appraise the
133 ha of agricultural land in the drawdown zone and make a recoimendation
concerning the feasibility of promoting drawdown agriculture in this zone
during the flood season; arranging for the Aquatic Products Bureau to further
clarify the species of fish and the distribution of eels in the Min River;
arranging for bed load deposition to be monitored in catchment area
reservoirs; arranging for reservoir fisheries planning and management activi-
ties to be coordinated with resettlement; arranging for demography, land use,
forestry and erosion data to be compiled for the entire catchment area;
arranging for toxic substances, especia'ly those associated with paper mills,
that could accumulate in reservoir fish to be measured in reservoir area
waters, sediments and fish; and other.
13.       Monitoring and quarterly reporting recommended for the construction
stage cover bed load deposition in catchment area reservoirs and behind the
cofferdam; suspended load in reservoir tributaries; and revegetation of steep
construction slopes associated with road and rail construction.



- 88 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Income Statement
(Million Yuan)
Year ended December 31                     1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
Sales Increase (%)                         6.9       8.2       5.2      8.5      13.1
Energy sales (GWh)                       3,212    3,475    3,656    3,965    4,483
Average revenue/kWh (fen)                   6.9      6.8       6.9      7.1       7.3
Operating revenue                           220      237       252      280       326
Operating Costs
Fuel                                       25       30        31       58        67
Purchased power                           10        12        15       19        33
Operations & maintenance                   18       17        22       28        32
Administration                            12        14        14       16        16
Sales tax                                 33        35       37        42        49
Depreciation                              25        26        27       28        33
Total Operating Costs             122       134      146       191      229
Operating income                            98       103       107       89        97
Interest-charged to operations                    -         -        -              4
Income Before Tax                  98      103       107       89        93
Income Tax                                    -        -        55       50        43
Net Income                         98      103        52        39       50
Distribution of Net Income
Remitted to Government                    89        92        40       28        28
Transferred to Government funds            5         6        6         6        14
Employee Benefits Special Fund             4         5         6        5         8
Net Income                         98      103        52        39       50
Rate base                                   701      711       727      802       882
Rate of return (%)                        14.0      14.4      14.7     11.1      10.5



-89 -                             ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Balance Sheet
(Million Yuan)
Year ended December 31                     1981    1982     1983      1984     1985
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                    27       22       22        25       22
Inventories                             23       25       24        28       35
Receivables                               7       8        5        16       24
Total Current Assets               57       55       51       69        81
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                        906     949      988    1,155    1,208
(less) Accum. depreciation             206      227      257      283       316
Net plant In service              700      722      731      872       892
Construction work-in-progress           56       89      204       164      324
Total Fixed Assets                756      811      935    1,036      1216
Special Fund Assets                       48       45       65        82       97
Total Assets                      861      911    1,051    1,187    1,394
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                         16      14       14        31       28
Due to Government                       10        7        6         7        7
Total Current Liabilities          26       21       20       38        35
Long-term debt                            63       88      202       226      389
Government funds                          700     722      731       812      830
Working capital funds                      25      25       24        24       25
Special funds                             47       55       74        87      115
Total Liabilities                 861     911      1051    1,187    1,394
Debt as % of debt & equity                  7.8    10.2     20.1      20.3     29.1
Current ratio                               2.2     2.6      2.6       1.8      2.3



ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 3
CHINA
SWUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Funds Flow Statement
(Million Yuan)
Year ended December 31                      1981    1982      1983     1984      1985
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Sources of Funds
Net income before interest              98      103       52        39        54
Depreciation                            25       26       27        28        33
Maintenance                             13       13        13       15        15
Distribution Expansion Special Fund    8         13       13        20        34
Total Internal Sources            144      155      105       102      136
Borrowings                                 29       71       121      184       185
Government Funds - Grants                   10      19        34       29         -
Total Sources of Funds             183     245       260       315      321
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                       39       90       154      211       185
Operational Requirements
Inc/Dec in working capital             -15        5       -3        -2        17
Inc/Dec in special funds assets         12       -3       20        17        15
Debt service                             5        6        6         6        18
Remittances to Government               94       98       38        14       27
Special fund expenditures               38       55       44        66       62
Total Operational Requirements  134       161       105       101      139
Total Application of Funds         173     251       259       312      324
Increase/decrease in cash                     10      -6         1        3        -3
Annual debt service coverage                  29      26        18       17         8



- 91 -
CHINA                                                          Annex 19
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROIJECT                                          Page I of 3
FUWJIAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POUER WUREAU
INCONE STATEMENT
(million Yuan)
Year Ended Deceaher 31                              1986    1987    1999    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Sales Increase (O                                    6.6     7.9    20.2      1.9      0.2     1.6      2.0     1.6    31.5    21.4
Energy Sales (SUh)                                  4790    5160    6200    6315    6328    6429    6559    6663    9764   10637
Average Revenue/kNh (fen)                            7.4     8.0      9.0     9.2      9.3     9.4     9.6      9.8    11.0    12.0
Operating Revenue                                    354     413      558     581      599     604      630     653     964    1276
Operating Costs
_____________
Fuel                                               95      104      131     139      137     140      142     145     129      125
Purchased Paver                                     41      44       45      48       53      60      67       73      78       80
Operation & Maintenance                             36      42      56       U       69       77      85       91     116      157
Adainistration                                      19      20       23      27      31       33      39       42      45       51
Sales Tax                                          53       62      84       87      88       91      94       99     145      191
Depreciation                                        36      41      57       63      66       72      75       78     118      172
Less: Fuzhou Thermal Revenue                         0       0       0       15      30       42      44       59      71      98
Total Operating Costs                           269      313     394      411     414      430     458      467     559      690
Operating Income                                      84     100      164     170      174     175      172     186     405      587
Interest Chargeable to Operations                      7       7      25       28      27       23      22       22      45       72
Net Income before Income Tax                          77      92      139     141      147     152      149     164     359      514
Income Tax                                           36       38      50       53      51       47      26       34     112      175
Net Income                                            41      54      99       89      96      104      123     130     247      340
Distribution of Net Income
Remitted to Government                             21       22      31       32      29       25       6       11      74      123
Transferred to Govt. Funds                          12      23      48       45      54       66     102      102     155      197
Employee Benefits Special Fund                      9        9      10       11      13       14      15       17      18       20
Net Income                                            41      54       89      89      96      104     123      130     247      340
Rate ease                                            952    1259    1580    1669    1750    1831    1862    2511    3983    5432
Rate of Reurn (Z)                                   8.9      7.9    10.4    10.2      9.9      9.5     9.2      7.4    10.2    10.8
Operating Ratio                                       76      76      71       71      70       71      73       72      58       54



- 92 -
CHINA                                                            Annex 19
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT                                            Page 2 of 3
FUJIAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
BALANCE SHEET
(Hillion Yuan)
Year Ended December 31                               1986    1997    1988    1989   10    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
ASSETS
=::=:2
Current Assets
Cash                                              24       30       44       56      67       79       84     101      126      159
Inventories                                       40       44       30      55       61       66       71      75       81      86
Receivables                                       25       27       28       30      33       34       36      37       39       40
Total Current Assets                              89      101      122      141     161      179      190     213      245     286
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                                1363    1901    2102    2198    2394    2497    2604    3947    5745    7135
(less) Accuo. Depreciation                       352      393     450      513      579     651      726      804     922    1095
met Plant in Service                            1011    1508    1652    1685    1815    1847    1878    3144    4823    6041
Construction NIP                                 663      704      875    1181    1627    2425    3197    2623    1594         907
Total Fixed Assets                              1674    2211    2527    2865    3442    4272    5074    5767    6417    6948
Special Fund Assets                                  92      95      137      149     146      151      123     167      201      222
TOTAL ASSETS                                  1855    2408    2786    3155    3749    4601    5388    6147    6863    7455
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                  29       31       33      35       38       40       42      43       45      47
Due to Governeent                                  8        8        8       9        9        9       10      10       10       11
Total Current Liabilities                         37       39       41      44       47       49      51       53       55      58
Working Capital Funds                                27      27       28       29      30       29       30      27       33       41
Long-term Debt                                     812    1311    1566    1809    2275    2996    3656    4237    4690    4964
Government Funds                                   865      902      963    1059    1170    1279    1421    1533    1729    1987
Special Funds                                       114     128      187      214     228      248      230     298      355      406
TOTAL LIABILITIES                             1854    2407    2786    3155    3749    4601    5388    6147    6863    7455
Debt as 2 of Debt & Equity                           45.3    56.0    57.7    58.7    61.9    66.2    68.9    69.8    69.2    67.5
Current Ratio                                         2.4     2.6      3.0      3.2     3.4      3.6      3.7     4.0      4.4      5.0



- 93 -
CHINA                                                         Annex 19
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT                                          Page 3 of 3
FUJIAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(Million Yuan)
Year Ended Deceuber 31                             1996    1987    I988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Internal Souroes of Funds
Net Incoae Before Interest                         49      62      114     117      123     127      146     151     292      412
Depreciation                                       36       41      57      63       66      72      75       78     118      172
I.Aintenance (net of expenditure)                   I        1       2       2        2       2       2        2       4        6
Total Internal Sources                           86      104     173     192      191     201     223      232     415     590
Distribution Expansion Special Fund                  20       25      69      74       67      59       18      73      92      102
Borrowings
Proposed I1RD Loan                                  0      93       71      93      195      56       0        0       0       0
Other Shuikou Project Loans                        90      164     160     178      324     719     747      515     353      125
Other Loans                                       342     270      98       36       17      23      25      178     293     425
Total Borrowings                                431     527      319     306      537     798     771      692     647     550
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                        537     656      560     562     795    1059    1012      997    1154    1242
Capital Expenditures
Proposed Shuikou Project                           87     242      204     232      461     675     604      341     185      -9
Other Construction                                327     247       78      29       10      19      20      170     291     399
Renovations and Minor Expansion                    33      34       38      42       46      56      61       64      74      9T
Distribution Expansion                             19      20       57      65       59      52      18       58      81      87
Interest During Construction                       17      37       37      46      66      104     147      181     181     160
Total Capital Expenditure                       483     581      415     413     641      906     950     814      802     724
Operational Requiresents
Inc/dec in Working Capital                          3       5        4       4       5        5       3        8      -1      -3
Debt Service                                       21      35      98       92       98     100     134      133     239     348
Remittances to Government                          20      21       30      31       29      25       6       11      73     122
Special Fund Expenditures                           9       8        9      10       11      12      13       14      16       17
Total Operational Require,ents                   52      69      132     138     143      142     156     166      327     485
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                    535     650     546      550     783    1049    1006      980    1129    1209
- ____:##:==:G:::::#           :2:S:5C=## 1- 2::2222::2=:=2::222 :22:2222222::2:::= :2222222222222##:_…222
Increase/Decrease in Cash                             2       6       14      12       12      11       6       17      25      33
Annual Debt Service Coverage                        4.0     3.0      2.0     2.0      1.9     2.0     1.7      1.7     1.7      1.7



- 94 -
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
AssuMtions to Financial Projections
A. Income Statement
1.        Energy sales reflect FPEPB's expansion program.  FPEPB is assumed
capable of selling its net production to its own provincial customers and at
least 50Z of the firm power produced by Shuikou to the East China grid. Power
to be produced by the Fuzhou Thermal Power Station and to be distributed
through the Fujian system for which FPEPB will act as sales agent is not
included as FPEPB's sales (para. 4.15).
2.        Average revenue is assumed to be increasing according to the
following projections:
1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Actual        --------- Projected (fen/kWh) --------------------
Minimum average revenue
required to meet
financial covenants   7.3   6.4   7.1   7.9   8.1   8.3   8.6   9.5   9.7   8.8   8.9
Increase in sales (X)          6.6   7.9  20.2   1.9   0.2   1.6   2.0   1.6  31.5  21.4
Average increase in
tariffs due to antici-
pated changes in:
Tariff policy                 -    0.2   0.9   0.1    -    0.1   0.2   0.2   1.2   1.0
Sales mix/removal of
subsidy                  0.1   0.4   0.1   0.1   0.1    -      -      -     -     -
Average revenue used in
the forecast                 7.4   8.0   9.0   9.2   9.3   9.4   9.6   9.8  11.0  12.0
3.        Fuel.  The price of coal for 1984 level of plan approved production
is assumed at the 1984 provincial average of Y 72 per ton of standard coal.
For incremental production from the 1984 level the price of coal is assumed to
increase gradually from year to year to reach the long-run marginal cost of
coal at Y 109 per ton in constant 1985 prices (or Y 163 per ton in current
prices) by 1992.
4.        Purchased power is based on FPEPB's present inter-system rates of
5 fen/kWh for hydropower and 6 fen/kWh for thermal power. Quantities needed
are based on FPEPB's projection as follows:



- 95 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 3
------------------- Purchases in GWh --------------
1986  1987  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993  1994  1995
Hydro           800   870   880    950  1,060 1,200  1,330  1,450 1,550  1,600
Thermal           15    10    10       -      -     -       -      -      -      -
5.        Operation and Maintenance costs include payroll and materials
escalated at the international inflation rates of 7.2Z for 1986, 6.8Z for
1987-88, 7% for 1989, 7.12 for 1990 and 4% for 1991 and thereafter; and an
allocation to the Maintenance Special Fund at 1.4% of gross fixed assets.
6.        Administration cost is based on FPEPB's projected expenditure.
Escalation at international inflation rates is also applied.
7.        Sales tax is assumed at 15X of sales revenue, which approximates the
current tax structure.
8.        Depreciation is assumed to be 31 of gross fixed assets in operation
at the beginning of the year.
9.        Receipts from distributing power from Fuzhou Power Station is
assumed to be 1.5 fen/kWh. According to government regulations, these
receipts are not considered as sales revenue and therefore are not subject to
sales tax. In FPEPB's financial statements, they are treated as an offset in
cost rather than as an income.
10.       Income tax is expected to be assessed at 551 of taxable income
(Table 6.1 7a).
B.  Balance Sheet
1.        Cash represents the balancing figure for these projections.
2.        Inventories, accounts receivable and accounts payable are projected
by FPEPB in accordance with its own expansion program.
3.        Plant in service reflects the full costs of future fixed asset
additions and about 85% of fixed assets previously capitalized (para. 6.06).
No revaluation has been taken into account.
4.        Construction work-in-progress reflects the aggregate construction
work-in-progress of FPPPB's own construction units and other construction
units which work as contractors for FPEPB.
5.        Special fund assets represents renovation and minor expansion, and
distribution expansion under construction.



- 96 -
ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 3
6.        Due to Government is expected to increase by 4Z each year.
7.        Special funds represent the cumulative balance remaining in the
following four special funds: Renovation, Employee Benefits, Maintenance and
Distribution Expansion.
C. Flow of Funds Statement
1.        Distribution Expansion Special Fund represents the receipts of
consumer connections. It it assumed to be at Y 66 per incremental Mœh
distributed by FPEPB which includes power supplied by the Fuzhou Thermal Power
Station (para. 4.15).
2.        Borrowings - PPEPB's future investment program is assumed to be
financed solely by loans. The following terms are used in the projections:
Interest and              Maturity and
Source         Projects            other charges             grace period
IBRD           Shuikou - foreign  8.5Z interest and 0.751  20 years including
(Phases I &                      commitment charge p.a.   5 years of grace
II)
PCBC           Shuikou - local    3.61 p.a.                  15 years beginning
Shaxikou - local                              after completion of
Chitan hydro                                  first unit
Mianhuatan hydro
Transmission
Government     Shaxikou - foreign 4.01 p.a.                  20 years including
of Kuwait                                                  5 years of grace
Provincial/    Zhangping Thermal  5.041 p.a.                 15 and 12 years
local        Yongan Thermal                                respectively begin-
gov't                                                      ning after com-
pletion of first
unit.
3.        Capital expenditures - escalation at international inflation rates
is applied to all generation and transmission projects under construction.
Foreign expenditures are converted at the rate of US$1 - RMB Y 3.7.



- Q7, .
ANNEX 21
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ECEPA's Key Financial Indicators (1981-85)
(Million Yuan)
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985
Average price per kWh (fen)               7        7        7         8       8
Operating revenue                    3,139    3,374    3,673    4,051   4,480
Depreciation                           242       257      276       297     315
Other operating expenses              1,349    1,563    1,808    2,111   2,439
Sales tax                              465       469      491       615   1,009
Income tax                                -        -      546       541     384
Remittances to government              912    1,078       385       256      85
Net fixed assets in operation        4,327    4,494    4,801    5,132   6,159
Cash                                    83       132      138       181     295
Long-term debt                          178      273      368       454   1,195
Special funds                          282       422      440       490     772
Government funds (including
working capital)                   4,653    4,878    5,151    5,443   6,411
Source: MWREP



- 98 -
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Railway Relocation Component
Description of Railway Relocation
1.        The implementation of the Shuiko project is associated with the
relocation of 66.4 km section of the single-track Waiyang-Puzhou railway line,
and the raising and strengthening of an additional 48.9 km. When the original
railway was built in 1956, the hydroelectric potential of the Shuiko site was
already under study, but as the optimal location and height of the dam had not
been determined, a definitive alignment of the railway was not possible, ard
a temporary line was built along the natural water level of the Min River.
This temporary line was built to lower standards (1.2% slope limit, 250 m
radius curvature and 450 m length side tracks) and an annual design capacity
of 3 million tons each way. As traffic increased beyond that capacity, the
insertion of additional stations, other small improvements, and intensive
management has allowed the traffic on the line to reach 4.7 million tons (in
the heavy direction) in 1984. These increases have not been sufficient to
meet the demand for traffic and the line has become an important constraint on
the further economic development of the Min river basin.
2.        As discussed in para. 4.10, the Fujian provincial development plan
has as its objective the quadrupling (in relation to 1980) of the GVIAO by
1995. To achieve this objective, the provincial Planning Commission estimated
that the capacity of the Waiyang-Fuzhou line would have to be increased to 6.5
million tons/year in 1990 and 8.5 million tons/year in 1995. As a result, the
Fujian Branch of the Shanghai Railway Bureau is taking advantage of the relo-
cation project to improve the alignment of the line and increase its capacity
to 8 million tons/year by 1990. This could not have been accomplished with
the old alignment which followed the course of the river. This first phase,
for which construction is already under way, will require an investment of 600
million Yuan. At a later stage, to meet the capacity requirements forecast by
the Planning Commission, it is planned to electrify the line to increase its
capacity to 12 million tons/year.
Capital Costs
3.        The investments required for the relocation and expansion of the
Waiyang-Fuzhou railway are estimated at Y 400.0 million for the 66.4 km
section that will be relocated and Y 200 million for the 48.9 km section that
will be raised and strengthened. Based on data from the Bank's Third Railway
Project, these costs were shadow priced by applying a conversion factor of
1.06, as shown in Table 1.
4.        In addition to the direct costs of the project, the expansion of
railway capacity will require complementary imvestments of several types. The
most important of these include additional locomotives needed to handle the



- 99 -
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 4
increase in traffic, and investments required to expand the production of coal
and other commodities to be carried. These linked investments are estimated
as follows:
(a) Locomotives: Based on data from the Bank's Third Power Project, the
projected traffic increase over the 193.5 km Waiyang-Fuzhou line
will require the addition of 11 domestic diesel locomotives at an
economic price of Y 1.7 million each. In Table 1, this investment
is assumed to take place in the year prior to the traffic increase.
(b)  Coal Mine Development Costs:  The cost of completely new mine
development has been estimated at US$56/ton of annual capacity for
the Bank's Coal Project. For the proposed project, it is assumed
that the additional coal to be transported will come in about equal
parts from (i) existing mines that could be expanded at reduced cost
and (ii) new mines. Therefore, development costs per ton of annual
capacity have been taken at 75% of the cost of developing completely
new mines. Mine development expenditures are assumed to be spread
equally over the five years prior to production of increments,
according to the traffic pattern shown in Table 1.
Project Benefits
5.        The Waiyang-Fuzhou line carries a diversified traffic of passengers
and freight, the latter including coal, timber, cement, rice and petroleum
products. The realignment and expansion of railway capacity is expencted to
lead to a reduction in operating costs and an increase in traffic from the
current level of 4.7 million tons/year in the heavy direction to 6.5 million
tons/year upon completion of the project in 1990 and to increase at 5% p.a.
thereafter. Upon reaching thke capacity limit of 8.0 million tons per year in
1994, further investments in electrification to expand capacity will be
required.
6.        Coal accounted for about 30% of the traffic hauled in 1985, and its
share of the increment is expected to be greater. The value added of the
railway capacity expansion may thus be estimated as the difference in economic
value of coal between the point of loading and the point of unloading. On the
basis of data from the Bank's Third Railway Project, the value added by
railway transport to a ton of coal may be estimated at Y 119 in 1990.
Economic Rate of Return
7.        As the incremental freight to be carried by the railway line is not
known with accuracy, the internal economic rate of return of the railway
relocation component may be estimated on the basis of assuming that the
incremental capacity will be used entirely for the carriage of coal and if
mine development costs, value added and net benefits are calculated
accordingly, the IERR can be estimated at 22%. In reality, the line will
carry a more complex mixture of traffic, which will undoubtedly vary through
time as circumstances change. However, since coal is likely to remain the
most important commodity in incremental traffic, and since it can be presumed
that other traffic will be permitted to displace coal only if it is of equal



- 100 -
AMEX 22
Page 3 of 4
urgency, the IERR estimated above appropriately reflects the value of the
project.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.        The sensitivity analysis for the railway relocation is as follows:
IERR (X)
Base case                         22
10% cost overrun                  21
10% coal price decrease           21



ANNE 22
Page 4 of 4
Table I
CHINA
SRUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Railway Relocation:  Rate of Return Calculation
Incremental    Direct        Incremental       Mine                         Coal
Freight        freight       project        rolling      development       Total         value          Net
traffic        traffic        costs          stock         costs          costs          added        benefits
Year          (mil. tons)   (mil. tons)   (mil. US$)   (mil. US$)    (mil. US$)    (mil. US$)   (mil. US$)   (mil. US$)
1985              4.7                            0.8                          15.1           15.9                       -15.9
1986              4.7                           33.2                          17.7           50.9                       -50.9
1987              4.7                           36.8                          21.1           57.9                       -57.9
1988              4.7                           48.1                          23.6           71.7                       -71.7
1989              4.7                            37.5           3.7           27.0           68.2                       -68.2
1990              6.5            1.8             28.8           0.5           12.7           42.0          67.0          25.0
1991              6.8            2.1             8.4            0.5           10.1           18.9          78.1          59.2
1992              7.2            2.5              3.4           0.5            6.7           10.6          93.0          82.4
1993              7.5            2.8              1.8           0.5            4.2            6.5         104.2          97.7
1994              7.9            3.2                                           0.8            0.8         119.0         118.2
1995-2010         8.0            3.3                                                                      122.8         122.8
IERR                                                                                                                      22%



- 102 -                       ANEX 23
Page 1 of 5
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Capital Costs
1.        The cost estimate is based on constant prices at end 1985 level.
Shadow pricing applied as follows: (i) taxes and duties were excluded; (ii)
the official exchange rate was used to convert foreign currencies to Renminbi;
(iii) border prices were used for traded goods such as cement, steel and
timber; (iv) a conversion factor of 0.5 was applied to unskilled labor coat.
No shadow pricing is necessary for skilled labor. Annual disbursements of
project cost after shadow pricing are summarized below:
Generating
Year                   Plant         Transmission    Resettlement   Total
- (Y million, 1985) -------------
1985                     20.5                                         20.5
1986                     42.9                            41.1         84.0
1987                    186.7                            59.3       246.0
1988                     82.2                            75.1        157.3
1989                    120.4                            72.7        193.1
1990                    245.2            47.0            69.6       361.8
1991                    349.7            76.4            71.1       497.2
1992                    318.2            85.7             5.9       409.8
1993                    161.4             9.5                        170.9
1994                    127.7                                        127.7
1995                     41.3                                         41.3
Total             1,696.2           218.6           394.8     2,309.6
OWm
2.        The annual O&M costs were estimated on the basis of a fixed percent-
age of the capital costs of 1% for hydro power plant and its associated trans-
mission system. Distribution costs have been estimated on the basis of a
system average of the ECPS of 3 fen/kWh.
Power Benefits
3.        Quantifying the benefits of power projects is difficult in all
countries and particularly so in China, where tariffs and most other prices
have not been subject to economic pressures and where most power is



- 103 -
ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 5
administratively allocated. It is generally observed, however, that shortages
of electricity are currently constraining China's industrial production
(causing under capacity operation) and will continue to do so in the near
future. This suggests that the economic benefits of increased power supply
will be substantial - ECEPA estimates the net value of industrial output per
kWh of electricity consumed to be about Y 1.0 in its service area. This
indicates that the value of electricity not served is about Y 1.0/kWh, at
least in the short run. In the long run, the shortage of electricity acts as
a constraint on development, as no new irivestments can be attracted or
approved unless their electricity requirements can be met.
4.        A conservative estimate of the value of the Shuikou plant used to
meet the peak of the ECG is provided by the cost of the next best alternative,
which, as discussed in Chapter VII, is presented by the 450 MW Nandafu pumped
storage project, in combination with 1000 KW of coal fired power plants.  The
discounted present value of the cost stream associated with that project is
estimated to be 20.2 fen/kWh. This estimate represents an appropriate
economic valuation of the firm power output of the Shuikou project. The
secondary power output of the project is valued at the average economic cost
of fuel in ECG's coal fired power plants - 4.5 fen/kWh.
Navigational Improvements
5.        As indicated in para. 5.03 the Shuikou project includes facilities
for navigation and is expected to significantly improve conditions for navi-
gation along the Min River between Fuzhou and Nanping City. The navigational
facilities consist of a single three-flight lock capable of accommodating 500
ton vessels, with an estimated transport capacity of 3.2 million tons
annually, and a vertical raft lift, designed to pass log and bamboo rafts,
with an estimated transport capacity of 1.6 million cubic meters annually.
Navigational conditions will improve upstream of the project as a result of
the transformation of a hazardous and swift flowing river course with numerous
rapids, submerged rocks and sand banks into a reservoir extending all the way
to Nanping City. Downstream of the dam navigational conditions will be
improved through an increase in minimum flow from 198 to 308 cubic
meters/sec. These circumstances combined will make year round 24-hour a day
navigation possible for 500 ton vessels, rather than the current maximum limit
of 80 tons/ship, and lower the high cost of upstream navigation, which consti-
tutes the most important current constraint to the development of Min River
shipping.
6.        The improvement of navigational conditions is estimated to lead to
an increase in river traffic passing through the project site from the current
level of 200-300 thousand tons per year to a level of one million tons per
year in 1995 and three million tons per year after completion of complementary
navigational facilities attached to smaller hydropower projects planned to be
built in tributaries of the Min River upstream of Nanping City during the
1996-2000 period. The main cargoes are cement, paper, rice, tea, limestone
and fertilizer, which are carried from the interior of the province to the
major consuming center and harbo- complex at Fuzhou. In addition to an
expansion of these cargoes, future traffic, as projected in the provincial
development plan, will also include large amounts of coal and metal and



-104-
ANNEX 23
Page 3 of S
nonmetal ores. In addition to these bulk cargoes, river shipping also serves
as a major carrier of passengers and small cargoes to and from river bank
villages that are not served by the railway or a convenient road.
Railway Relocation
7.        The economic evaluation of the relocation of the Waiyang-Fuzhou
railway is discussed in Annex 20.
Economic Rate of Return
8.        The internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the project is the
discount rate which equalizes the present value of economic costs and
benefits. To obtain a base case estimate, the benefits of the project have
been valued at the cost of providing alternative peaking capacity by
implementing the Nandafu pumped storage project. On this basis, the IERR of
the project is 15S (see Table 1 for details).
9.        As an alternative, the IERR of the project may also be calculated
valuing the output of the project at the projected average revenue by 1995 for
FPEPB/i.e. 12.0 fen/kWh -- based on financial requirements), deflated to 1985
levels (i.e., 7.2 fen/kWh). This approach significantly underestimates the
value of the Shuikou project as a supplier of electricity at peak. On this
basis, the IERR of the project is 8X (see Table 2 for details).
Sensitivity Analysis
10.       The sensitivity of the IERR of the project with respect to a 10l
increase in investment cost or a one-year delay in commissioning is as
follows:
IERR (2)
Base case                                  15
102 cost overrun                           14
One-year delay in commissioning            14



ANNEX 23
Table 1
Page 4 of 5
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Direct                                                      /a
capital              O&M costs          Total   Energy sales        Power benefits       Direct
investment   Gene-   Trans-   Distri-  direct  Firm   Secon-  Firm   Secon-                 net
Year           costs      ration  mission  bution   costs    /b        dary    /c    darv /d  Total  benefit
(Y mln, 1985)  --     -  (Y mln, 1985)    ---   =-  (GWh)                    (Y m l , 1985) - -
1985             20.5                                  20.5                                             -20.5
1986             84.0                                  84.0                                             -84.0
1987            246.0                                 246*0                                            -246.0
1988            157.3                                 157.3                                            -157.3
1989            193.1                                 193.1                                            -193.1
1990            361.8                                 361.8                                            -361.8
1991           497.2                                  497.2                                            -497.2
1992           409.8                                  409.8                                            -409 . 8
1993            170.9                                 170.9                                            -170.9
1994            127.7      17.0      2.2        3.8   150.7      919    495   185.7    22.3  208.0       57.3
1995             41.3      17.0      2.2       9.5    70.0   2,298  1,238   464.3    55.7  520.0    450.0
1996-2045            -        17.0      2.2      13.3    32.5   3,218  1,733   650.0    78.0  728.0    695.5
/a  Transmission and distribution losses account for 10% of energy sent out.
T Firm potential accounts for 65% of energy output.
7-c Valued at the discounted present cost of the Nandafu pumped storage alternative of 20.2 fen/kWh.
7d Valued at ECG's average economic fuel cost in coal-fired plants - 4.5 fen/kWh.



ANNEX 23
Table 2
Page 5 of 5
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Direct
capital                  O&M costs              Total       Energy output                  Direct
investment      Gene-    Trans-    Distri-    direct         Sent                Power/a      net
Year            costs         ration   mission   bution        costs       out      Sales      benefits   benefit
(Y mln, 1985)  ----------- (Y mln, 1985) ----------         -   (GWh) -         -- (Y mln, 1985) -
1985             20.5                                       20.5                                         -20.5
1986             84.0                                       84.0                                         -84.0
1987            246.0                                      246.0                                        -246.0
1988            157.3                                      157.3                                        -157.3
1989            193.1                                      193.1                                        -193.1
1990            361.8                                      361.8                                        -361.8
1991            497.2                                      497.2                                        -497.2
1992            409.8                                      409.8                                        -409.8
1993            170.9                                      170.9                                        -170.9
1994            127.7       17.0        2.2        3.8     150.7       1,414    1,273         91.7       -59.0
1995             41.3       17.0        2.2        9.5      70.0       3,336    3,182        228.3       158.3
1996-2045             -        17.0        2.2      13.3       32.5       4,950    4,455        319.7       287.2
/a   Power benefits valued at the FPEPB's projected tariffs in 1995 (i.e., 12.0 fen/kWh), deflated to 1985
level, i.e., 7.2 fen/kWh.



- 107 -
ANNEX 24
Page 1
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Least Cost Studies for ECC
1.        To assist in the appraisal of the Shuikou Project, and following
upon training received from the IAEA through the Bank's third power project
(paras. 2.12 and 4.12), the choice of the Shuikou Prol?ct was evaluated by the
WREPERI using the WASP III generation planning model.±'  The study was based
on least cost analysis with identified candidate plants and their direct and
associated costs, capacity/energy balances, power flows and loading order.
The planning period was for 12 years (1989-2000), corresponding to the long-
term power expansion program up to year 2000. However, the analysis has been
carried out up to 2010 so as to allow for consideration of a better and more
realistic optimization of the system expansion.
2.        All costs considered in this study refer to end 1985 prices.  The
coal price was the long run marginal cost at the coal-fired plant site which
includes the costs of the necessary transport from the mine to the coal-fired
power plant and the relevant coal handling charges. The cost of the
transmission lines connecting the different plants to the ECG were added to
the investment costs of the respective plants. (See Tables 1 & 2). The Loss-
of-Load-Probability (equivalent of two days per year, or 0.548%) and the cost
of energy not served (1 yuan per kwh) were used as the reliability criteria.
A real discount rate of 10% was used in the least cost analysis.
3.        The following plants for system expansion were taken into
consideration:
(a) Coal-fired Plants:
300 MW units:     6 units at Jiansu Yanjiang Power Plant
12 units at Huai Bei Power Plant
8 units at Xuzhou Power Plant
4 units at Wenzhou Power Plant
8 units at Minnan Power Plant
350 MW units:     1 unit at Fuzhou Thermal Power Station
600 MW units:     9 units at Shanghai Power Plant
8 units at Jiansu Yanjiang Power Plant
6 units at Huai Nan Power Plant
4 units at Beilungang Power Plant
Another hypothetic coal-fired plant was considered after year 2000.
1/   See report on "Economic Analysis of the Shuikou Hydroelectric Power Plant
based on the Optimal Expansion of the East China and Fujian Systems"
WREPERI, January 1986.



- 108 -
ANNEX 24
Page 2
(b) Nuclear Power Plant
1,000 MW PWR units: 2 units at Su Nan Nuclear Power Plant
(c) Hydroelectric Power Plant
Shan Xi (4 x 60 MW)
Tang Keng (4 x 150 MW)
Mien Hua Tan (4 x 150 MW)
Shui Kou (7 x 200 MW)
(d)  Oil-Fired Plants:  no oil-fired power plant was considered as a
matter of oil saving policy.
4.        The least cost analysis resulted in an optimum investment program as
follows:
Shanghai Power Plant (9 x 600 MWe)               1st unit:   1996
last unit:  2000
Yanjiang Power Plant (6 x 300 MWe)               1st unit:   1992
last unit:  2000
Yanjiang Power Plant (8 x 600 MWe)               1st unit:   1999
last unit:  2003*
Xuzhou Power Plant (8 x 300 MWe)                 1st unit:   1989
last unit:  1997
Bei Lung Gang Power Plant (4 x 600 MWe)          1st unit:   1991
last unit:  1994
Wenzhou Power Plant (4 x 300 MWe)                1st unit:   2001*
last unit:  2006*
Huai Nan Power Plant (6 x 600 MWe)               1st unit:   1993
last unit:  1998
Huai Bei Power Plant (12 x 300 MWe)              1st unit:   1989
last unit:  2000
Minnan Power Plant (8 x 300 MWe)                 1st unit:   1996
last unit:  2002*
Fuzhou Thermal Power Station (3 x 350 MWe)       last unit:  1994
Su Nan Nuclear Power Plant (2 x 1000 MWe)        1st unit:   2002*
last unit:  2003*
Shan Xi Hydro Power Plant (4 x 60 MWe)           1st stage:  1993
last stage: 1993
Tang Keng Hydro Power Plant (4 x 150 MWe)        1st stage:  1994
last stage: 1995
Shui Kou Hydro Power Plant (7 x 200 MWe)         1st stage:  1994
last stage: 1995
Mien Hua Tan Hydro Power Plant (4 x 150 MWe)   1st stage:  1996
last stage: 1997
Those plants are outside the planning period of the analysis. They are
shown here only for completeness.



- 109 -
ANNEX 24
Page 3
The analysis concluded that the commissioning of the Shuikou Hydropower
Project with seven units of 200 MW each would be justified at the earliest
practicable date which is about 1993/94. This conclusion is the same for
discount rates of 10% and 12%
5.        In order to verify the stability of the above conclusion to
hypothetical changes in project costs, a set of sensitivity analyses
considered the effects of postulated increases in the investment costs of the
Shuikou project by 5% to 20% (in steps of 5%). This analysis showed that with
increases of up to 15%, the project's commissioning schedule remained the same
as for the initial solution. With an investment cost increase of 20%, the
commissioning of the project would be postponed by one year to 1994/95, and
the gap would be filled by the advancement of two 300 MW coal-fired units in
the East China Grid. These results suggest that the optimal timing of the
project is not very sensitive to potential increases in investment costs.



ANNFX 24
Table I
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Data or Candidate Power Plants of EGG
Thermal and Nuclear Plants
Shanghai     Jiangsu      Jiangsu    Su Nan                                                                   /a        /a   Hypothetical
Name of plant:      Di Qu    Yanjiang I  Yanjiang II  Nuclear  Xuzhou  get Lung Gang  Wenzhou  Huai Nan   Huai Bei   Minnan   Fuzhou    coal plant
Total capacity (MW)                9x600        6x300         Rx600     2x1,000   8x300         4x600       4x300      6x600      12x300    8x300    lx350           /b
Present capacity (MW)                0            0             0          0         0            0           0          0           0         0         0            0
Fuel source                       Shan Xi      Shan Xi       Shan Xi    Foreign  Shan Xi       Shan Xi     Shan Xi  RLuai Nan   Huai Bei  Shan Xi  Shan Xi            -
Shan Xi    Shan Xi   Jinbei   Jinbei
Fuel consumption in terms of
standard coal (g/kWh)             306          312           306        350       312         306          312        306         312       312       312         306
Internal consumption (S)            6.5          7.0           6.5        4.2        6           5.5          6         5.5          6         6         6            6
Minimum output (% of total)          40           40           40          80       40           40           40         40         40         40       40           45
Forced output rate (%)               5           3.3            5          6        3.3           5          3.3         5          3.3       3.3       3,3           5
Maintenance time (each unit)
(days/year)                        45          40            45          55       40           45           40        45          40        40        40           45    0
First available year                1992         1989         1995        1996     1989         1991         1997       1993       1989       1995     1994         2001
Investment cost (without IDC)
(Y/kW)                           1,450        1,460         1,520      2,480    1,380        1,478        1,500      1,350      1,420      1,600    1,600        1,760
Transmission cost (Y/kW)             90          100           120         80       300          152         237        290         288        0         0            0
Unit investment cost (without
IDC) (Y/kW)                      1,540        1,560         1,640      2,560    1,680         1,630       1,737      1,640       1,708     1,600    1,600        1,760
Fixed operation cost
(YIkW/year)                       46.2        46.2          49.2        82.8     49.6         48.P         52.1      49.2        51.2      48.0      48.0         52.8
Variable operation cost
(fen/kWh)                          0            0            n                0          0            0          0           0          0              0           0
Construction tine (years)            3            3             3          7         3            3           3          3           3         3         3            3
Average price of standard
coal delivered to plant
(T/ton)                           126          119           119        /c        104         1o0          112        105         105       113       113         140
/a  Located in the Fujian System.
/b The unit size is 600 MW.
/c  Nuclear fuel composed of:  Y 370/kW (nondepreciable investment), Y 6.15/million kcal (variable Reneration cost).



- 111 -
ANNEX 24
Table 2
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Data on Candidate Power Plants for ECG
Hydroelectric Plants
Name of plant:      Shan Xi      Tan Keng       Shuikou    Mian Hua Tan
Total capacity (MW)                          4x60          4x150         7x200          4x150
Present capacity (MW)                         0              0             0              0
Location                                  Zhe Jiang    Zhe Jiang        Fu.ian         Fulian
River                                    Feiyunjiang    Oujiang        Minjiang      Tianjiang
Average annual generation for multi-         412           1,034         4,950          1,490
annual regulating characteristics   Multiannual  Multiannual   Imperfect-            Annual
(GWh)                                                                seasonal
AvailablS capacity of the reservoir
(mln m )                                  1,234         2,130          700           1,122
Average head (m)                             104.9         110.0         50.0           89.0
Construction period (years)                    6             8             9              7
First year of operation                      1992          1994          1994           1996
Forced outage rate (%)                                        
Maintenance time (each unit)
(days/year)                                 30            30            30             30
Fixed operation cost (Y/kW)                  17.4          17.4          17.4           17.4
Total investment cost (without IDC)
(Y mln)                                    449           896          2,750           600
Of which: Machinery and equipment
cost (Y min)                              -              -             -              -
Transmission cost (Y/kW)                     343           317           205             70



- 112 -
AWNEX 25
Page 1
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
(1)    Preliminary Design of Shuikou Hydroelectric Project
by ECHIDI                                                  December 1980
(2)    Review of Basic Design and Layout -- by MKE (IECO)         May 1982
(3)    Construction Planning and Scheduling -- by MKE (IECO)    February 1983
(4)    Fuzhou Province Waiyang to Fuzhou Railway, General
Description of Reconstruction Works,                       October 1985
(5)    Advances & Construction schedule of Preparatory Works
for Shuikou Hydroelectric Project, SHPC                    October 1985
(6)    A Brief Introduction to SHPC                               October 1985
(7)    Shuikou Hydroelectric Project -- Engineer's
Cost Estimates                                             February 1985
(8)    Shuikou Hydroelectric Project    Information for
project appraisal, FPEPB                                   January 1986
(9)    Benefits of Shuikou Project under coordinated
operation with existing hydroelectric power plants
of Fujian Grid and Fujian-East China Grid                  March 1986
(10)   A supplement of Least Cost Analysis                        March 1986
(11)   Influence of Flood Back up Water Level in the
Xiii Creek by Nanping Foot Bridge                          March 1986
(12)   Study on Impact to Fishery Resource in Minjiang River    March 1986
(13)   Proposal on Sediment Measuring in Shuikou Reservoir        March 1986
(14)   Arrangement of Boundary Markers in Flooded Area
at Resevoir                                                March 1986
(15)   Tentative Provision of Water Resource Protection in
Minjiang River, Fujian Province                            March 1986
(16)   Scheduling considerations                                  March 1986
(17)   Selection of Hydro Turbine                                 March 1986



-113 -
AMNEX 25
Page 2
(18)   Economic Analysis of the Shuikou Hydroelectric Power
Plant based on the Optimal Expansion of the East China
and Fujian Systems                                        March 1986
(19)   Design Specifications for Dealing with Inundation of
Water Conservancy and Hydroelectric Power Project
Reservoirs                                                March 1986
(20)   Methods for Implementing "National Construction Land
Requisition Regulations" in Fujian Province               March 1986
(21)   Charter of FPEPB (English translation)                     March 1986
(22)   Information on Health Conditions Related to
Reservoir Area                                             January 1986
(23)   Consideration on the Problem of Pollution of
Nanpings's Water Supply after Reservoir Impounding
(24)   Consideration for Prevention of Future Encroachments
into Flood-prone Channels of Shuikou Reser'oir            January 1986
(25)   Protection of Revegetation for Construction Slopes of
Relocated Highway and Railway                              January 1986
(26)   Information of Typical Investigation for Environmental
Condition, in the Catchment Area of Shuikou Hydro-
electric Project                                           January 1986
(27)   Shaxikou Hydroelectric Project, Fujian Province,
Implementation of Resettlement for Inhabitants
in Reservoir Area                                          February 1986
(28)   A Brief Description Relocation of Waiyang-Fuzhou
Railway in Connection with the Construction Works of
Shuikou Hydroelectric Project and its Benefits             January 1986
(29)   National Construction Land Requisition Regulations
(30)   Explanation of Various Problems about "National
Construction and Land Requisition Regulations"
(31)   Report on Resettlement Planning for the Shuikou
Hydroelectric Station on the Minjiang River,
Fujian Province                                            August 1983



- 114-                                        Chart 1
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Organizoafon Chat of the Eletdc Power Industly Wlthin
the Ministy of Water Resources and Eletic Power
. I             Ihlo Wate.          Electc POWe
Of Science &  of Praming                                 ~~~~~~~~Hydropower                         oig
Technrolot             PIce                                                                       Enveneereng CDlteges
Capt ctdon            Itfl_dute
nonce~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sinii &b W4e
_    D    t      _      uDeportent dydropowet                                                         Elctrc
FOepaQWv of      -   o EleMctciy          Demtw              WWPw              CIsuto               O     eg           Teachnia
Foreig AffohProduction              d Pesne            dnIitan             Bureaux             Intiutes           eWh
Department          Departrment                          HydOpow
Deportment       d Caipital            dA Labor                         SuiveV & Design-
of Finance   ~CosrutiWon             & wages                              Instiutes
Bureau Of          Dpfw                rvnil
Bureau Of                               Deomnnkt         ElectrIc Power
Power& DlVatchlng                          r Eauucmes  xUNDsUX
Depoarment           Bureau o
Of Ruralrm 
Electriication      Nuclear Power
Electri Por       Tanmsso                               ECrI 
I4ydrcr &Thermal  urecau of       &Sbtton           Eeti                  Resear(ch
Power Plants         Prefectures      Cosrcin          Dsi siue               abtaortories
World Bank-30236:5



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE FWIAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
g.t,~~~      II-
_ .w
1W1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 i                                                    I
.  .              ll      l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.c.
,WORLD "K 3'SG       I



CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
_ _QUANTrY        eB7           1988           1989          1990           4991           1992          1993           1994           1996
UNr  QUANTrry 4  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  _   2  3  4  4  2  3  4  1  2  3  4   1 2  3  4  t  2  3  4  i  2  3  4
2 D                                                                  S3SISS 3Sl SIl    Sill  SIl                                                                                              l
4    0    ,C       d Cokwo pmoW    wor                             It pol el to los to  as #    e   11 t  issl
2 Olewton wsohic
earth. Sand and graVetkck
A ForAlnancavabon ot dJWrson charne                0       39/3799        .33 Z     _    U _    U 1
S ConCrelln of dIversn w(A                        10' m'   220
A         nlomo    etc %    t  Coe 1 man cof ecnos    C. Closu* of co rndom for coshI  diversion CaW      l      l 
C Construction of calroaIIIICorituetion of Cotlerdom for closin dlv0r3on 
C C d c dbrse ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~an |||||coferda                                                         n           n                -    vIotrcSion conclldoaelfi 
0 Molcture sinin of diveson codi gates                       40
and Canc"el pkjg
3. DOaM
eoft, san and Wov*Moick
A Excovotonof dOmcn ootiOn                                427/788                           U  U  U  U                      1 U            |   
B COncrefing                                      40' in'   4B53                                                   u         m      m     u.....t   1 1 1 1 | I     II i
C Erection d gate an4d hoists Icr sWM, hItke         T     10.280                                                    I  tm__m...
anbd bedto  oofles and4 snoertal Parts
| C Erection d  D h pen|o                            T      4.478                                                    I                                                      |
A .ado n esiocaalon  eorth. sanld anld grov,,occk  40' ml  404t1207                                        -MI
1unnel to powerhoue anlaoobl tunne 4l
B CoefinG                                         IC%Q      466                                                           EU -               .    .h         l        i  13111311im  1o
C EIectot boflrsce gates. hoist and Orbedded par     a T    970                                                                 m             Castr g 
D Erecmon (A tuA     and genwow                    Unrt      7                                                              E                         E   U  I        H           E          E_
6. 220      3d Swllcarovd
A excasafon d cocei     Krlcorcrete               40' mn'  526t30                                      U W    U  I  U  U  U  U  U
| B Erecaton d  nes ond eectrc equienl|t
j              _                                        ml    560                                                        U  U   EHEoKk  k                     I60
I NWMg01ofn wo.ks
.4. Foundation eova,001on
manah' Kaind and grawe/rok                    10' m'   87M3
B Comcreltrg                                      10'%n'  2070
C Erecto or gales and hoists and inlsdded part
FFT7~~~~~~~~d a*- 06



NOTES



NOTES
I ~ ~    ~    ~     Ns



MAP SECTION



IBRD 19561
,'  XUZHOU NQ1 /ISOOMW)           t1s               t2c                12V                122                123'
XINI ;A/                                           H I N A
f86 4 M WY
0          T        \  ...S,SHUIKOU HYDRO-ELECTRIC PROJECT
HUA$E    '                                                                                 Link With East China Grid
lvo 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                            yr owrPat
(Z50 M,f     l -:            w    R          .Qnilant                                        UNDER   FUTURE
. t   , ' '  '   ' ' .  'EXISTING CONSIRUCTION PROJECT  PROJECT
500kV Transmission Lines
r .  A  A   i500 kV Substations
0 '   '  '''' 'e   , \  O   GIThermal Power Plants
33 s e.3Sy Z -   's /  e \    ' '  ;   ,  ,\ J I A  N  G  S U                                   Nuclear Power Plant
-   0B%' ial ?.  fiengbu  *  ' j   dJJ  \  - >  \\                                               Rivers
Province Boundaries
=  ;  I   's'          NNy      '1     Zhnt    ';AN \NOG. 
3N   HANH       I                         TIANSI                         0        A30C MW)
32'    i,OHefe,                    N                                          0 "     AM:                                               32
oWANGVG                   SHANGHAI SHI
S        z   S                     / ~~~~~~~~~~ (800oo,W  ,\       $AOaA SM.IN S^tE  MILL(l2v3$0MW) iS81f
21'                                                                            N t_ . , . Suzhou    VANSHI M 'MW/
31 ^ t T I                                                                     WUJlh (30MW                       3
31-~~~~ $b ,    ..  I, ,. ., .J\4.__HANt$HAI  j"M/GNGS/6Ptf9SMWJ 1
(J 37MW)                                       ' )     1 
JINSHAN /25ISMWj
00CHENCUIV
AnAlng o               ~~~~/ISt7 MW]                ,{        Er 
i  *    ' HAhGZHOV
A              gzAO Hongzho ;
ZHENVHA/ (250 M4W)                                     30S
Ningbo
1V \  >              ,         -          ,"LfUCHUNJIANG
. . . .......                   (2972 MW)
X'NANJIANG
29'                                                     JIN1UA      Z H E J I A N G                                                     29
-_ HL UA NGT (41(00                                  0  TA /tOU (250 MW/
( W  302f WI
J I A NGXI
H UANZHEfN
J    170 MW/
/fW
28'3                             8/m                                                                                             8
2a-     _<          ,e y     .           .  ., .    ~~~~~~~~Wenzhou'
,<r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ib@/
.                               ~~       ~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~01  5-0 10 15
1! g   G   .jz  Fkilometers
,1                        \    FUJIAN
2r,./~~~~~~~ U J27A
27'-
y, -V h, been eottd by
bew INIx 8xenw'tese -a91
m          GUTIANXI                                                              teedn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~irs os,  Amr beIh
CHITAN                  O Nanping           W OUTIANXI                                                           _      kab * fo, 
(100MW)     17                                                                                     CO~~~~~~~~~~~~W  -IW~OfOO  The Ktondneh.*
seed ee Se be,.Wamse .ho
, '   ' ' ' '   \                                                        tt sos o sso x>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n9e1epde9ef,pr so hr
pe' afThe f Sank e, old U.w
E-             ..10.I.i(ondceGa,0
ANSHA                          SHJilKOU     Fuzhou                                                         any rsaWd tc en 0* IelSM
(t15MW)                         (1400 MW)     O                                                             of fdxem  any9.
11r                 18i'                                    120'                t21-                tXhb9e.12                       25'  '
APRIL 1986



-~~  -~~    ~~~  tir                                    I18                                   t9                                   12a i-                               12S'1
Cto Hrtrgzhlou
SHUIKOU HYDRO-ELECTRIC PROJECT                                         :    jlgtDevelopment Area|
Scheme  of M in Jiangt Valley  Development                                                                                              P  YROjEECTRI  OE   LNS
-28'                                                                .-- s/                                                                 Planned 
r  >  C t)'  t      ,IW,j \                                       _      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Shuikou Trarssmission Line
<  9/   !  -\V >/  gA  ,                -igX  z H E J I    ANG- -Province Boundaries
J IA N G XI             J        r-"     <                         0tAntll,             '\                                                   C
.'~~~~~~~~~ 'Mol  ' )'  htN '<~g   
S  fi    b  /  + \       /~~~V.1,1    s4  uo ,tO Sap                2     +S                                                             ,sx 0 40J 50  6 0
'>;>-tz    / vJ   ~~~-(~~->( s.S) >'ongSS,.XikOssr     ,                           ,>                                      [     t;~~~~ I N G S U
_~ ~ ~Sngupn                                                                      I   1--                                I /i-                              A N H U4vA   



IBRD  19563
NM~~~~~~KO
/' . ~ 4 ' _             29, . .,29
*V                 i.        A reaJu" 08 0'10
4_N,/ KM., U
> /ef   .t     -28'                                   ZHFJANG                         28'
.4-                                                                      "-482\     -_    
106' 9S-                                                         5/.107'
Shaowu
J4NGXI                                                 /
10b'              107'    tr -/    \
-21'                   w_   - + t      /          \\\            \                                                            27:
'   TQnin\
ton                     IdShunchong
g          i~~~~Critan        \\  HuafgdOflg
.                  \. 8hQkOUs{   t              ~       sGt
|Milnx,g_ o\
1080n -1 HlXlshan            u Lima                           \Domuxi
Qngil *songkoup jn fSnhUl
-26'             .2 /t          _       ,   /                                       8      e hou
Y Arffiho ~ yS "$ {ongqan             Kenin Y   4 
r  G-anqlan           Kenqblon                                  Yongt      r    g
.           |                                         I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FuqwingA"Fu"qi
2"               --                                                        I   /fan
9                Lam~~oyngmeoWnme //j
-2S' ,H  VA                    Lonomen         Huon                      /                                                    25:-
huaha_          1       Li/ \   \\Quozhou,>/                                                      2
/ ~7Chun ;SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
X       s  >   sni~~OMen                        FUJIAN POWER GRID
\   ~ ~   Donayu                    ~~UNDF
,         D~~UJSDIW  CONSICTO  RJl>&  PROPOSED
- ~~~~~220kV TrarnsmWon lines
-24'                                                                                                110kVTronsmisslon lines
A                A           220W Substations
\  A                         110kV Substations
GUAAG"ONG                                                                            e           Thermal power plants
-       ,-K.             l  HydH opower plants
r    r;' ,<                                              Rivers
. f  !-    -   Province boundades
InteraIonal boUndaIes
-;                                0     25    S0    75   100
I ,IO                  I IO
MAY 1986



