Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15843
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2775-CHA)
June 28, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y)
At Appraisal (March 1986) $1 = Y 3.7
Exchange Rates Dtiring Project Years
Year Avg.
1987    -      3.73
1988    -      3.73
1989    -      4.73
1990    -      5.24
1991     -     5.45
1992    -      5.77
1993    -      5.81
1994    -      8.46
1995    -      8.33
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
CAD      -   Computer Assisted Design
ECIDI   -   East China Investigation and Design Institute
EMIP     -   Environmental Management Plan
EPO      -   Environmental Protection Office
FIDIC    -   Federation Instructionale des Ingenieurs Conseils
FPEPB   -   Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
GOC      -   Government of China
ICB      -   Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR      -   Implementation Completion Report
EERR     -   Intemal Economic Rate of Retum
LC       -   Letter of Credit
MOE      -   Ministry of Energy
RCC      -   Roller Compact Concrete
SBC      -   Special Board of Consultants
SHPC    -   Shuikou Hydroelectric Project Corporation
SRRO    -   Shuikou Reseivoir Resettlement Office



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary..........................................................................
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives ........1......................................I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ...............................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................3
D. Project Sustainability ..............................................                                       17
E. Bank Performance ..............................................                                             17
F. Borrower Performance ..............................................                                         18
G. Assessment of Outcome ..............................................                                        19
H. Future Operation ..............................................                                             19
I.   Key Lessons Learned ..............................................                                        20
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .22
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .23
Table 3: Project Timetable .26
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .26
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .27
Table 6: Key Indicators fo.- Project Operation .28
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .29
Table 8a:  Project Costs ........................................                                              31
Table 8b:  Project Financing ........................................                                         32
Table 9:    Economic Analysis of Power Plant ........................................                         33
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ........................................                                 36
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................. 37
Table 12:  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .........................................                            38
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ........................................                                  38
FIGURE  1:  Actual Progress vs. Target Schedule ..............................................                             39
ANNEX  1:  Projected and Actual Financial Statements of FPEPB ............................... 40
ANNEX  2:   Implementation Review  prepared by the Borrower ................................... 43
ANNEX  3:   Aide-Memoire Extract fcr Completion Mission ........................................ 54
This document has a restricted distribulion and may be used by recipients only in the perfomanxc of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2775-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Shuikou Hydroelectric
Project in China for which Loan 2775-CHA in the amount of$ 140 million was approved on
January 15, 1987 and made effective on March 25, 1987. It was the first of two loans for the
Shuikou dam and power plant, the second being Loan 3515-CHA, approved on September 1,
1992. This somewhat unusual approach was adopted because of the long implementation
period and monolithic nature of the project facilities.
The loan was closed on June 3uJ, 1993, 18 months beyond the dale originally
envisaged. Final disbursement was made on August 5, 1993 when the balance of the loan
($929.20) was canceled. At the time of closing of the first loan, construction of the project
facilities was well advanced, but by no means complete, with construction continuing under the
second loan. It was decided therefore to delay the issue of the ICR until substantial completion
of the components covered by the first loan, to allow meaningful evaluation of the project and
distillation of lessons learned. An ICR for the second loan is scheduled for May 1998. This
will update conclusions from this ICR, and also cover additional scope under the second
project.
The ICR was prepared by Barry Trembath, Infrastructure Division, China and
Mongolia Department of the East Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Mr. Richard
Scurfield, Division Chief, and Mr. Juergen Voegele, Acting Project Advisor. The
Borrower/Beneficiary provided comments, which are included as an annex to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during a completion mission in March 1996. It is
based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, Supervision Reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower/Beneficiary, internal Bank memoranda
and interviews with Bank and Borrower/Beneficiary staff involved in project implementation.
The Borrower/Beneficiary contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing their own
evaluation of the execution and implementation of the project, and by providing comments on
the draft Bank ICR that were incorporated in the final version.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2775-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the Shuikou Hydroelectric Project were to: (a) develop a major
hydroelectric site to serve the Fujian and East China grids; (b) introduce the latest technology
for dam and power station construction; (c) link the East China and Fujian power grids, and
promote effective integrated operation of a major regional grid; and (d) upgrade Fujian
Provincial Electric Power Bureau (FPEPB) capability in financial management and
management of large civil works contracts.
2.    The project comprised: (a) construction of a 101 m high concrete gravity dam, a
spillway, a powerhouse, a navigation lock and appurtenant works at Shuikou on the Min River
in Fujian Province; (b) provision and installation of seven generating units of 200 MW each and
the associated electrical system including a 500 kV step-up substation; (c) construction of a
single-circuit 500 kV transmission line from Shuikou to Hangzhou, including necessary
equipment in a substation at Jinhua; (d) resettlement of about 63,000 people in the reservoir
area; (d) consulting services for design and construction management; and (f) studies and staff
training.
3.    The objectives were relevant and important in the context of Government and
Bank strategy in the power sector at the time of appraisal. Government strategy focused
on acceleration of hydro development, with construction of necessary transmission lines,
and updating technology in the sector. Bank strategy was to assist the Government in
funding power system expansion in priority areas and in association with these investments
to introduce modern utility management concepts as well as updating technology in
technical areas. The objectives of the project were therefore consistent with Government
and Bank strategies.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project achieved its primary objective of developing a major hydroelectric site.
The ex-post intemal economic rate of return (IERR), at 21.5 percent, substantially
exceeds the original expectations of 15 percent, because demonstrated "willingness-to-
pay" is greater than original estimates, and because power and energy is entirely absorbed
by the Fujian grid, obviating the necessity to construct a long transmission line to connect



11
to the East China grid. Modern construction technology was successfully introduced,
enabling the civil works to be completed substantially on schedule despite setbacks from
force majeure events. The objective of promoting effective operation of a major grid has
been achieved with the completion of studies and carrying forward the results into FPEPB
operations and subsequent investments. The objective of upgrading local capabilities in
management of large civil works was convincingly demonstrated when the implementing
agency and its construction manager had a major influence in recovery from initial delays
during implementation.
5.    The first generating unit was commissioned on August 1, 1993 two months behind
the appraisal schedule. The subsequent three units were commissioned four to seven
months behind schedule, and the remaining three approximately one year behind schedule
due to delays in equipment deliveries, which for later units were exacerbated due to
casting defects resulting in rejection of the castings. However, despite these delays,
energy generation has been close to original targets. In 1995, with only four units in
operation for most of the year, the output of the power plant was 4,763 GWh, which is
only slightly below the design output in an average year of 4,950 GWh with all units
operating.
6.    With regard to final costs in comparison with appraisal, there was a cost overrun
of 0.5 percent when expressed in US dollars and 72 percent when expressed in local
currency. These variations are due to the higher-than-expected inflation in China and
devaluation of the local currency from an exchange rate of Y3 .70 to $1 at the time of
appraisal to Y8.33 to $1 at the end of 1995. If actual expenditures are de-escalated to the
appraisal date, then overall costs are about 18 percent above those originally anticipated,
excluding the effects of inflation and devaluation. The cost overrun is almost entirely
explained by resettlement costs which overran by 78 percent in real terms. The increase in
resettlement costs was largely due to increased compensation costs which outpaced
inflation. The responsiveness of the resettlement process to changing circumstances must
be viewed positively.
7.    The resettlement task was carried out according to plan, with all affected persons
relocated on time. New infrastructure and housing represents a considerable improvement
on that originally existing. Average income has already surpassed the before-moving
level, after allowing for inflation, and this situation should improve in the next few years as
newly planted orchards come into production. However, the progress is not evenly
distributed among all new villages, with some having been done quite well and some
having been done poorly. The independent agency appointed to evaluate resettlement is
identifying villages and individuals still experiencing difficulties. Continuing resettlement
efforts will concentrate on identified problem areas.
8.    All elements are present to ensure sustainability of the project. Technically, the
finished hydroelectric development is of good quality and the units have operated at a high
availability over the initial operating period of up to three years. The pricing arrangements
for the power plant output will ensure satisfactory economic and financial returns. On the
institutional side, the upgrading of local capabilities has already been carried over to future



operations. The resettlement and rehabilitation process once it has fully achieved its
objective will be sustainable in terms of the presence of an economic base that will
continue to provide households with income over the long term.
9.    Both Bank and Borrower performance are rated as highly satisfactory from
identification to appraisal. Of particular note were the ultimately successful efforts made
on both sides to get implementation back on track after initial implementation difficulties
which threatened the success of the project. The performance of the implementing
agency, its designer and construction manager are particularly commendable.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
10.   The objectives of the project were consistent with those of the Chinese
Government and the Bank and the project achieved its major objectives. The outcome is
rated as highly satisfactory, and sustainability as likely.
11.   The Project Operation Plan summarizes the arrangements made for future
operations in terms of organization and staffing, training, operating and maintenance
procedures, power dispatch, methodology for efficient use of water, dam safety
procedures, flood warning and environmental monitoring. Resettlement activities are
continuing with future funding being largely provided by the reservoir development fund
which will generate income based on energy production of about Y20 million per year.
The Bank is continuing its involvement with FPEPB in connection with the Second
Shuikou Hydroelectric Project which is scheduled to close at the end of 1997.
Supervision of this project will be the vehicle for supervising the resettlement process up
until full restoration of income. The second project built on the first project's limited
objectives for institutional development of FPEPB by including a tariff reform action plan
which is being implemented. Beyond this, FPEPB has been selected by the Government as
one of the 100 state-owned enterprises to be commercialized and corporatized on a pilot
basis, the only power company so chosen.
12.   The key lessons to be learned from this project are:
(a)   It is important that prequalification criteria with respect to joint ventures
ensure that each partner of the joint venture is qualified to carry out its
responsibilities, and that an acceptable joint venture agreement detailing
rights and responsibilities, including joint and several liability, be obtained
before contract signature.
(b)   The two-stage loan approach achieved its objective in reducing the early
repayment burden before power plant commissioning. It was also
appropriate in the environment of a fast growing economy and power
system in that it allowed reevaluation of project scope and financial and
institutional objectives at mid-term. However, disadvantages were
difficulties in opening letters of credit in the absence of Bank commitment
for the second loan, and the considerable cost of processing the second



iv
loan on both Bank and Borrower sides. This might indicate the desirability
of adding a two tranche investment loan to the Bank's product line, with
reduced requirements and documentation for the second tranche.
(c)   Resettlement activities are continuing and it is intended to produce a
detailed report on positive and negative lessons learned from the process
which will be summarized in the ICR for the Second Shuikou Hydroelectric
Project. A preliminary assessment of lessons learned, with emphasis on
areas where further improvements in the Chinese resettlement process are
possible, is as follows:
(i)    While decentralization of resettlement planning and implementation
to local levels works well in terms of maximizing participation, it is
still essential to have a strong central resettlement office, preferably
answering directly to the implementing agency, that can provide the
necessary leadership, technical assistance and monitoring of
resettlement activities at the local levels.
(ii)   Comprehensive resettlement monitoring systems providing as much
disaggregation as possible should be developed along with
resettlement plans.
(iii)   Resettlement planning should be further advanced at appraisal
stage, to allow more detailed cost estimates to be carried out.
These estimates should develop costs for measures necessary to
restore income for comparison with compensation costs which
finance these measures.
(iv)   Implementation of resettlement implementation should be advanced
as much as possible, particularly land development for agriculture,
to reduce or even eliminate the time lag between reservoir filling
and full restoration of income.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2775-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The objectives of the Shuikou I-iydroelectric Project were to: (a) develop a major
hydroelectric site to serve the Fujian and East China grids; (b) introduce the latest technology
for dam and power station construction; (c) link the East China and Fujian power grids, and
promote effective integrated operation of a major regional grid; and (d) upgrade the capability
of the FPEPB in financial management and management of large civil works contracts.
2.    The project comprised:
(a)   construction of a 101 m high concrete gravity darn, a spilway, a powerhouse, a
navigation lock and appurtenant works at Shuikou on the Min River;
(b)   provision and installation of seven generating units of 200 MW each and the
associated electrical system including a 500 kV step-up substation;
(c)   construction of a single-circuit 500 kV transmission line from Shuikou to
Hangzhou, including necessary equipment in a substation at Jinhua;
(d)   resettlement of about 63,000 people in the reservoir area;
(e)   consulting services for design and construction management; and
(f)   studies and staff training.
3.    Four and a half years into the implementation of the project, during appraisal of the
Second Shuikou Hydroelectric Project (Ln. 351 5-CHA), the Bank agreed with the Borrower
that, due to exceptional load growth in the Fujian grid, interconnection to East China to export
Shuikou power was no longer viable since Fujian would absorb the full output of the power
plant. The objective of linking the two grids was therefore dropped, and this was reflected in
the statement of objectives for the second project. Nevertheless, with the growing size and
importance of the Fujian grid in its own right, the objective of promoting effective integrated
operation of a major grid was retained.
4.    The development of the reservoir population, while not singled out as a specific
development objective, would be undertaken in the context of OPN 10.08 and OMS 2.33;
these Bank guidelines call for the relocation of the reservoir population in a manner that



2
would leave them after relocation as well off as before, possibly better. To this end a
detailed resettlement plan was prepared in 1984 for the relocation and re-establishment of
63,495 persons living in 15 townships and 88 villages at a cost of US$100 million. The
plan, summarized in Annex 17 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), showed that due to a
shortage of replacement land for traditional agriculture, alternatives such as forestry and
orchards would be developed on hill slopes. Apparently due to a misunderstanding, the
SAR project resettlement numbers only included resettlement in rural areas, and did not
include urban resettlement in Nanping City involving an additional 17,125 persons. This
component was separated in the resettlement planning process since it did not require any
income restoration activities, only reconstruction of infrastructure and housing which the
Chinese planners considered to be relatively straightforward.
5.    The primary objectives were clearly stated in the appraisal report, and are judged to
have been realistic. The objectives were also relevant and important in the context of
governnent and Bank strategy in the power sector at the time of appraisal.
6.    Important elements of government strategy were acceleration of hydro development;
construction of extra high voltage transmission lines to transmit power from remote hydro sites
to high growth areas, and for interconnection between regions; and introduction of modem
techniques in project design and system planning.
7.    Bank strategy was to assist the government in funding power system expansion in
priority areas, and in association with these investments, to introduce modem concepts of
utility management and facilitate technology transfer in planning, design, construction and
operation of power systems and their components. The objectives of the project were
consistent with Bank strategy in all of the above areas.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    The project achieved its primary objective of developing a major hydroelectric site.
Despite some delays in project implementation, the ex-post IERR at 21.5 percent
substantially exceeds the original expectation of 15 percent because (a) demonstrated
"willingness to pay" is greater than original estimates; and (b) power and energy is entirely
absorbed by the Fujian grid, obviating the need to construct a long transmission line to
connect to East China. Even before completion of installation of the last generating unit,
revenue from the project is already approaching half the cost of the dam and power plant.
9.    The modem technology for dam and power station construction was successfully
introduced. This enabled the project civil works to be completed generally on schedule,
despite setbacks from force majeure events. The modern construction techniques
pioneered at Shuikou are now being accepted as the norm for large projects in China,
validating the "demonstration" strategy.
10.   The objective of promoting effective integrated operation of a major grid has been
achieved with the completion of studies and the carrying forward of their results into
FPEPB operations and subsequent investments. While the Fujian grid is smaller than that



3
of East China--originally envisaged as the target of the studies, its projected size in the
year 2000 (in terms of installed capacity) is in the same order as that of the East China
Grid at the time of project appraisal.
11.   The objective of upgrading local capabilities in management of large civil works
contracts was convincingly demonstrated when the executing agency, FPEPB and its
construction manager, Shuikou Hydroelectric Project Corporation (SHPC), played a
major role in overcoming initial delays during project implementation.
12.   Achievements in financial management were modest, but commensurate with the
limited objectives of the project training component in this area.
13.   The resettlement task was carried out according to plan between 1988 and 1992;
67,239 persons in rural areas, and 17,215 persons in Nanping City, were physically
relocated. By mid-1995, 34063 new jobs had been created approaching the total
requirement. Average income had already surpassed the before moving level, and this
situation should improve in the next few years as newly planted orchards come into
production. On the physical side, per capita housing space has increased from 30.0m2
before moving to 37.9 m2 in 1994 and inundated infrastructure has been replaced. To
date, Y1,034 million has been spent on resettlement and rehabilitation. The original
budget was Y410 million.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Organization
14.   FPEPB was the executing agency for the project. For the Shuikou power plant a
special organization, SHPC, was set up to manage construction of the project and exercise
the functions of the engineer under the Federation Instructionale des Ingenieurs Conseils
(FIDIC) Conditions of Contract. East China Investigation and Design Institute (ECIDI)
served as the designer. The contract for the main civil works was awarded to a Chinese-
foreign construction joint venture while the contract for the installation of electro-
mechanical equipment was awarded to an experienced national level construction bureau
after local competitive bidding. Resettlement in the reservoir area was managed by the
Shuikou Reservoir Resettlement Office (SRRO), a special unit established by the Fujian
Provincial Govemment for this purpose. International consultants were employed to assist
SHPC in all aspects of construction and contract management, and ECIDI in design
management and the review of bid documents. A Special Board of Consultants (SBC)
was also appointed to review and comment at various stages during design and
construction on the major technical issues, scheduling, management, environment, and
resettlement.



4
Preparatory Works
15.   Major preparatory works were carried out prior to commencing the main civil
works, providing excellent conditions for a rapid stprt-up of the main contract. These
included: (a) relocation of 21.9 km of highway; (b) a 350 m long construction bridge
across the Min River; and (c) construction power, communications, a railway freight yard
and a pilot construction camp. In addition, relocation of 59 km of railway line began on
August 1, 1986 before commencement of the main civil works and was completed in
November 1989, in time for the closure of the Min River.
Dam and Power Plant Construction
Overall Progress in Comparison with Schedule in SAR
16.   The implementation schedule established in the SAR provided for commencement
of the main civil works in January 1987, commissioping of the first unit after 6'/2 years
(June 1993) with the six subsequent units commissioned at four month intervals. There
were three critical intermediate dates related to the river diversion schemes, main river
closure on September 30, 1989, transition from Stage II to Stage III in September 30,
1991 and reservoir impoundment on March 31, 1993. In addition, there was a critical
date for handover of the assembly and powerhouse bridge cranes to the power house
equipment installation contractor in December 1991. The schedule was demanding, even
by the standards of an experienced intemational contractor.
17.   With the joint efforts of all concemed parties, many difficulties and problems were
overcome and key dates were essentially met. The Min River was closed on September
25, 1989 with the river diverted through a diversion channel. The transition from Stage II
to Stage III was carried out on November 20, 1991, and the reservoir impoundment
started on April 2, 1993. Generating unit commissionings were delayed slightly because
of delays in supply of turbine and generator components. The first six units were put into
operation on August 1, 1993, February 8, 1994, September 2, 1994, December 28, 1994,
November 6, 1995 and December 28, 1995, respectively. (Refer to the bar chart "Actual
Progress vs. Target Schedule", included as Figure 1.) While delays associated with
contractor problems and equipment procurement caused an 18-month delay in loan closing
(from December 1991 to June 1993), implementation performance was notable.
Main Civil Works Contract
18.   After International Competitive Bidding (ICB), the main civil contract was
awarded to a joint venture of a foreign contractor and three Chinese partners. The bid
was the lowest by a considerable margin, but after extensive clarification and deliberation,
the Engineer judged the construction method to be reliable, and the bid to represent the
lowest evaluated price. The Bank indicated no objection to the evaluation and award.
About 18 months into the construction period, it became evident that the contractor could
not achieve the required progress with existing equipment on which his bid was largely
based, and substantial additional purchases of new construction equipment would be



5
required. Other factors contributing to delays were management problems and many
internal conflicts within the joint venture, and financial constraints imposed by the very
low bid price. Discussions between the parties to the contract resulted in proposals for
contractual reorganization, with a Chinese partner taking over management responsibilities
from the foreign partner, an increase in advance payment from 15 percent to 25 percent
with repayment over a longer period, and increase in foreign exchange proportion from
48.4 percent to 65 percent. The Bank agreed to these contract amendments, and the
Ministry of Energy supported the effort by transferring experienced construction groups to
the region to act as subcontractors. As a result of these measures, progress improved
considerably.
19.   A review carried out by FPEPB in February 1989, while indicating that the first
key diversion date could be met, revealed that progress in later stages would again be
affected by lack of equipment. The Bank was therefore requested to finance the purchase
of construction equipment by the owner, which would be hired out to the contractor. The
Bank declined, taking the position that equipment finance was the responsibility of the
equity partners. As expected, the con.tractor met the critical date for river diversion in
September 1989, but by this time concrete preparation activities critical to second stage
diversion were estimated to be some six months behind schedule.
20.   Immediately after the river closure, cofferdam work in 1990 progressed well.
Plastic concrete cut-off walls below the upstream and downstream main cofferdams were
completed on January 6, 1990 and February 9, 1990, respectively. The foundation pit
dewatering was finished on February 21, 1991 allowing excavation of dam and
powerhouse foundations to commence. The upstream and downstream cofferdams
reached their design elevation in May 1990.
21.   However, the delayed procurement of components of the concrete production
system and inadequate technical personnel and labor resulted in low initial foundation
concrete placing rates although foundation areas were ready for placing. By the time of
the completion of Stage II concrete systems, including the batching plant, cooling system
and cable crane placement systems in August 1990, concrete placement in the dam and
powerhouse was about three months behind schedule.
22.   In order to speed up the progress and simplify the construction, ECIDI
investigated design changes, and SHPC took the lead in computerized scheduling studies,
resulting in a revised master schedule which took advantage of some design adjustments
and diversion schedule modifications to maintain the overall completion date. These
adjustments included the following measures:
(a)   Since the cooling plant was not available for placing dam foundation
concrete during the first summer after diversion, MgO concrete was used
to simplify temperature control of mass concrete.
(b)   Roller Compacted Concrete (RCC) was used in the lower blocks of the
dam and powerhouse and in the downstream training wall separating



6
spillway and powerhouse discharges. This allowed the use of dump trucks
to transport RCC supplementing the placing capacity of the crane. Related
design changes included the contraction joint for RCC dam blocks, raising
the diversion conduit bottom slab elevation to increase the quantity of RCC
in the spillway section and changing the training wall into a gravity, rather
than reinforced concrete, structure.
(c)   Slip forms were used for powerhouse tailrace piers, intake trashrack frames
and the diversion conduit bulkhead gate frames. In situ concrete
connecting slabs and columns in these areas were changed to precast
members and the longitudinal joint between block A and B in the spillway
section was relocated to allow Block A to be raised independently.
(d)   Soffits of the diversion conduits and intake bellmouths were changed to
precast members to eliminate the time required for forming, curing and
formwork removal and to simplify construction.
(e)   Intake stop logs originally intended to be manufactured by the contractor
were eliminated, and the permanent emergency gates provided by the
Owner were used as stoplogs. Reinforced concrete structures for draft
tube gates and the powerhouse roof were changed to steel gates and steel
trusses respectively.
(f)    Adjustments were also made to the diversion scheme. According to the
contract schedule, floods in the 1992 high flow season would be discharged
through 10 temporary diversion conduits and over the spillway ogee. The
Stage III cofferdam at the upstream end of the diversion channel was an
embankment designed to survive a one in ten year dry season high flow.
To lower concrete placement requirements for the headblocks of the
navigational facilities and dam blocks prior to the 1992 flood season and
prior to the diversion transition from stage II to stage III, the diversion
scheme was changed to 10 diversion conduits plus I 00m wide low sections
in the spillway section. The embankment cofferdam was changed to an
RCC section, designed to withstand a 10 year flood before overtopping and
to survive overtopping. The schedule for diversion transition from stage II
to stage III was adjusted from September 30, 1991 to the drier season in
November extending the stage II placing period and facilitating the
underwater removal of main cofferdams.
23.   All of these measures proved to be practicable and effective in recovering from
schedule delays. The main cofferdams were breached on October 25, 1991 and the
upstream end of the diversion channel was closed on November 20, 1991, thus completing
the transition from stage II to stage III of the diversion scheme, one and a half months
behind schedule.



7
24.   Concrete placement entered into the peak production period from October 1990.
The monthly production from November 1990 to June 1991 (eight months) exceeded
100,00Om3 in every month and the maximum monthly production in December was
123,00Om3.
25.   After diversion transition, flood protection measures were all completed as
scheduled. The seven intake gates were set into place on March 20, 1992, which
successfully protected against an early wet season flood of 13,600 m3 on March 27, 1992
(100 year return period for March). However, on July 7, 1992, the project was subjected
to an extraordinary flood, with a 50 year return period on an annual basis, which caused
the overtopping of the uncompleted spillway and upstream and downstream cofferdams of
the navigation facility. For the intake, spillway and powerhouse the overtopping resulted
in schedule delays of about one month. In the navigation facility, since the downstream
embankment cofferdam was washed out and construction equipment in the pit was
damaged, delays of over six months resulted.
26.   In order to accommodate the delay in spillway construction which carried over to
tainter gate erection, it was decided to provide two more spillway maintenance gates,
bringing the total number to four. These were installed in four spillway bays, initially
retaining the reservoir and enabling the tainter gate installation in these four bays to
proceed into the reservoir filling period. By February 1993, the project situation met the
requirements for plugging the 10 diversion conduits and starting reservoir impoundment
by the end of March. The first three diversion conduits were plugged with cast-in-place
concrete in December 1992, six more in March 1993, and the last gate was set on April 2,
1993, as dictated by hydrologic conditions and downstream water supply requirements.
The successful reservoir impoundment meant that the last milestone of dam construction
was realized on schedule.
Electrical and Mechanical Equipment
Supply of the Generating Unit Equipment
27.   After ICB, the contract for the first two generating units was awarded to a
foreign/Chinese joint venture. This contract was not financed by the Bank. The contract
for the remaining five units was awarded to the Chinese partner of the joint venture.
Subsequently, the Bank indicated no objection to an extension of the ICB contract, to
cover specialized components (governors and exciters) for all seven units.
28.   Contracts for all seven generating units were signed in August 1988. However,
payments for the equipment were scheduled to extend beyond the closing date of the loan,
and while the Bank had agreed to consider the second loan this had not even been
appraised, much less approved. This led to unanticipated difficulties in issuing the letter of
credit (LC) and time consuming discussions and negotiations to find a way around the
problem. Eventually, a guarantee was obtained from the Bank of China to cover the outer
years, and the LC was eventually issued at the end of 1989, a delay of almost one year
compared to the contract stipulations. The manufacturing schedule and equipment



8
delivery schedule were correspondingly affected. The following table shows the
contractual vs. actual equipment delivery for the first six units. Because of excessive
commitments of the local manufacturer, and the fact that Shuikou turbines are among the
largest Kaplan turbines in operation today requiring complex manufacturing technology,
the delivery intervals between units were longer than four months as established in the
contract. These factors resulted in the commissioning dates of the various units being
delayed by varying extents in comparison with scheduled dates.
Equipment Delivery - Units 1 to 6
Unit 1              Unit 2               Unit 3              Unit 4              Unit 5              Unit 6
Item      Contact    Actual    Contract   Actual   Contract   Actual   Contract  Actual   Contract   Actual   Contract   Actual
Date      Date       Date      Date      Date      Date      Date      Date       Date     Date      Date       Date
Embedded       05/91     01/92      08/91     06/92     05/93     06/93     07/93     08/93      11/93    03/94      05/94     08/94
parts
Distributor    08/91     05/92      12/91     09/92      10/93    05/94     01/94     09194     06/94      04/95     10/94     06/95
systetm
Runner         05/91      12/91     12/91     12/91     10/93     02/94     01/94     07/94      05i94    05/95      09/94     08/95
assemblies
Stator         12/91     06/92      03/92     02/93     08/93     01/94      11/93    04/94      03/94     10/94     07/94     02/95
assemblies
Rotor          03/92      11/92     06/92     06/93      10/93    03/94     02/94     07/94      04/94    02/95     08/94      08/95
assenblies
Main Shaft     12/91      11/92     06/92     05/93      12/93    04/94     02/94     07/94      06/94    05/95      10/94     08/95
Thnusthead     09/92     01/93      09/92     07/93      10/93    04/94     02/94     07/94     06/94      05/95     10/94     08/95
and support
Thrust         09/92     09/92      09/92     09/92      12/93    05/94     03(94     09/94      06/94    06/95      10/94     09/95
bearings
Upper          12/91      12/92     03/92     02/93      10/93     12/93    02/94     09/94     06/94     06/95      10/94     06/95
Notes:  1.  The equipment delivery of units 1 and 2 refer to the date stipulated in the international
contract.
2.  The equipment delivery of units 3-6 refer to the date stipulated in the supplementary
agreement of Units 3-7.
Mechanical and Electrical Installation
29.      The electrical and mechanical installation contract was signed in January 1991, and
the contractor commenced mobilization on site in March 1991. The execution bay and
bridge crane were handed over to him in December 1991 and the Unit I area was handed
over in February 1992. According to the provisions of the contract, the installation
duration for each unit was 18 months counted from the installation of stay ring to
completion of 72-hour trial operation with units commissioned at four intervals. With



9
contributions from other concerned parties, the installation contractor was able to reduce
the effect of delayed equipment deliveries and expedite the installation work to catch up
some of the time lost through delayed deliveries. The installation time and commissioning
date of units 1 through 6 are shown in the following table, which shows that even for the
first unit the erection period was three months less than the contract period, with
progressive reduction in the erection period for subsequent units, reducing to 10.5
months--or 7.5 months less than the contract period--for the sixth unit. The performance
of the contractor in achieving these dates must be rated as outstanding.
Installation Progress for Shuikou Units 1 to 6
Item        Unit 1      Unit 2     Unit 3      Unit 4       Unit 5       Unit 6
Installation      15         13.5       12.5         11           12           10.5
duration
(month)
Including:        107         90         87          80           98           70
second stage                                                 (incl. holiday)
conc placing
time (day)
Operation date   08/01/93    02/08/94    09/02/94    12/28/94   11/06/95     12/28/95
Operation date   05/31/93    09/30/93    01/31/94    05/31/94  09/30/94      01/31/95
established in
SAR
Actual vs.         2          4           7          7            13            11
Target (month
delayed)
Navigation Facilities
30.   Navigation facilities included in the scope of the first project were a three flight
shiplock to accommodate two 500 ton ships and a raft lift to accommodate a 10.5m x 64m
x I m timber and bamboo raft. The transportation capacity of the shiplock was estimated
at 3.2 million tons per year, while that of the raftlift was 1.6 million m3 per year. By the
time of the appraisal of the second loan in mid- 1991, FPEPB had decided to upgrade these
facilities to convert the raft lift to a vertical shiplift which could also accommodate two
500 ton ships at the same time.
31.    The shiplock is located inside the temporary diversion channel, and therefore a
large portion of its excavation was finished before the operation of the diversion channel in
1989. The second stage excavation for the shiplock and shiplift started after the closure of
the diversion channel on November 20, 1991. In December 1991 concrete placement
commenced and the cumulative placement of the shiplock and head block of the shiplift
reached 245,000m3 by June 1992 when construction was halted by the extraordinary 50



10
year flood on July 7, 1992 which delayed construction about six months. In order not to
delay reservoir filling, SHPC extended the originally planned duration of the transshipment
operation, that transported cargo around the dam during the period after closure of the
diversion facilities until commissioning of the shiplock. After reservoir impoundment
commenced, construction of the shiplock was expedited, but was not able to catch up to
the original schedule. Civil works construction, metal structure, gates and hydraulic hoist
installation were completed by April 1994 and mechanical equipment testing and electrical
equipment installation were completed in September 1994 after which, water filling and
trial operation were commenced. In October, when water filling had reached high levels,
some cracking was observed in bottom slabs and walls of the lock chambers, and
commissioning and trial operations were suspended. A meeting of a panel of eight local
experts invited by the Ministry of Electric Power was held to review the design and
construction of the shiplock in February 1995. Comprehensive treatment measures
including crack grouting, leakage drainage systems and strengthening of walls and bottom
slabs of two of the chambers by using prestressed cables were recommended. In May
1995, the remedial works were started and they were completed in September 1995. In
October, the testing of equipment and hydraulic facilities was completed, followed by
watering up the lock. Internal trial navigational operation was carried out in December,
and on February 10, 1996 public trial operation started with traffic twice a day. Based on
initial operating experience, it was decided to replace domestic hydraulic equipment and
electric control elements with imported equipment to ensure reliable and stable operation
of the shiplock in the long-term. This will be carried out in the upcoming dry season.
Resettlement
32.   The main factor that affected resettlement implementation was the emphasis on
physical relocation and the subsequent development of household and village production
systems. Production systems such as orchards, forestry and fish cages require a lead time
of a number of years before yielding revenue. The gap between the loss of income and
produce from reservoir lands and the start of cashflow from new systems is always present
in resettlement, but in the case of Shuikou it was minimized, as old lands could still be
farmed for several years after relocation but prior to inundation. On the whole,
implementation was carried out successfully.
33.   Early on in project supervision, the Bank initiated an Independent Evaluation of
Resettlement. This evaluation by ECIDI took place over a five year period (1992 to
1996) and involved samples of 524 households and 35 villages. The annual reports of the
evaluation proved particularly valuable in providing FPEPB, SRRO and the Bank with
regular feedback as to achievements and outstanding problems. The Independent
Evaluation is the first of its kind in China and provides a thorough case study.
34.   Overall, physical resettlement works have been carried out in a timely and
satisfactory manner. The economic re-establishment of households has also been generally
handled in a timely and satisfactory manner, resulting in income levels having, on average,
regained previous levels. However, the progress is not evenly distributed among all new
villages, with some having done quite well and some having done poorly. SRRO has been



II
urged to identify those villages still experiencing difficulties and to provide further
assistance.
Environment
35.   An environmental management plan prepared for the appraisal of the second loan
grouped activities into four categories: environmental protection, environmental
monitoring, special studies and instrumentation, equipment and training.
36.   The three major items under environmental protection were relocation of water
supply intakes, reconstruction of navigation facilities, and afforestation of construction site
areas. Water supply intakes needed to be relocated to avoid possible fouling from
downstream waste water outfalls after reservoir filling. This was accomplished well
before reservoir filling. Existing navigation facilities were also reconstructed and
considerably upgraded, in line with the anticipated use of the reservoir for navigation. The
new works covered 26 wharves of various sizes, three navigation administration buildings,
navigation channel reconstruction to accommodate 2 x 500 ton barge fleet, re-
establishment of navigation markers to Grade I of the National Standards on Inland
Navigation. Afforestation of the areas around the construction site is well underway and
is expected to be completed by the end of 1996.
37.   Environmental monitoring focused on three areas: water quality monitoring
particularly in the areas of pollution inflows near Nanping City, hydrological monitoring in
the catchment and sediment deposition in the reservoir. Water quality monitoring to date
has indicated no deterioration in river water quality through Nanping City. Because of the
small volume of the reservoir in relation to average flow, velocities through the reservoir
are relatively high even in the dry season. This results in efficient flushing and dilution of
pollution loads. Nanping City's program to improve effluent quality is continuing. The
originally envisaged hydrological monitoring has been expanded to include a
comprehensive flood warning system, with real time transmission of readings from
precipitation and streamflow gauges to the Shuikou power station, where projected flood
hydrographs are automatically computed. The first survey of sediment deposition in the
reservoir since its filling was carried out in 1995. This indicated no significant deposition
to date. The next survey will be carried out in 2000.
3 8.   The special study consisted of the development of a mathematical model to enable
a study of the assimilation capacity of the stretch of the river bordering Nanping City after
reservoir filling. This study was completed before reservoir filling, and predicted adequate
capacity to assimilate the biological load from Nanping effluents, which has been bome
out by monitoring results reported above. A small unit consisting of two to three people
has been established in the Shuikou Power Plant to be responsible for environmental and
hydrological monitoring and the flood prediction system. These staff have received
specialized training in each aspect.



12
Procurement
39.   In all, there were eleven prior review contracts financed under the loan, one for
civil works, six for goods and materials and four for consulting services. The major value
was concentrated in the civil works contact and the two contracts for generating units, one
mechanical and one electrical which were both awarded to a single joint venture. In
general, procurement proceeded smoothly and there were no significant delays in
evaluation and award of contracts. For the main civil works contract, with a value of
about US$150 million equivalent, the following schedule was achieved:
Bid opening                            July 31, 1986
Bid evaluation report submittal         October 7, 1986
Approval by the owner                  October 14, 1986
Approval by the government             October 30, 1986
Approval by the Bank                   November 12, 1986
Issuing invitation letter for bid award  November 15, 1986
Signing contract                       December 15, 1986
40.   With regard to the generating units, turbine documents were issued four months
ahead of the generator documents. This was at the Bank's insistence, so that the
evaluation report for the turbines would have been submitted to the Bank prior to the
receipt of bids for the generator, thus avoiding any temptation to deviate from ICB
procedures in evaluating the turbine bid. The time from receipt of generator bids to
signing of contract was 5.5 months which is also considered good for this type of
equipment.
41.   Procurement activities which had a substantial effect on implementation were the
prequalification of main contractors in the case of civil works, and qualification criteria for
suppliers in the case of the generating unit contract.
42.   For the civil works, 32 applications for prequalification were received involving
seven individual foreign contractors, seven foreign joint ventures and 18 foreign-local joint
ventures with a total of 80 contractors seeking participation.
43.   Candidates were required to demonstrate the adequacy of their experience in
similar works, qualified personnel, available and suitable equipment and adequate working
capital. Specific qualification criteria were established for experience in similar works.
Domestic price preference was allowed for qualified domestic contractors and joint
ventures with majority Chinese ownership. Thirteen of these applicants were eventually
recommended by the Chinese side, and the Bank provided no objection to this short-list.
44.   According to the standards applying at the time, the prequalification evaluation
criteria were quite stringent and might have been expected to result in a well qualified
shortlist for the civil works contract. However, it is evident in retrospect that there was at
least one significant shortcoming in the process, in that prequalification criteria were
related to the joint venture as a whole, with no requirement that each partner should be
qualified to fulfill his responsibilities under the joint venture agreement. This was



13
important since the domestic price preference provision encouraged Chinese participation
above 50 percent. An analysis of the capability of Chinese partners to contribute 50
percent of inputs (principally finance) to the joint venture would probably have revealed
their inadequacy in this area, which was later revealed by cash flow problems during
implementation.
45.   With regard to the qualification criteria for generating unit manufacturers, there
were also significant shortcomings by today's standards, in that joint venture partners
were not required to be jointly and severally liable. The accepted bid was from a joint
venture of four parties, a Chinese trading company and manufacturer and a foreign trading
company and manufacturer. The foreign partners were responsible for imported
components and the Chinese parties for local components. There was no requirement for
the foreign parties, who fully met the qualification criteria, to assume responsibility for the
performance of the local partners who did not fully meet the prequalification criteria. The
joint and several liability requirement was a general requirement for civil works joint
ventures at the time, but was not common for mechanical and electrical supply contracts.
In the event, this did not affect quality, but may have affected delivery time for local
components.
46.   The above shortcomings have been recognized and taken into account in
subsequent operations, particularly Ertan and Xiaolangdi projects. In addition, the Bank
standard prequalification documents which apply to both civil works and major equipment
installations now require joint and several liability and specification of individual
qualification criteria for partners.
Consulting Services
47.   Four main contracts were awarded for foreign consulting services, one relating to
design and construction supervision of the Shuikou Dam and power plant and three
relating to studies to upgrade FPEPB institutional capability. Contracts with individual
consultants were also signed, mainly in relation to the SBC.
48.   For the design and construction supervision services, the SAR estimate allowed for
700 man months of foreign personnel. However, the contract provided for assessment of
actual requirements on an annual basis, and actual inputs up until the end of 1995, were
about 220 man months. The Bank closely monitored implementation to ensure that
services specified were adequate, and on the few occasions where additional input was
recommended, the recommendations were accepted by FPEPB. Since the quantity and
nature of services were specified by FPEPB in consultation with the recipients of the
assistance, ECIDI and SHPC, they enjoyed a high degree of "ownership" by them. With
respect to the designer, ECIDI, support was provided in the following areas:
(a)    preparation of drawings and specifications for civil works to international
standards;



14
(b)   more than 30 special consulting reports relating to design optimization, and
specialized components;
(c)   ICB bid documents and technical specifications for internationally procured
equipment;
(d)   evaluation of ICB bids;
(e)   establishment of a CAD software package, and establishing a CACMA data
base compatible with China's standard specifications; and
(f)   planning and management of the process of design and drawing production
to ensure timely delivery of drawings.
49.   With respect to the Engineer, SHPC, assistance was provided in the areas of
(a)   Project Administration: Procedures for administering design changes,
payments and claims,
(b)   Contract/Claims Management: Performance review, avoidance of
potential claims, variation orders, review and settlement of claims;
(c)   Construction Management: Methods and procedure review, quality
control; and
(d)   Schedule Control: Schedule review, and coordination, work simplification
and design change recommendations.
Technologies transferred to ECIDI and SHPC were highly valued by them, and this has
led to their replication in other projects under their control.
50.   The Special Board of Consultants met on seven occasions between November,
1985 and February, 1992. Although this represents about once a year on average, the
interval between meetings varied between five and twenty months, coordinated with key
construction activities and identified problems. Beyond a core group, the composition of
the Board was also varied with time to involve expertise relevant to the implementation
plan. Both of these approaches have proven to be very effective.
51.   The two studies envisaged in the SAR were subsequently divided into three,
generally covering the same scope. All three studies were successfully carried out, all
yielded results which have been carried forward into FPEPB operations and subsequent
investments (see Table 7).
Project Costs
52.   The estimated cost of the project at appraisal (excluding interest during
construction) was $398.40 million in foreign costs and Yl,692. 10 million in local costs,



15
equivalent to a total of $855.80 million (Y3,166.4 million). The final cost was $179.06
million in foreign costs and Y4,152.99 million in local costs, equivalent to a total of
$914.86 million (Y5,333.40 million) (see Tables 8a-1 and 8a-2 for details). Considering
overall costs (foreign plus local), there is a cost overrun of about 7 percent when
expressed in US dollars and 151 percent when expressed in local currency. The variation
in cost overrun is due to the higher-than-expected-inflation in China and the devaluation
of the local currency from an exchange rate of Y3.70 to the dollar at the time of appraisal
to Y8.33 to the $1 at the end of 1995. However, it should be noted that there are two
significant changes of scope between the appraisal and final cost estimates. Firstly, the
500 kV transmission line included in the original estimate was not constructed and
therefore does not appear in final costs. Secondly, the appraisal estimates excluded
railway relocation costs, since they were considered to be economically justified in their
own right, whereas FPEPB have included them in the final costs. If these two factors are
excluded from both estimates, overruns are reduced to 0.5 percent when expressed in
foreign currency and 72 percent when expressed in local currency. While the comparison
of costs expressed in US dollars gives a reasonable estimate of cost overruns excluding
the effects of inflation and devaluation, a more accurate estimate can be obtained by de-
escalating both foreign and local costs to the appraisal date, using respective foreign and
local inflation rates, combining the two at the appraisal exchange rate, and comparing the
resultant value with the appraisal estimate (including physical contingencies). This
analysis indicates a cost overrun, excluding the effects of escalation and devaluation, and
adjusting for scope change of about 18 percent. This represents relatively good agreement
between estimated and final costs, considering the large local inflation during the period,
which may be imperfectly estimated by the Consumer Price Index at the national level.
Carrying out a similar analysis with major components, indicates that the cost overrun is
almost entirely explained by resettlement costs, which overran by 78 percent, excluding
the effects of inflation.
Economic Performance
53.   Economic Performance . For the appraisal, generation planning studies were
carried out to demonstrate that Shuikou was part of the least-cost expansion plan for the
East China Grid. This was independently verified by comparing Shuikou with a
combination of coal-fired power plants and a pumped storage plant in Jiangsu Province.
The latter analysis indicated an equalizing discount rate of 14.9 percent. A similar analysis
was carried out ex-ante using coal-fired thermal power plants as the alternative, which is
appropriate to the Fujian grid. This yielded an equalizing discount rate of 46.7 percent.
The long-run average incremental cost (LRAIC) of Shuikou is calculated at 22.10
fen/kWh (1995 prices, 12 percent discount rate), in comparison with 50.8 fen/kWh for the
coal alternative, strongly demonstrating that even with modest cost overruns and
completion delays, Shuikou is very economical in comparison to thermal alternatives.
54.   At appraisal, the IERR was calculated by valuing the output of Shuikou at the cost
of providing peaking energy using the next best project. This yielded an IERR of 15
percent, which is effectively the equalizing discount rate in the analysis described in para



16
55. As noted in para 55, this type of analysis, which uses the alternative costs as a
"benefit", carried out ex-ante, yields an IERR of 46.7 percent.
55.   The appraisal also used an alternative approach valuing Shuikou energy at FPEPB
projected 1995 tariff level, deflated to 1985. This approach, which was considered to
significantly underestimate the value of Shuikou as a supplier of peaking energy, yielded
an IERR of 8.0 percent. This type of analysis was repeated ex-ante using the average
price of energy sold to the grid from all power plants in 1995, plus power development
surcharges applied at provincial and local levels, as a minimum proxy of "willingness-to-
pay". This yields an IERR of 15.1 percent. However, overall system tariff considerably
underestimates "willingness-to-pay". Due to tariff policy changes since the original
appraisal, the price of energy from "new power plants" is passed through to the consumer,
and all incremental consumption since 1983 is charged at a '-new price". If the average
new price is used as a proxy for willingness to pay, then IERR increases to 21.5 percent.
Even this value underestimates the value of Shuikou energy because it takes no account of
the higher value of peaking energy to the system. Nevertheless, it is taken as a minimum
proxy for "willingness-to-pay".
FPEPB Financial Performance
56.   Comparative financial statements containing the projected and actual amount for
the period 1986 to 1995 are summarized in Annex 1'. FPEPB fixed assets in 1994
amounted to Y9,103 million, higher than the estimate by Y3,3 58 million, mainly due to the
Shuikou project cost overrun and a 1993 asset revaluation applying to all power
companies in China which added Yl,200 million. To meet the higher capital needs,
FPEPB incurred more borrowings, so its outstanding loans at end of 1994 reached Y8,705
million. Despite the additional borrowings, FPEPB maintained a balanced financial
structure and kept the debt/equity ratio below 75/25.
57.   Over the ten years, from 1986 to 1995, energy sales have increased by a factor of
3.5 percent, an average increase of 15 percent per annum, reflecting the fast economic
growth in Fujian Province. The average tariff has been adjusted from 7.6 fen/kWh in 1986
to 30.3 fen/kWh in 1995--an increase in constant terms of 16.6 percent per annum--and in
real terms of 5.8 percent per annum. Actual operating revenues in 1995 amounted to
Y5.33 billion, about fourteen times of that in 1986 and 65 percent higher than projected at
appraisal. Along with the increase in revenues, operating costs also rose rapidly, largely
contributed by much higher than expected power purchase cost since 1989. This results
from changes in the power sector structure, whereby most new plants are constructed by
semi-independent joint investment partnerships which sell power to the FPEPB grid.
FPEPB role has thus largely changed to that of a purchasing and transmission agency. In
1994, FPEPB purchased 8, 920 kWh at an average cost of about 19 fen/kWh, compared
with original projections of 1,550 kWh and 5 fen/kWh, respectively. Apart from power
1995 figures are based on unaudited financial statements.



17
purchase costs, the value added tax introduced in 1994 had a substantial effect on total
operating cost. As a result, the operating ratio has been as high as 90 percent since 1989.
58.   Over the course of project implementation, the debt service ratio has been
satisfactorily kept at higher than 1.3 as covenanted under the first loan. In 1995, this
increased to 1.5, thus complying with the more stringent covenant of the second loan.
Regarding the self-financing ratio, FPEPB met the break-even covenant of the first loan in
all years. The self-financing covenant of the second loan was complied with in all years
except 1994 when the ratio achieved was 21.2 percent in comparison with the covenanted
25 percent. This can be attributed to several factors: (a) a change in the taxation system
in 1994 which resulted in much higher transfers to the government, concurrently with a
government imposed tariff freeze for macroeconomic purposes; and (b) peak expenditure
on Shuikou concurrently with delayed commissioning of some generators due to casting
defects. A review of the unaudited financial reports for 1995 indicate that all covenants
were met, with the self-financing ratio rising to 31.8 percent, comfortably in excess of the
covenanted value of 25 percent. Overall therefore, it can be concluded that FPEPB
financial performance has been satisfactory.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
59.   All elements are present to ensure sustainability of the project. Technically, the
finished hydroelectric development is of good quality and the units have operated at a high
availability over the initial operating period of up to three years. Efficient and economic
operation is expected based on FPEPB past record of hydroelectric plant operation and
the arrangements for the current project, as set out in the Operational Plan. Financially,
the pricing arrangements for the plant output will ensure satisfactory financial and
economic returns. On the institutional side, the upgrading of local capabilities in design
and management of hydroelectric construction has already been carried over to future
operations. ECIDI has provided consulting services to local entities in preparing projects
for international bidding. These include at least three Bank financed projects. SHPC will
carry over its construction management capabilities to the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) financed Mienhuatan project. The limited institution development objectives in
relation to FPEPB itself have been built on under the Second Shuikou Hydroelectric
Project, and further developed under the ADB Mienhuatian Project.
60.   The resettlement and rehabilitation, once it has fully achieved its objective, will be
sustainable in terms of the presence of an economic base that will provide households with
a flow of annual revenues. Income targets have generally been met on an average basis
although there is still a seven percent poverty level among resettled households. The
replacement of rice agriculture with orchards has the further potential to significantly
improve standards of living on an ongoing basis.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
61.   The inclusion of the Shuikou project in the Bank lending program dates from
1983, but expenditures were minimal until FY86. The first significant mission was the



18
preappraisal in November/December 1985. This was quickly followed by an appraisal in
March 1986, with the timing of subsequent phases dictated by the desire to receive civil
works bids before negotiations. Despite the substantial number of issues to be dealt with
during 1986, including the civil works bidding, the preparation, processing and advance
procurement were carried out efficiently and economically. The Bank showed particular
flexibility in varying its standard procedures to accommodate the Borrower's request for a
loan for the first four years of implementation, and agreeing to consider a second loan at a
later date. Judged by today's standards, there could be criticism of the Bank's no
objection to qualification criteria for civil works contractors and equipment suppliers, but
as discussed in paras. 43 and 44 this was then considered best practice. Bank appraisal of
project related resettlement concentrated on re-establishment of income rather than only
on relocation. During implementation emerging construction delays were quickly matched
by increased inputs from Bank staff and the attention of Bank management. The solutions
which emerged for dealing with the delays were appropriate and the flexibility of the Bank
in amending the Loan Agreement to provide funds in needed areas was a large contributor
to the solutions. At a later stage, when the project continued to be behind schedule,
advice from Bank technical staff precipitated scheduling studies which were largely
responsible for the achievement of the second stage diversion key data and avoiding a one
year delay.
62.   Based on the above, Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory from
identification through supervision.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
63.   FPEPB, as the implementing agency, was strongly supported by ECIDI, the
designer, and SHPC, the construction manager. The performance of all organizations is
rated as highly satisfactory.
64.   FPEPB successfully implemented the project with only modest cost and time
overruns. It overcame problems as they arose, was open to new technologies and
construction management techniques, and did not stint when it came to employing the best
available foreign expertise to support the local implementation entities. It was also
responsible and far sighted in demonstrating a strong commitment to successful
resettlement, including strong support to necessary budget increases on two occasions.
65.   ECIDI proved itself to be a world class design organization, exhibited professional
maturity in identifying areas where it could benefit from overseas experience, and took
advantage of the project to upgrade its capabilities in these areas. Its expertise and
flexibility in carrying out design changes to enable construction to be expedited is
especially commendable. They also performed well in their non-traditional role as
independent evaluators of resettlement, consistently demonstrating their independence and
objectivity over the course of the evaluation.



19
66.   SHPC had perhaps the biggest challenge, being a new organization, fulfilling a
non-traditional function in Chinese implementation of large projects. However, it rose to
the challenge, gaining confidence and authority as implementation progressed. It took on
the considerable responsibi!ities of managing the construction, supervising and
coordinating the activities of twenty six contractors, including a detailed coordination of
deliveries for the generating unit contracts. It took advantage of the project and the
Bank's loan to fully acquaint itself with modem project management techniques and equip
itself with appropriate management software.
67.   The most impressive demonstration of the performance of the three implementing
organizations was in the recovery from initial delays, when all three organizations worked
closely together, exhibiting a high level of competence, flexibility and versatility in
working with the contractors and suppliers in overcoming the delays.
68.   Overall the SRRO has performed satisfactorily in terms of works completed and
jobs created. As the full rehabilitation is not yet completed, the SRRO should continue its
efforts, financed by the Reservoir Maintenance and Construction Funds. SRRO
monitoring and periodic reporting has been lacking, perhaps in the mistaken belief that the
ECIDI evaluation would take care of this.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTcoME
69.   The project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory. All of the development
objectives were achieved. The economic rate of return has increased in comparison with
appraisal estimates. Sustainability is highly likely, and both Borrower and Bank
performances are rated as highly satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
70.   The project commenced operation in August 1, 1993 with the commissioning of
the first generating unit. In 1995, with only four units in operation for most of the year,
due to favorable hydrology, the output of the power plant was 4,763 GWh, which is only
slightly below the design output in an average year with all units operating, i.e. 4,950
GWh. Total generation to date is 8,290 GWh which has generated revenue equal to
almost 50 percent of the construction cost of the powerhouse including interest during
construction. SHPP presented figures which indicate a mature forced outage rate of about
six hours per year per unit or 0.07 percent, which is remarkably low. Overall availability,
after forced and planned outages, is about 93 percent.
71.   Trial operation of the shiplock was commenced on December 26, 1995, and it was
put into public trial operation on February 10, 1996. Up until March 22, 1996, 538 boats
had passed through the lock in 92 passes. Total tonnage passed was 16,557 tons or 30.8
tons on average. Typically, the lock can pass 12 boats at one time. At present, no toll
charge is levied, but it is planned to introduce charges once shipping volumes have been
established. Based on initial operations, an annual volume of 120,000 tons, well below the
3.2 million ton estimated capacity of the facility, is projected but this is likely to increase



20
substantially once the availability and reliability of the lock is more widely known, and
boat sizes increase to the size that can now navigate the river and reservoir.
72.   The FPEPB Operation Plan summarizes the arrangements made for future
operations of the power plant in terms of organization and staffing of the operating unit,
training technical and financial staff, operating procedures, regular maintenance program,
power dispatch, methodology for efficient utilization of water, dam safety procedures, the
flood and environmental monitoring. With regard to resettlement, Y23 million of the
budget of Yl,057 million remains to be spent on production development. Thereafter, the
reservoir development fund will generate income based on energy production of about
Y20 million per year. This should sustain the workplan of the SRRO. With regard to
environmental operations, a small unit has been established in the Shuikou Power Plant to
be responsible for environmental and hydrological monitoring and operation and
maintenance of the flood warning system, ensuring the continuation of these activities.
73.   The Bank is continuing its involvement with FPEPB in connection with the Second
Shuikou Hydroelectric Project which is scheduled to close at the end of 1997.
Supervision of this project will be the vehicle for supervising the resettlement process up
until full restoration of income. The second project built on the first project's limited
objectives for institutional development of FPEPB by including a tariff reform action plan,
which concentrated on tariff restructuring including the unification of 'old' and 'new'
tariffs, such that each user in the same category pays the same price. The implementation
of this plan, which is ongoing, is putting FPEPB ahead of all other Chinese power
companies in this area. Beyond this, FPEPB has been selected by the Government as one
of the 100 State Owned Enterprises to be commercialized and corporatized on a pilot
basis, the only power company to be so included. The Bank cooperated with the ADB
during the preparation of the Mienhuatian Hydroelectric project, under which the
objectives of commercialization and corporatization of FPEPB will be pursued.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
74.   With respect to procurement, it is important that prequalification criteria with
respect to joint ventures ensure that each partner of the joint venture is qualified to carry
out its responsibilities under the contract. In addition to technical capabilities which are
the usual focus of qualifying criteria, financial capabilities (ability to finance the contract
and absorb losses if necessary) and capacity to carry out the work along with other
commitments, are also very important in the Chinese context. Financial capabilities are
particularly important with regard to civil contractors, and manufacturing capacity is
important for equipment suppliers. A comprehensive joint venture agreement detailing the
rights and responsibilities of each partner and management arrangements should be
required before contract signature. In the case of power generating units, where
components are being supplied from various sources, it is important that a fully qualified
manufacturer takes full responsibility for the overall supply contract.
75.   The two stage loan arrangement achieved its objectives in reducing the early
repayment burden before power plant commissioning and reducing commitment charges.



21
It was also appropriate in the context of the fast growing Fujian system, in that it allowed
reevaluation of project scope at mid-term. As a result of this, the transmission line to East
China was deleted, the navigation facilities were upgraded by the addition of a shiplift, a
grid control component was added based on the outcome of studies carried out in the first
stage, and the financial and institutional objectives were strengthened. However, two
disadvantages of this approach were: the lack of Bank commitment to the second phase,
creating difficulties in opening letters of credit for equipment, and the considerable
expenditure by both the Borrower and Bank in processing the second loan. It would be
worth considering the addition of a two tranche investment loan to the Bank's product
line. This could provide approval in principle to the second tranche, subject to satisfactory
performance, and additional provisions to be negotiated at mid-term. Documentation for
the second tranche could be simplified.
76.   Overall, Shuikou resettlement appears to have been carried out successfully. A
comprehensive evaluation of the resettlement process and the positive and negative
lessons to be learned from it is underway. Income restoration and evaluation activities are
ongoing and final outcome will be assessed at the time of the ICR for the second project
due in 1998. Meanwhile, a preliminary assessment of lessons to be learned is as follows:
(a)   The decentralization of resettlement planning and implementation to
counties and townships works well, but resettlement offices at the lower
levels need strong leadership, supervision and technical assistance from a
strong, central resettlement office. Preferably, this office should be directly
responsible to the implementing agency rather than to the province which is
not a signatory to the loan or project agreements. Covenanting the
resettlement plan through the loan agreement signed by the Chinese
Government is not particularly effective.
(b)   Comprehensive resettlement monitoring systems, as disaggregated as
possible, should be developed along with resettlement plans.
(c)   Resettlement planning should be well advanced at appraisal stage, to allow
more detailed cost estimates to be carried out. Cost estimates should
include the costs of facilities to reestablish income, for comparison with
compensation costs that finance these measures.
(d)   Implementation of resettlement should also be advanced as much as
possible, particularly land development for agricultural activities, to reduce
or even eliminate the time lag between reservoir filling and re-establishment
of income.



22
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT
Achievement of Objectives
Not
Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Applicable
Macroeconomics policies                                                           X
Sector policies                                       X
Financial objectives                    X
Institutional development               X
Physical objectives                     X
Poverty reduction                                                                 X
Gender concerns                                                                   X
Other social objectives                                                           X
Environmental objectives                X
Public sector management                X
Private sector development                                                        X
Project Sustainability
Likely                                Unlikely                              Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
-igbly Satisfactory     Satisfactory            Deficicnt
Identification                        X
Preparation assistance                X
Appraisal                             X
Supervision                           X
Borrower Performance
Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                           X
Implernentation                       X
Covenant compliance                   X
Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory      Highly Unsatisfactory
x



23
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan Title                           Purpose                Approval           Status
Ln. 2382-CHA           To construct a rockfill dam, a spillway, an  02/21/84   Loan was closed on
Lubuge Hydroelectric   underground powerhouse, to install 4            06/30/92.
Project                generating units of 150 MW eacl, 3
single circuits of 220 kV transmission
lines; to provide consultant sernices and a
training programn.
Ln. 2493-CHA           To construct a 500 kV transmission line    02/19/85   Loan was closed on
Second Power Project   from Xuzhou to Shanghai and 5                   06/30/92.
associated substations totaling 3,500
MVA in capacity, to install tele-control
and telecommunications equipment for
load dispatching, and to provide training
for 400 kV transmission lines and
substations.
Ln. 2706-CHA &         To construct a coal-fired thermal power    05/29/86 & First loan closed
Ln. 2955-CHA           project with two units of 600 MW and two  06/14/88   06/30/94. Second Ican
Beilungang Thermal     single circuit of 500 kV transmission           closed 06/30/95.
Power Projects I and II   lines, and to carry out a tariff study. a
study on ZPEPB reorganization and
management improvement and a study for
improvement of distribution networks for
the cities of Ningbo and Hangzhou.
Ln. 2707-CHA           To construct a 1 10 m high concrete  05/29/86   Loan was closed on
Yantan Hydroelectric   gravity dam, a spillway, a powerhouse,          06/30/94.
Project                and a shiplift; to install 4 generating units
of 275 MW each, 2 single circuits of 500
kV transmission lines and 3 associated
substations; and to cany out a training
program.
Ln. 2775-CHA &         To construct a 101 m high concrete   01/06/87   Closed 6/30/93. Cufrrent
Ln. 3515-CHA           gravity dam, a spillway, a powerhouse and       ICR
Shuikou Hydroelectric  a navigation lock; to install 7 generating
Projects I & II        units of 200 MW each; to carry out a
resettlement program in the reservoir.
To complete the ongoing Shuikou dam  09/01/92   12/31/96. Request
and hydroelectric power plan, upgrade the      received to extend to
control and data acquisition system of the     12/31/97.
Fujian grid, carry out an action plan for
tariff reform, and a training program for
planning and financial management.



24
Year of
Loan Title                            Purpose               Approval           Status
Ln. 3387-CHA &         To construct a 240 m high arch dam with   07/02/91  Implementation under
Ln. 3933-CHA           an underground powerhouse, to install 6    &    way. Closing dates
Ertan Hydroelectric    550-MW generating units and associated    08/22/95   12/31/96 & 12/31/2001.
Projects I & II        equipment; to carry out an environmental
management program, studies of power
pricing and reservoir operation, and a
training program.
Cr. 2305-CHA &         To construct a 56 m high gravity dam and   10/31/91  Implementation under
Ln. 3412-CHA           an underground powerhouse with 4 x 60           way. Closing date
Daguangba Multipurpose  MW generating units; to erect a 36 km          12/31/97.
Project                long double-circuit 220 kV transmission
line and to build canals to irrigate 12,700
ha of land.
Ln. 3433-CHA           To install 2 300-MW generating units and   01/14/92  Implementation under
Yanshi Thermal Power    5 220-kV transmission lines and                way. Closing date
Project                associated substations; to carry out a tariff   12/31/97.
study, a tariff action plan, and a training
program for upgrading the technical,
financial and management skills for
'PEPB staff.
Ln. 3462-CHA           To install 2 additional 600 MW        04/12/92  Implementation under
Zouxian Thermal Power   generating units; to construct 500 kV and      way. Closing date
Project                220 kV transmission lines and                   06/30/99.
substations; and to carry out an air quality
control study, a power tariff study, an
action plan for tariff adjustment, and a
training program for the technical,
financial, and management staff of
SPEPB.
Ln. 3606-CHA           To construct a pumped-storage hydro-  05/18/93  Implementation under
Tianhuangping          electric power plant with six 300 MW            way. Closing date
Hydroelectric Project  reversible pump-turbine units, together         12/31/2001.
with upper and lower reservoirs, a water
conveyance system, an underground
powerhouse; to erect 250 km long 500 kV
transmission lines; to carry out studies of
optimal power plant operation and its
output pricing; and to strengthen the
beneficiary's organization through
technical assistance and training.



25
Year of
Loan Title                           Purpose                Approval           Status
Ln. 3718-CHA           To construct a coal-fired thennal power  03/22/94  Implementation under
Yangzhou Thermal       plant with two 600 MW generating units;         way. Closing date
Pouer Project          to erect two 500 kV transmission lines (30      12/31/2000.
km long); to extend technical assistance
for the development and implementation
of improved accounting and financial
management information systems; and
undertake management development and
staff training.
Ln. 3848-CHA           To construct a new 500 kV transmission    02/28/95   Implementation
Sichuan Transmission   network consisting of 2,260 km of                commenced. Closing
Project                transmission lines and 5,250 MVA of              date 12/31/2001.
substations; provide technical assistance
for implementation of sector reform plan,
organizational improvements and
financial management systems.
Ln. 3846-CHA           To construct Beilungang Phase II power    02/28/95   Implementation
Zhejiang Power         plant consisting of three 600 MW coal-           commenced. Closing
Development Project    fired units; to construct 400 circuit-km of      date 12/31/2002.
500 kV transmission lines, 2,250 MVA of
500 kV substations and reinforce
distribution networks in Hangzhou and
Ningbo; to extend technical assistance to
assist the power company in
commercialization and corporatization,
establish computerized financial
management information system, improve
transmission and distribution planning
and upgrade environmental monitoring.
Ln. 3980-CHA           To construct two 600 MW coal-fired    2/27/96    Not yet signed. Closing
Henan (Qinbei) Thermal  thermal power units; to erect two 165 km        date 12/31/2002.
Power Project          500 kV transmission lines; to assist
HPEPB in engineering procurement and
construction supervision; and to extend
technical assistance to support the
implementation of the power sector
refonn action plan.



26
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle             Date planned       Date actual/latest estimate
Preappraisal                                                   11/85
Appraisal                             02/86                    02/86
Negotiations                          11/86                    11/86
Board presentation                                            01/06/87
Signing                                                      01/15/87
Effectiveness                                                 03/25/87
Project Completion                   12/31/96                12/31/97/
Loan closing                         12/31/91                 06/30/93
Subject to the Board's approval, project savings are expected to allow an expansion of the
project to include an additional transmission line. This would necessitate prolonging the
project period by 12 months.
TABLE 4: LoAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90   FY91   FY92  FY93
Appraisal estimate      4.0    28.0      56.0     92.0   140.0
Actual                  3.0    16.6    56.5       77.4    90.1   111.0  140.0
Actual as % of         75.0    59.2    100.9      84.2    64.4
estimate
Date of final
disbursement:
June 2, 1993.
Note: Disbursement schedule was slower than anticipated at appraisal because of two factors.
Firstly, in relation to the civil works contract, the Borrower elected to use the Bank
loan for the direct foreign exchange costs only rather than 70 percent of total costs as
provided in the Loan Agreement. Secondly, the 500 kV transmission line to Hangzhou
was deleted from the project scope. See para. 3.



27
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECr ILEMENTATION
(Refer to Figure 1)



28
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
(Not Applicable)



29
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined at
Study         appraisalredefined            Status                 Impact of study
Study on          To study the energy   Contract signed January  Rule curves were derived for
Coordnated       interchange between    1990.                    operation of Shuikou at Year
Opation of        subsystems, reservoir                          2000 load level.
Hydroelectric     operations and output    Final report Decnber 1994
Plants and Rdated  capacities under                              Use of the software has
System            coordinated operation.                         enabled an increase in the
Imrovemnents                                                     utilization of hydro energy by
an estimated four percent per
year.
Since 1994, the FPEPB
dispatch center has used the
transferred software to do
their annual planning.
Use of the derived rule curve
made a major contribution to
the very high generation of
Shuikou in.1995.
Studies demonstrated the high
predicted spill from Shuikou
in a wet year, leading to a
commencement of work on
the Jiemian hydropower plant
which is capable of providing
substantial energy storage to
the system.



30
Purpose as defined at
Study         appraisal/redefined           Status                Impact of study
Study on Power    To study the effects of    This study was divided  Study B: Static security
System Controls   introducing Shuikou   into two parts: Study B to   calculations indicated the
and Load          Hydroelectric Plant on    research the regulation  need for network
Dispatching      the Fujian-East China    function and emergency    strengthening between
Systems           interconnected system  automatic control of the  Yongan and Zhangping power
and the effect of the  grid after the introduction   plants. Optimal reactive
system on the technical   of Shuikou. Study C  power calculations, suggested
and economic          consisted of a feasibility    a capacitor at Nanjiao
characteistics of the  study for upgrading the  substation which was
Shuikru Plant         Fujian grid dispatching  accepted. Automatic control
system, leading to a     analyses assisted in the
recommended plan for an   specification and location of
Energy Management        automatic security devices.
System appropriate to the   The transferred software is
Fujian grid. The contract   used by FPEPB technical staff
for Study B was signed in   on a routine basis for system
May 1989. The final      planning.
report was submitted in
November 1991. The       Study C:
contract for Study C was
signed in November, 1989.  The feasibility study derived a
The final feasibility report  plan and specifications for an
was submitted in January,   EMS system for the Fujian
1992.                    grid, which is being procured
and installed under the
Second Shuikou Hydroelectric
Project (Ln 3515-CHA).



31
TABLE 8A-1: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate ($ M)         ActuaL/latest ($ M)
Item                               Local    Foreign   Total      Local    Foreign    Total
Preparatory works                  19.9       2.9      22.8     271.3       1.8    273.1
Resettlement compensation         100.5       0.0     100.5     198.0       0.0     198.0
Civil works                        59.7     139.4     199.1     108.9     116.0     224.9
Metal works                         9.8       3.8      13.6      16.3      15.0      31.3
Electrical andmechanical equip.    71.8      80.9     152.7      93.3      37.1     130.4
Transmission lines                 30.4      25.0      55.4       0.0       0.0       0.0
Engineering and construction        7.8      10.9      18.7      14.6       0.9      15.5
supervision
Administration                     10.5       0.0      10.5      20.0       0.0      20.0
Technical Assistance and training   0.5       1.0       1.5       8.1       8.2      16.3
TotalBaseCost                  310.8     264.0     574.8     730.5      179.0    909.5
Contingencies
Physical                         27.7      23.1      50.8        1.7      0.0        1.7
Price                           118.8     111.4    230.2        3.6       0.0        3.6
Total Project Cost             457.4     398.4     855.8     735.8      179.0     914.8
Interestduringconstruction         83.2     148.8    232.0      240.0      77.2     317.2
Total Financin Reuired         540.5     547.2    1087.8    975.8      256.2    1232.0



32
TABLE 8A-2: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate (Y M)          Actualllatest (Y M)
Iten                               Lcl    Foreign   Total         Local    Foreign    Total
Preparatory orks                   73.5      10.9      84.4     1307.3      14.2    1321.5
Resettlement compensation         371.7       0.0     371.7     1006.6       0.0    1006.6
Civil works                       220.9     515.8     736.7      715.3     748.3    1463.6
Metal works                        36.3      14.0      50.3      109.7      97.2     206.9
Electrical and men anical works   265.8     299.4     565.2      754.6     271.4    1006.1
Transmission lines                112.3      92.5     204.8        0.0       0.0       0.0
Engineering and consrction         28.8      40.4      69.2       86.7       7.7      94.4
supervision
Adminisraion                       38.8       0.0      38.8      108.2       0.0     108.2
Studiesandtraining                  1.9       3.7       5.6       40.5      41.5      82.0
Total Base Cost                1692.1    1474.3    3166.4    4128.9    1180.4    5289.3
Corningencies
Physical                         102.6      85.5     188.1      14.4       0.0       14.4
Price                            439.5     412.1     851.6      29.7       0.0       29.7
TotalPIioctCost                1692.1    1474.3    3166.4    4153.0    1180.4    5333.4
Interest during constwtion
IBRD loan                          0.0     269.1     269.1       0.0     523.7      523.7
Local loans                      307.9     281.5     589.4    1822.0        0.0    1822.0
Total FinancinReauired         2000.0    2024.9   4024.9    5975.0    1704.1    7679.1
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate ($ M)           Actualatest ($ M)
Item                             Local    Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign    Total
IBRD                                        140.0     140.0                 179.1*    179.1
Local bank                       540.5      147.3     687.8       975.8      77.2    1052.0
Foreign Exchange loans to be                260.0     260.0
Tota                           540.5     547.3    1087.8        975.8    256.3    1232.1
* Includes $39.1 million from Loan 3515-CHA.



TABLE 9: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF POWER PLANT
YEAR                                                     1985     1986      1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
SHUIKOU
POWER ABSORPTION BY GRID (MW)                                                                                                           200       600       800
ENERGY ABSORPTION BY GRID (GWh)                            0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0       564     2,963     4,773
ECONOMIC CAPITAL COST (million Y, 1995 CONSTANT) /a    39.01    134.94   324.36    483.74    493.48    650.69   1,032.44    665.89    729.87    969.36    413.77
OPERATING COST (milion Y)                                                                                                             11.43     34.29     45.71
TOTAL COST (million Y)                                  39.01    134.94   324.36    483.74    493.48    650.69   1,032.44    665.89    741.30   1,003.64    459.49
AIC OF Shuikou (Yuan/kWh)                              0.2210
COAL ALTERNATIVE
EQUIVALENT COAL CAPACITY (MW)                                                                                                        235.72    707.15    942.87
EQUIVALENTCOALENERGY(GWh)                                  0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0    598.33  3,140.45   5,059.04
INSTALLATION SCHEDULE (MW)                                                                                                              300       600       300
CUMULATIVE CAPACITY (MW)                                                                                                                300       900       1200
COAL UNIT 1                                                                                  192.81    578.43    771.24    385.62
COAL UNIT 2                                                                                            192.81    578.43    771.24    385.62
COAL UNIT 3                                                                                            192.81    578.43    771.24    385.62
COAL UNIT 4                                                                                                      192.81    578.43    771.24    385.62
COAL UNIT 5                                                                                                                192.81    578.43    771.24    385.62
COAL UNIT 6                                                                                                                          192.81    578.43    771.24
CAPITAL COST (million3 )                                                                     192.81    964.05  2,120.91   2,699.34  2,313.72   1,735.29   1,156.86
FUEL COST (milion Y)                                                                                                                  86.88    455.99    734.57
OPERATING AND MAINTANENCE. (million Y)                                                                                                57.84    173.53    231.37
TOTAL COST (miOhion 3)                                     0         0        0         0    192.81    964.05  2,120.91   2,699.34   2,458.44  2,364.81   2,122.80
AIC OF COAL ALTERNATIVE (YUAN)                         0.5081
COST DIFFERENCE (COAL- HYDRO)                          (39.01)  (134.94) (324.36)  (483.74)  (300.67)   313.36   1,088.47  2,033.45   1,728.57   1,395.46   1,709.03
EQUALIZING DISCOUNT RATE                               46.73%
NPV OF SHUIKOU PROJECT COSTS                         2,953.50
NPV OF THERMAL ALTERNATIVE                           7,724.04
NPV OF THERMAIJNPV OF HYDRO                              2.62
IRR CALCULATIONS
BENEFIT (FPEPB 1995 AVERAGE TARIFF)                     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    156.11    819.40   1,319.99
BENEFIT - COST                                         (39.01)  (134.94) (324.36)  (483.74)  (493.48)  (650.69) (1,032.44)  (665.89)  (573.75)  (149.96)   906.22
IRR BASED ON FPEPB 1995 TARIFF                         15.12%
BENEFIT(TARIFFTOTHEGRID)                                0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    214.49   1,125.82   1,813.62
BENEFIT - COST                                         (39.01)  (134.94) (324.36)  (483.74)  (493.48)  (650.69) (1,032.44)  (665.89)  (515.37)   156.47   1,399.85
IRR BASED ON SHUIKOU TARIFF TO GRID                    19.04%
BENEFIT(WILLINGNESS TO PAY)                             0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    255.70   1,342.10  2,162.02
BENEFIT - COST                                         (39.01)  (134.94) (324.36)  (483.74)  (493.48)  (650.69) (1,032.44)  (665.89)  (474.17)   372.74   1,748.25
IRR BASED ON WILLINGNESS TO PAY                       21.45%
a/ Costs for Shuikou do not include railway relocation costs which appraised separately in original appraisal. Economic costs calculated annually by
(i) multiplying the local cost with standard conversion factor; (ii) converting at the official exchange rae to USS;
(iii) adding to foreign cost (iv) converting to 1995 constant prices by using MUV index; and (v) reconverting to Yuan using the 1995 exchange rate.



YEAR                                                        1985     1986      1987      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992       1993      1994       1995
ASSUMPTIONS
COAL PLANT (ECONOMIC COSTS)                                                                    SHUIKOU
CAPACITY COST (Y/KW GEN.)                                 6,427                               OPERATING AND MAINT. HYDRO ( Y/KW)             57.14
FUEL CONSUMPTION (G/KWH GEN)                                330                                DESIGN LIFE HYDRO (YEARS)                       50
COAI COST (Y/TON STD.yb                                    440                                AUXILIARY POWER USE (%)                         0.1
FUEL COST PER KWH GEN                                     0.1452                              FORCED OUTAGE (%)                               0.5
DISBURSEMENT RATF COAL PLANTS                                0.1       0.3       0.4       0.2 ANNUAL OVERHAUL (DAYS)                          41
OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE ( Y/KW)                        192.81
FCONOMIC LIFE (YEARS)                                        30                                                                         with Sucharge ( Y/KWh)                   A
AUXILIARY POWER USE %                                       6.0                               FPEPB 1995 AVERAGE TARIFF         0.293      0.348
FORCED OUTAGE %                                              10                               SHUIKOU TARIFF TO GRID            0.325      0.380
ANNUAL OVERHAUL (DAYS)                                       42                               WILLINGNESS TO PAY                0.398      0.453
b/ Coal price based on FOB Qinhuangdao (USS35.4/ton, 5500 kcal/kg). Shadow freightage of Y48.0/ton (from Qinhuangdao to Fujian) was added to price, and two percent
transportation losses were assumed. Calculated price was therefore Y349/ton which is Y444/ton of standard coal.



YEAR                                                     1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006
SHUIKOU
POWER ABSORPTION BY GRID (MW)                           1,200     1,400     1,400     1,400     1,400     1,400     1,400     1,400     1,400     1,400     1,400
ENERGY ABSORPTION BY GRID (GWh)                         4,900     4,950     4,950     4,950     4,950     4,950    4,950     4,950     4,950      4,950    4,950
ECONOMIC CAPITAL COST (million l, 1995 CONSTANT) /a   605.93    243.92    105.00       0.00
OPERATING COST (million Y)                              68.57     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00
TOTALCOST(mi1ionY)                                     674.50    323.92    185.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00     80.00
AIC OF Shuikou (Yuan/kWh)
COAL ALTERNATIVE
EQUIVALENT COAL CAPACITY (MW)                        1,414.30   1,650.02
EQUIVALENT COAL ENERGY (GWh)                         5,194.00   5,247.00  5,247.00   5,247.00   5,247.00  5,247.00  5,247.00   5,247.00   5,247.00  5,247.00   5,247.00
INSTALLATION SCHEDULE (MW)                                300       300
CUMULATIVECAPACITY(MW)                                   1500      1800      1800      1800      1800      1800      1800      1800      1800      1800      1800
COAL UNIT I
COAL UNIT 2
COAL UNIT 3
COAL UNIT 4
COAL UNIT 5
COAL UNIT 6                                            385.62
CAPITAL COST (milion Y)                                385.62      0.00      0.00
FUEL COST (million Y)                                  754.17    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86    761.86
OPERATING AND MAINTANENCE. (million Y)                 289.22    347.06    347.06    347.06    347.06    347.06    347.06    347.06    347.06    347.06    347.06
TOTALCOST(millionV)                                  1,429.00   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92  L
AIC OF COAL ALTERNATIVE (YUAN)
COSTDIFFERENCE(COAL-HYDRO)                             823.08    865.00   1,003.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92   1,108.92
EQUALIZING DISCOUNT RATE
NPV OF SHUIKOU PROJECT COSTS
NPV OF THERMAL ALTERNATIVE
NPV OF THERMAUJNPV OF HYDRO
IRR CALCULATIONS
BENEFIT (FPEPB 1995 AVERAGE TARIFF)                  1,355.21   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04
BENEFIT - COST                                        749.28   1,125.12   1,264.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04   1,369.04
IRR BASED ON FPEPB 1995 TARIFF
BENEFIT(TARIFFTOTHEGRID)                             1,862.00   1,881.00   1,881.00   1,881.00   1,881.00   1,881.00   1,381.00   1,881.00   1,881.00   1,881.00  1,881.00
BENEFIT - COST                                       1,256.07   1,637.08  1,776.00   1,881.00   1,881.00   1,881.00   1,881.00   1,881.00   1,881.00   1,881.00   1,881.00
IRR BASED ON SHUIKOU TARIFF TO GRID
BENEFIT (WIINGNESS TO PAY)                           2,219.70  2,242.35  2,242.35   2,242.35  2,242.35  2,242.35   2,242.35   2,242.35  2,242.35  2,242.35   2,242.35
BENEFIT - COST                                       1,613.77   1,998A3  2,137.35   2,242.35  2,242.35  2,242.35  2,242.35  2,242.35  2,242.35  2,242.35  2,242.35
IRR BASED ON WILLINGNESS TO PAY



36
TABLE 10: STATus OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cov                  0igiu        Revisd
Agyeo-                nulSIt   Prt       fiufllhmt    fAlflSmt
meat      Sedion      type      iau         de           dde               Desiption iof cownat            Coame
Loan      3.01(b)       13         C                                GOC  al enter iato a suidiazy lomn
spumeat widh FPEPB uwit.nu
syacty to the Bark
3.04           1        C                                 GOC sh  esumre that he panwmt
railway relocation at Swkou shall be
curied out
3.05          5         C                                 GOC to cary out a arenuat jpm
scemtaeto eBank.
Projea    2.06(a)       10         C                                FPEPBshaflcanyouttsudiusof:(a)
coainated opeation of hydrodecic
plans In the Fujian and ELat Chin Grish
and related systeminpronr;and (b)
power systan cantmb and load di ng
*%tcm in Fujian and Eat Chinu
2.06(b)       10        C                                 FPEPBshll aryouttaoimn gofaffin
utility m    _nanea flancial pluum2i and
3.04          6         C                                 FPEPBtoprovideforperiodicindepmat
inqaection of das during c oabuction mid
after cnIpletiarL
4.01(b)       2,1       C                                 FPEPB lU iffshauua yly audtked
(ii)                                                      fhuancial iate    W auditora rape to
the Bank, not lat than Jlue 30.
4.02(a)       2         C                                 FPEPB will take, or cae to be tkn,
meum    as shll be repird  to produce ifr
eadc of its fiscal ym ater Decarnber 31,
1986, operatming revaues equivalat to not
lsthan the mun of its to  opoerting
-cpanses and the arnount by wach its
fiuncial obligaions exceed the provmion
for dpralion and any other n-cdmh
opeig expau
4.03(a)       2         C                                 FPEPB shad not icu any debt unlm a
reumableforecal ofthe revnu  and
ae xtlarea dhm  that the projeced
irtnal cah pgm&on for ech fisl year
duri the tem ofthe debt to be kErred
sall be atl ka 1.3 tinme the  nated debt
including the debt to be inoid
4.04          2         C                                 FPEPBwillfunishto dieBankby
Dewaher31 of each yew. fora cmint a
firlmz    plan cutairingforca  aome
jnamats, ourm and u  offiu* mad
balae sh   for each of the netd five
YOMs



37
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
The project was carned out in full compliance with the following Operational Directves:
Statement Number and Title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OMS 3.80 - Dam Safety                Fully Complied.
2. OD 4.00B - Environmental Policy for Dam  OD not in force for first project, but fully
and Reservoir Projects                   reflected in second project.
3. OD 4.01 - Environmental Assessment    OD not in force for first project, but fully
reflected in second project.
4. OD 4.02 - Environmental Action Plans  OD not in force for first project, but fully
reflected in second project.
5. OD 4.30 - Involuntary Resettlement   OD not in force for first project, but its
provisions were catered for under the
Borrower's resettlement policy, and were fully
implemented under second project.
Resettlement included as component of both
I projects.



38
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned                     Revised                      Actual
Stage of proect cycle             Weeks         $'000         Weeks         $'000         Wecks          $'000
Prepairatim to appraisal                                                                  53.5           96.7
Appraisal                                                                                 53.4           96.4
Negotiaions throu    Board                                                                36.4           74.4
approval
Supervision                                                                                107.7        241.6
Comnpletion                                                                               6.6            14.5
Toal                                                                                   257.6         523.6
TABLE 13: BANK RESouRcEs: MISSIONS
Pa mmance rating
Specialized     Imple-        Devel-
Stage of project cycle          MontW      No. Of    Days         taff skills   mentution     opmen        Type of
year     persw     in field   repesnted ls      deatu      objectives    probleas
Ilough appisl                    2/16         2                    SA.E
Apprais through Boad approval
Board approval through
effective_m
Supervision        1             09/37        2         7                          1
2            04/88        2         6          E,FA             1
3            07/88        2         11          E,E 
4            01/89        1         7           SA              1
5            03/89        2         11          Ec,E            1
6            09/89        4         11       Ec,A,E,FA          I
7            04/90        5         3       Ec,Ec,A,E,FA        I
8            07/91        5         4       E,FA,A,Ec,En
9             10192       2          5          ER              I
10           05/93        2         7           E,R             I
Completion                       04/96        3         7          E,R,R
/j A. AnIropologibt E: Engineer, Ec: Ecanomis, En: Environnbtal Conuhant, FA: Financial Analyst, R: Resettlement Specialist,
SA: Sociology Advisor



39
FIGURE 1
Costucio  Prpaatoy W ar el           wS
2010  ~01JAUG87  3     R0 1J8A0ANG87  30JUL890~oL
onrtnoFDiversion Wollrks~
2020 jOIAPR8AJ28FE99OA 01CT87' 31MAY88
Construction of Cofferdams
2050  01DEC87A 30APR88A OIJAN88 131 MAR88                 ' N
2080  01UG88  31AY90OIAUG89' 31 MAR90
01 AUG91 131 MAR92                                                               Cn~
Meut Snking of "W Condurt Gates IL Conc. Plug                                                                       
2080.  01OCT92          '301JAN92' 31MAAR93
Damt
Excavation of Dam Foundation
3010  101CCT87AI31MAY88  010CT87  31MAR88
I                                        I                             t~    tg II
3020  O10CT88A 311DEC90A 01CCT88 131JUL90
oi               - l ii  n tl 
Concreting7
3030  01DEC-88  31MAY89  010CT88' 31MAR89
13040 iO1APR9OA 3OAPR93A 01MAY90'131JAN93                                              ng                      rt-o      laf
I j                                                                     Co  sing    age~~~~                     - niC(ncet    Sag1
Erectof Gates & Hoist & Imbedded Parts
3090  O1APR91A 3MAY93  O1 APR91 130APR93                                                                                   aa i  td  ao 
Erection of Penstocks
'3060 01OCT9OA 31DEC91 010CT90- 31DEC91
Powerhouse
IFoundabion Excavation
I-4010 O11SEP588A 3OSEP9OA 0lSEPS88131JUL90
Concreting
14020  011UN90A313OSEP93A 01MAY9O  ~31JUL93                                                                                      wKsC .E Ki   dS
Erect of Tailrace Gates,Hoislz A Imbedded Parts
1 4030 1O1APR9lA 310CT91A 01MAR91' 30SEP~917
- Erect ofTa, rac!a       I    0       t
404001DC9231MAR93 '01N0V92 131JAN93
Erection of turbne of Taenerator
4050  01AU)G90. 30SEP96  01 JUN90- 31 MAY95
2201190 Swilchysrd!
-5010  01M-AY89  218FEt93A 01JUL89- 31AUG91                                                            O   vo    Cnrtna200                  iy
Erecton of Frames  Electric Equlpmnten
Transnmission Line - 800 kivI
.600    O1UL9A 3MAR3  OJULO   3MAR93
Navigation Works                                                                                                          I     moLl     D I        *  e1
Foundation Excavetion 
7010  ~01D)EC91A30APR92AI01SEP91  ~31JAN92                                                                 Ec1vsdFcrirtI        Aan
Concreting7l
7020  O10JAN92A 3APR94AJOTiNOV        31JAN93t M
Erection of Gatee, Helate A Imbedded Farme
703    0MAY93  31AUG94 01MAR92'31MAR93                                                                                rc6n           CI       1
J 74001CT93AI31DEC99A 01APR93' 30JU9
wel. a.i    *i.ws, r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ne.nve~                                               " t        
oaoi  .1u.e,e  m?.eeiT   R   a                                          FPEPSISHPC
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ACTUAL PROGRESS vs TARGET SCHEDULE



rr.n.d and ,k..ll Fl_.el 38a8.. h    F PR (m 916-11 s9
Tble I 1:IN4C(8MESTATEMl4NT
(Y n_alla)
196                 1987                 19R8                 1989                  1990                 199I                   I2                   IW3                    1994                   1995
Ye  Fe DecAC 531                          Proced   Actul    PucFtcd  ACtul          Potia   AttS          lirnedled  Acua      I'i9ecled  Actlul    I'mi#ctt1 Actal    Pgetcd   Attcal          P'r.gcctll  Aclual     Praecled   Aclual    lPraycird   Atti.
esd    Ine(% )                               66       116          79      137         2012     165          19       179         02        36          16      211          20       11            136      179          315       189          211        151
Ea   S( s(GW1a)                            4,730D   5,0D0       5.160    5.690        6.200    6,631       6,315    7,817       6.328    8,095       6,428    9,803        6.539    10892        6,663    12,840       8.764    15,274        10,637    17.578
AW  ePFinC(ferAWh)                           7-4       76          8.0     a8           90      10.3         9.2     13.3         9.3      152          94      172          9.6      172           98       218          110       261            12      303
1Te "    b% SeRern         3S14     38-         413       498         558      683         533  1.937           588   L22           605      ,689         630      ON932         654     2,795          964    398?          1.276     5,326
FId                                           85      112         104       355         131     1375         138      198         137      172         340      262          142      260           145      377           129      378          125       334
Pwsced Po a                                   41       33          44       33          45        53          48      475          53      599          60      945          67       931            73     1,556          78      1,688          80     2,042
Opelt&Ua        e                             36       24          42       29           56       41          64       47          69       56          77       63           85        85           931      35           116      207          157       236
A        _.m*WW                               19       to          20        14          23       19          27       15          31       26          33        12         39         39           42       86           45       166           5l       235
Sdm Tx /a                                     53       39          62       308          U4      119          87      323          a8      131          91       150         94        197          98        157         145       616          193       832
Dqreabi                                       36       39          431       3           57       64          63       74          66       88          72       83           75       143           78       175         338       332          172       513
Ovab._                                         0       17           0       23            0       26           0       30           0       46           0       63            0        73            0       104           0       380            0         0
OtberExo~0                                              0           0        0            0        0           0        0           0        6           0        13           0        23            0         0           0         0            0       265
Le  FuuTham            lRe =e                  0        0           0        0           0         0         (15)       0         (30)       0         (42)       0          (44)        0          (59)       0          (71)        0          (86)        0
igmLgafl nComab                270     324          313      W5         396      517         412      960         414    1.124          433    O590          458     1_75           .16K    2-613          360    2,567          690    4,4132
38       58         o()O      83         162      166          369       77         174      305         174      92          172       JX2         I36        336          40.3      335          596       Ul3.3
(8lnhehcmne(13 e)                               0       (2)          13        t           0 n        I3                 2           1)       7            3)     12           ()        (13           1        271          1         17           (I 15
lata   Cb.e43dto( Opatma                        7        0           7         0          2         I 3        2w3       1          27        0          23        33          22        Ai           12         7          .15      1#2            12      "11
N.Inc33m9EGe  ncrom Tx            77       56          93       83          137      366         141       78         147     132          351       77         350       146          364       206          359       219          5!4       332
Ihmc e Tax                                     36       26          38       23           50       54          53       23          5l       26          47       36           26       42            34       17          112        83          175      I35
N03g39m1e                      43       0L          5S        60          97      112          88       55          96       8.6         3.l       43         124       105          3.30     3;2          237        366         .39)      225
I)tnbutbu Fl Net Income
R-ni4nceltoGmonenl                            21       12          22        8          131       16          32       12          29       12          25        0           6                     I 33       0           74         0          121         0
Tufameeed  a0u.wnitFwtd                       12        7          23       35          48       55           45       27          54       54          66        0         102         0          102         0          155         0          197         0
EuploynymtBmeftSpeal Fund                      9       33           9       17          10       43           33       17         13        20          14        0           5         0           3 7        0           18         0           20         0
0peruhngRat o(S%)                               76       85          76       83          71        76          71       93          70       91          71       94          73        91           72        93           58        90           54        333
Rate lmae                                   1.011      921        1,260    3.P58       3,530    335(3       1,669    1,654       1.750    1,928       1.831    2,229        1,862     2,406       2,533     2,866        3.983     5,315        5,332     8.6)3
Rale oRetnim .)                               8.3      63           79       738        303      12           o03      47          99       54          95        44          92        75           7 1      65           10.1      738         303        97
to mdi. 8pm  an 1994 nd 1995 iepeement  hiue-aded-lax
X~



I'l.eJItd and ActuAl Financial S.alenments ot FPFr.B (1986-1995)
Table!1: BAIANCE SIIEET
t( mibdon)
1986                 1987                  198X2                 19K9                  199d                 1'91                  1992                    1290                   1994                    tot
As otl2ceatber 31                          Irqectkd  Actual      'toiccllc  At 2tt4 2  2'tt-tcd  Ae-l       PitoetI.! Aclal    I'rtjctctl  Acltt:t    I't.2ttc,d  Acdlttt   2'ojcctcd   Actt.l     P-.-tl,d   ActtltI     2occtd   Achtal         Pitoctoit   AcItttl
AMSETS.
Qursol A-r
Cab                                           24       47           30       62           42       K6          56        68          67       267          79      210           B1       697          101       929           226     2,456          259      2,869
Ifnonlori.                                    40       45           44       52          50        51          55        76          61       76           66      06            71       410           71       365           81       472            86       625
Ac.ou.uRnt vcnwbic                            25       13           27       12          28        23          30        52          33       67           34      108          36       I22            37       337           39       528           .10       5.19
Olhar C ent Asnb                               0        0            0        0           0         0           0         0           0        0            0        0           0          0                      9            0         27                    2 79
To2alCuncntcAsset,              89       205         202      129          122      1ot          222      296         162       320          79      36           191     2,226          213    12610            246     2473           2XS     3,122
I.ou4cn Itivcattit-tent                          0         0           0        0            0                              0           0         0           1        0            0         0            0       227                     157            O       241
Fixed Awla
P!e it Scoce                               1.363    1.261        I2,9I    1.583       2,1(12    1,952       2,196    2,319        2,391    2,654        2.197    3,210        2,604     3,240        3,947     4,600         5,745     9,103        7.116    12.16X
lJs AcuanAlIudl)eprcabla                    (352)    (340)        (393)    1389)       (.SO)    24451        (523)    (516)        (579)    (601)        (6522    (7062       (726)      (811)        (R0I)  (1,306)         (922)   (1,797)       (1.0951   (2.309)
Net Ple  in Scnce             1,011     921        1,508    1,191        1,652    2,505        1,685    1,803        1,815    2,053        1,8.16    2.404      1,878     2,409         3,141     3,124        4,823     7,306        6,041    20.060
Coantchon WIP                                663    1,183          704    2,500         875    2,H96         1.180    2,628       1,627    2f619        2,425    3,490        3,197     4,126        2,620     5,927         1,591    3,323           907     2,i16
Told diFedAb                  1.A7 (   2,)Q1        212    2.679         2,527    3.101        2,K65    4.432       3_442    4.692        4,271    5.94         5,075      ,534        5,76,6    9,253         6427    0_6292          ,919   )22510
SpccsFunduA3b                                   92       140          95      176          137      155          149      176         146       169         252      204          123       354          168         0          200          0          222         0
Defencdarsd      bk Acts                         0        0            0        0            0        0           0         0           0         0           0        0            0         0            0        94             0        30            0       473
T2u1st                        I855    2,349        2_4 WS    3,005       2. M6    3,73         3155    46803        _379        (.7)      4602   6g44           5389      622 7        6_147    11,122         6_[63    53.299        7233    16260.2
LUAWBI.JTIES A E1M2
AccomuaPayafbk                                29       47           11       521          I        55          3S       85           is       232          40      111           12       282          12         28           45       260            17       322
Dueala&oanane                                  1        7            8        5           K         K           9           11        9       24            9       19           10       53            20        32           10        26            11        11
:hnel-Idfl8l.n                                 0        0                O   22           01        0           0        0            0        0           0         9           0         0             0         0            0         3            0          0
OterCurwa Lwbben                               0        0            0                                          0         0           0        0            0        0            0         0            0       227           0       660             0       691
ToalCunen2L.aWitebs        37        54          39       59          211       63          44        96          47       255          49      259           52       340           53       866           55       949            58     1,258
Wmka   CapttFund                                27       33           27       37           76       10          29        49          30        47          29       34           30        53           27         0           33          0           41         0
1t-ltin Debt                                   812    1,127        1.311    1,600        (,$66    2,0118       1,09    5,202        2,275    3,339        2,996    4.214        3,656     5.39        4,237     7,267        4,690      8.705        4,961    10,293
Go(enm 4 Fmuntd                                865      770          902      830         964       959        1,059    1,110       1,170    1,207        1,279    1,318        1,421     1,528        2.533         0         1,729         0        1.9R7         0
SpesaiFunita                                   114       15S         128      209          267      258         214       285         227      34R          248      487         230        562          297         0          356         0           405         0
CqipdConsuct, nAiancbons                         0      207            0      220            0       53           0        61           0       75            0      272            0       316            0         0            0         0             0         0
CapilaI                                          0         0           0        0            0        0            0        0           0         0           0        0            0         0            0      1,706           0      3,000            0     3.266
CsP" sua                                         0         0           0        0                     0            0        0           0         0           0        0            0         0            0      1,023           0       385             0     1,242
Rdcsd Ew0  p                                     0         0           0                     0        0           0         0           0        0            0        0            0         0            0       141            0       250             0       171
Tdrdli66.&_E l.j           A51   2,349         2,217    3,2005       2,7K6    3,721        3,155    4,803        31749    5,171       4,601   6,14          53829      , 17        6,147?    1,112        6.863    13.262         7,455    16,5413
Lonq-gten DlbI %  a of LT Debt ad Fquqty      45 3      54 8        56 0     614          57 6     6s 9         58 7     69 7        62 0     68 2         66 2     70 0         66 9      71 8         69 h      72 1         69 2       70 5         67 S      67 .1
DeWEiquy Ruo                                  084       101         128       132         136      184          142      219         163       208         196      207          221       230          231       276          224        266          206       232
DebEquity lRalio                            0 4576S  0 50275     0 56086  0 56872      0 57681  0 64794      0 58732  0 68665      0 61917  0 67569     0 66181 0 67438       0.68807 0 697168    0 697902  0 733711    0 691389 0 726441    0673642 0696815
DceVAEqmuy4Ru                              426/54   50/So        56244   57/43        58142   62/35         59/41   69/31         62238   68132        66/3.1   67733        69/31   70230          70/111    71/27        69/31    73227         67233    70/30
(Cutnoa Rabo                                    2 4      1 9         2 6       2 2                  7o  2 6      1 2      2 0          1 4      2 0         1 7       2.1         3 7       3 6           0         I 29         4 5       2 6          1 9       2 6



I1'e,IrId and A -tual Financial Slanmmnls of FPEPH (1986-1995)
labl: FUNDSPFl.OWlATTAA           IENT
(Y rilhrwe)
1986                   1987                   19XX                   19h9                   1990                    1991                   1992                     1993                     1994                     1995
Ytar FEded December31                         PrNoected  Actual      t'rocuted  Actuall      PrAoc1-cd  Actual      t',cIted  Actu,l      Protected  ActIal      P-o1ected  Actual      Irujected   Actual       trocled   Acutal         Protected   Actual       Projc-ted   Actual
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internad Cah Gmeraben
Netln 1meplnlnterelEupesrse                      48        30           62        (t0          112       11          116        56          123        86          127        74           116       136           152        16           292        318            111      720
Dep,eabAen&Amoinhnn                              36        39           41        53            S7       61            63        74           66        88           72        83           75        1413           78        IK0            i         407           172        XX07
Mamnlesce                                          I       17             I       23             1        26            2        it0           2        46            2        63            2         73             2          El            4          0             6          (I
Duinbutn Fx.pnsion Spet Feud                     20        38           25        3R8          69         32           74 A      19           6 7       52           S9        73           18        1161           73        206            92        2x1           1112       219)
Otlheekesou7oes                                   0        43             0        1.1           0        2\            0        30            0       8)9            0       :17            0        102             n          c             0          17            0          17
Tot.al Intern.al    uces          I(S       167          129       2tux         211      2            25I       219          2'6       t1.6         2(1,       510          211       7M4            3113      Is          s316       1,0 33)           I       1. 67
leropeed II1R1813  en h-ltcr  I                            I            I         12          /1        '            '71      219'            I'3     6 Xl                   63 Xo                  1631            3i        I              II        II             II
it."ene i 1 -lan - bI..  ase II                   (t                      o II     II           It                      1) I       ) I                                          II           II         II            II        '32            11       131             II        I7
oIres eshikbe  leqgeciluau                       90         0           1R1         0              1 1.1  II          178         0          12-1        0          719         0          747          0           5SI          0           153          0           12S          o)
Obes Loan/a                                     342       598          270       491            8x       5o1           36       635           17       710           24       907           24       1.2(0          177      1.611           293      1S507           425      1.1791
Total rnr-.9tts                  432       598           527       523          319       552          307       854          536       R21          799       '32          771      I 363           692       1,777          616      !638           330      1.9QR
tiuze,nmleusllFaeleIl-ce                            0       1 0  130       0        11            0         X             0         8            0        26            0        76            0          7             0          0             10        (0             1          1
Total Seace,ufFuncd               537      955           6S6       73(4         N3.1      6t6          S62    I.!ol           794     1 253         I 059     1o_O?2       \0 )12     L24            99 7     2  S23         IJ52      2z677         1,2 t I      7(7
APPLICATIONS OF PFNDS
CartS Epvnstlsne
PwpoedShukmr Pec1etl                             87       141          242       471          201       1((           232      422           461       431          675       610          604        710           3.t1       8\5           (        1,212            (9)      711
0IheCeFsnrer-en3b                               327       647          247        62            78      160            29       440           10       A12           19       697           20         S6           170      1.157           2Y1        18           199      1.152
Iene-esl DangCensltulion                         17                     37                     17                      16                     66                    101                    147                      IKI                      11                      160
R1no insuDii  bibstutionExp-.s.o                52                     54                     9S                     106                    104                    \08                     79                      122                      15S                      171
Tol Capital F_      t\uees     483       7488         580       536           I 1      V6A         .113       862          64!       817          906      I307          950        766           81.1        0992         802      1.371           72 \     23'13
OperalmnaedRqucrsmenbt
Chrant e    Wdnu% Capitd                           1        4             S         I            I                                                                                                    \7 1  itt)  S  Ic   123  0  331)         I)      221               1           II
(11ages in Special Iid, Assets                    0        23            0        1x             o       21             0        20            0        12            0        82            0         63                  0    (7            (1          0             1          0
Dehb Serce                                       21        19           33       Ill           90       121           92        Ill           98       IIS.         10    66               1l1        282           133        19)           29')       52'           11l     I1
Remiltni ce. Inuiiennre- l                       21        12           22         a           31        16           32         12           29        12           23        (0)           6         (6)           1I         0            7.1        0            121          t
SpecialFtind Epenpinut                            8       104            8        47            9        96             9       104           10       1R2           12       172           13        t13            11          0            10          0            17          0
lnaceamsin L g-leebnInvestmenel0 0                          0            0         0            17        0             0         0            0         0                                   0          0                      112             0         12 3                      7
ToEaOpgrattmaJReqr       -nemetn.    53       164           70       (95          112       261           137      265           142      327           142       197          156       871            166        199          329        780            I5       I21.5
TulalAeelrcabusrrufPIars        536      952          650        711          5416      123          550    1_127           783    1.174          10318     14           1\006      1637           9R0      2 191         I.130      2.150        _129        3.311
Ir(de)c-easesrCa,h                                   !         3            6        13           1t        13           12       (26)           11       59            II     (2021           6        487             17       732            22        S27            32        III
Annual DeXo Se-ce -oiaga tbme)                     t 0       5 9          2 9       I S          1 9        16           1 9       1 1          1 9       2 0          2         2 1          3 6        2 5           3 7       9 2            1 7       1 I            1 7       1 I
Self-eas-eiRgReio (%)/c                            170       IS          1370       )42          1110)     39I           310       83          220       203           3 174     170          lo0       4s53          180        2017          317        21 2          417)       11 R
ta actual ber-rrineg moutnit  claden other Shuiko. project loau aod ether oa-'s
/b achanl expedirtss telade rn-tmeenla as a,hes c               -eslju beet rerovatbons. dirtrrbil,,u., erpasor.oT   .    IDI C
/c dtnbutson expaion  pec,al fetd. ace included at ute-al cash generatun sece 1992



43
ANNEX 2
IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
FOR
SIIUIKOu HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
FUJIAN, CHINA
(LOAN No.: 2775-CHA)
FUJIAN PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
MAY, 1996



44
IMLEMENTATION REVIEW FOR
SHUIKOu HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
FUJILAN, P.R.CINA
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Foreword
1.    The Shuikou Hydroelectric Project is the largest hydroproject in East China with a
total installed capacity of 7 x 200 MW, a dependable output of 260 MW and an average
annual generation of 4,950 GWh. It is a large multipurpose project planned mainly for
power generation, but for navigation as well. It is a key project in the national 7th and 8th
Five-Year-Plan, and it is a pilot project for managerial system reform in the field of large-
scale hydroelectric project construction. The project is partially funded with World Bank
loans in two phases.
(a)   Phase 1: Loan amount of US$140 million with an original closing date of
December 31, 1991, an extended closing date of June 30, 1992, and final
closing date of June 30. 1993.
(b)   Phase II: Loan amount of US$100 million with an effective date of
October 20, 1992, and planned closing date of December 31, 1996.
2.    ICB procedure was introduced in the construction of main civil works and
procurement of imported electromechanical equipment. The competitive bidding system
was also adopted for all temporary work and local procurement items.
3.    The construction period for the project from commencement of the project in
March 1987 to commercial operation of the first unit on August 6, 1993 was only about
six years and five months, which was about two months behind the original
implementation schedule in the SAR. However, the milestone dates for various stages of
the project had been realized timely. The main river was closed on September 25, 1989.
During 1990, excavation of the dam and powerhouse foundations were started and
completed, the placement of concrete was entered into peak production and a record of
123,000 m3/month was created. In 1991, the annual concrete placement reached 1.15
million m3 and the transition from Stage II to Stage III was carried out. In 1992, the
project withstood successfully an early flood and overcame all the difficulties caused by
the extraordinary flood (50 years in return) on July 7, 1990, and was kept ongoing to form
a basis for the first unit operation in 1993. The peak labor forces during construction of
the project did not exceed 4,000. Overall construction quality was verified in the first rank
among the under construction of five large hydroelectric projects scaled over 1,000 MW
in the national quality evaluation for priority projects organized by Ministry of Energy
(MOE). The requirement of 'high speed, quality and efficiency' was realized in the
project. Up to the end of 1995, six of all seven units were put into operation with an



45
accumulated electricity generation of 8,290 GWh. All of these achievements received
benefit from taking the advantage of using World Bank loan actively to introduce the
experience and practice of international project management and to import advanced,
foreign technology and equipment, as well as from national reform and opening policy,
and joint efforts as team work from all parties involved.
Review Implementation of Main Works
Organization
4.    FPEPB is the owner and proprietor of the project. Representing the owner, SHPC
implements overall management of project construction and also exercises the functions of
the construction unit and engineer. East China Investigation and Design Institute (ECIDI)
serves as the designer. The contracts for main civil works and for the installation of
electromechanical equipment have been awarded to a construction joint venture
(Chinese/Japanese) and the Fourth Hydroelectric Construction Bureau of China
respectively through competitive bidding procedures. Resettlement in the reservoir area is
implemented by SRO under the Fujian Provincial Government. The Morrisson Knudsen
Engineering Co. (MKE) of the USA was hired to provide consultancy services for SHPC
in the aspects of construction and contract, management and for ECIDI in the reviewing
of bidding documents and design management. In the meantime, a Special Board of
Consultants (SBC) was appointed to review and comment on the major technical issues,
project management, environment, and resettlement during the design and construction of
the project at various stages.
Progress in Each Stage
5.    According to the implementation schedule established in the SAR for Shuikou,
Phase 1, the construction schedule provided for commencement in January 1987,
commissioning of the first unit after 6-1/2 years (June 1993) with the six subsequent units
commissioned at four month intervals. There were three critical intermediate dates related
to the river diversion schemes, main river closure on September 30, 1989, transition from
Stage 11 to Stage III in September 30, 1991, and reservoir impoundment on March 31,
1993. The schedule is demanding, even by the standards of an experienced international
contractor.
6.    With joint efforts contributed by all concerned parties including FPEPB, SBPC
ECIDI and the contractors, each milestone schedule was finished on time. The Min River
closure was fulfilled on September 25, 1989, the diversion transition from stage 11 to
stage III was carried on November 20, 1991 and the reservoir impoundment started on
April 2, 1993. The generation of each unit was delayed slightly because of the delay in
supply of the equipment. The first six Units were put into operation on August 1, 1993,
February 8,1994, September 2, 1994, December 28, 1994, November 6, 1995, and
December 28, 1995 respectively.



46
Progress Before Min river Closure
7.    The commencement of main civil work was carried on March 9, 1987 and the
overall excavations of the dam foundation on right bank and the diversion channel were
carried out in June 1987. However, the contractor was a joint venture established by two
countries and four companies.  The main project problems arose from  (1) the
exceptionally low bid price, resulting in financial constraints on the contractor, and (2) his
very weak construction organization, which caused in many intemal conflicts within the
JV and low production. About 18 months into the construction period, the progress was
about 6 months behind the river closure schedule.  After discussions amongst all
concerned parties and pressure from Government of China, the contractor decided to take
measures to have a major reorganization of their corporation, with a Chinese partner
taking over management responsibilities from the Japanese partner. The Owner proposed
an amendments to the Civil Works contract under the approval of the World Bank, which
included: (1) an increase in the construction equipment mobilization advance from 15% to
25% with repayment over a longer period; (2) decrease from RMEB 5,000,000 to RMB
2,000,000 of minimum monthly contract expenditure required for payment authorization;
(3) increase in foreign exchange proportion in contract price from 48.5% to 65%, (4)
Establishment a bonus/penalty systems. As a result of these measures progress improved
considerably. The daily excavation production reached to 10,000 M3 for six months
continuously with maximum monthly production of 345,700m3. Finally, the excavation of
the diversion channel was completed timely. The first milestone of river closure was
fulfilled on time on September 25, 1989.
8.    In order to increase the foundation of the Dam Blocks 34#/3@.# which form as a
part of diversion wall and to relieve the difficulty caused by the leakage of the cofferdam,
a design change to relocate the diversion conduit No. 10 from Dam Block 34#/35# to the
middle of river, Blocks 23#/24# so as to ensure the smooth construction of diversion work
and the river closure.
Progress Before Diversion Transition-from c-stage H to Stage III
9.    After the river closure, flood protection projects in 1990 were progressed well.
However the financial constrains on the contractor made the delay in procurement of plant
for stage 11 concrete production system and labor force and technician were not sufficient
to meet the requirement of massive concrete placement in Powerhouse and Dam, all of
these caused a low placement at beginning though the foundations were ready for placing.
The completion of stage 11 concrete systems including the batching plant, cooling system
and cable cranes transportation system were delayed from April 1990 to August 1990. In
this case, the progress before stage III diversion was delayed for about three months.
10.   In order to speed up the progress and simplify the construction, ECIDI
investigated design changes, and SHPC took the lead in computerized scheduling studies,
resulting in a revised master schedule with some measures and diversion schedule
adjustment, but with the overall completion date maintained, such as: use of RCC, slip
forms, precasted members, steel structure, etc. as well as changing of the Diversion



47
Scheme. In addition, the Owner made some decisions, such as compensating the
additional cost during the expediting, introducing bonus/penalty system etc., to relieve the
Contractors financial constrain further.
11.   In fact, all of these measures were practicable and effective for catching up
schedule. The main cofferdams were breached on October 25, 1991 and stage III
diversion channel inlet cofferdam was closed on November 20, 1991, the diversion
transition from stage 11 to stage III was realized.
Progress Before Reservoir Impoundment
12.   After diversion transition, the project successfully prevent an earlier Min river
flood of 13,600m3/s on March 27, 1992 (100 year in March). Up to May 1992, the
overall project situation met the designed flood prevention requirements. The subsequent
works concerned to reservoir impoundment, such as the spillway section were still tight.
On July 7, 1992, the project was encountered an extraordinary 50-year flood, which
caused the tight schedule even more tight. In intake trash rack, spillway, and powerhouse,
the duration was affected about one month. In the navigation facility, the cofferdams were
topped over, the equipment located in the pit were damaged, the duration was affected
more than 6 months.
13.   In order to release the constrains created by the delay in spillway construction
especially the installation of tainter gates, it was decided to add two service gates i.e. 4 in
total to retain the reservoir water at the beginning and to provide a dry condition for
installing tainter gates during the flood season. Up to February 1993, the project situation
met the requirements of plugging 10 diversion conduits and starting reservoir
impoundment by the end of March. And the last gate was set on 2 April 1993 according
to the hydrology condition and d/s water supply requirement. The successful reservoir
impoundment meant that the last milestone of the project was realized.
Electric and Mechanic Works
Supply of the Units Equipment
14.   The signature of procurement contracts for the seven units of main equipment and
their accessories was made in August 1988. However, since the payment for equipment
delivery spanned over Phase I loan while the Phase 11 loan was not available at the time, it
created a big trouble and time consuming to issue the LC though every effort was
involved. The LC was not available until the end of 1989, which was delayed for nearly
one year compared to the contract stipulations.  The manufacturing schedule and
equipment delivery schedule was affected.  Because the manufacturers proceeding
capability was limited and many manufacturing contracts were signed as well as Shuikou's
seven turbines are among the largest Kaplan turbines in operation today with big size and
complex manufacturing technology, the actual deliveiy intervals for each unit was longer
than four months as established in the contract and the casting defect of the runners for the
later units made the part delivery delayed for one year



48
E/M Installation
15.   The E/M installation contract was signed in January 1991, and the contractor
mobilized to site in March 1991. As the Statements in the contract document, the
installation duration for each unit was 16 months counted from the installation of stay ring
to completion of 72-hour trial operation with units commissioned at four months intervals.
The installation duration for Unit #1 to #6 are 15, 13.5, 12.5, 11, 12, 10.5 months
respectively.
Others
Construction Situation of the Navigation Facilities
16.   The stage 11 excavation for the shiplock and the shiplift bottom slab foundation
started after the closure of the channel on 20 November 1991. The construction of
shiplock was affected by the extraordinary 50-year flood on July 7, 1992 about six
months. The lock should be put into operation by July 1993. However, water filling and
trial operation of shiplock was started in September 1994. Unfortunately, some cracks
occurred in each bottom slab of the lock chambers, lock walls and the watering galleries
during the trial operations. The commissioning and trial operation of lock was suspended.
A meeting presented by an panel consisting 8 local experts invited by the Ministry of
Power was held to review the design and the construction of shiplock in February 1995.
Some comprehensive treatment measures such as cracks grouting, leakage drainage and
strengthening the chamber l# and 2# walls and bottom slabs by using prestressed
anchorage were proposed. In May 1995, the defect treatment and strengthening works
were started and finished in September 1995. In October, the independent and combined
tests of E/M equipment and hydraulic facilities were finished. Then watering up the lock
and started trial operation again in November and the internal trail navigational operation
was carried out in December. On February 10,1996 public trial started with traffic twice a
day. Up until March 22, 538 boats had passed through the lock in 92 passes. Total
tonnage passed was 16,557 tons. However, it was decided to use the imported equipment
to replace the domestic hydraulic equipment and electric control elements so as to ensure
reliability and stability operation of shiplock. The replacement will be carried in following
October and November and then will be ready for operation.
Change of the Projects Scopes
17.   In 1990 the design was changed as the three flights shiplock plus a vertical shiplift.
Additionally, the location of shiplock and shiplift were reversed to allow the shiplift close
to right bank. The construction of shiplift was added in the World Bank for second
Shuikou.
18.   FPEPB decided and approved by the Bank to suspend the 500 kV tieline project
with East China.



49
Resettlement works:
Progress
19.   According to the requirements of the civil works progress, an overall resettlement
works was commenced in the end of 1987. The works was divided into three stages:
Stage I before March 1990, 32,000 people were resettled; Stage 11 before March 1992,
20,000 were resettled and Stage III before March, 1993, the rest resettler were arranged
to move the reservoir area. The main progress were summarized as follows:
(a)   The resettlement organizations at provincial, prefectural and county levels
were established in the second half year of 1986, and the propaganda and
mobilization for resettlement were started.
(b)   In 1987, site investigation, planning and design were made for the
concentrated resettlement area.
(c)    The period for rebuilding is between 1988 and 1991. The land leveling,
housing bases, water and electricity supply and access road were
constructed sequentially for the Sage I and part of Stage 11 resettlement
places. The housing bases of 1,620,000 M2 were distributed on the
township and village basis. The house building and resettled work were
performed in great swing. Many difficulties were encountered due to the
tight schedule and financial shortage. In order to meet the requirements of
river transition from Stage 11 to Stage III, the operations of 'the house
reconstruction, resettlement and land leveling were carried out parallel as
well as the Stage I resettlement standards was changed from twenty years
round to ten years round. Ground leveling for stage 11 and III
resettlement started.
(d)   After 1992 the resettlement compensation was raised and the resettled
work for Stage 11 and III were executed smoothly by taking the
experience in Stage I resettlement work. At the same time, the perfection
work of the new resettlement places and the protection of the reservoir
banks were carried out. Some of resettlement places were integrally
inspected and accepted. With the joint efforts and full support from
various parties and resettlers, the overall resettlement work was finished
half a year ahead so as to ensure the requirements for timely reservoir
impoundment and power generation be met.
(e)   By the end of March 1996, of the total resettlement budget of 1,057 million
yuan, 1,034 million yuan has been spent(97.8 percent). The overall
resettlement work has been basically finished. The main remaining works
are as follows: Further perfecting the protection project for the reservoir
banks and the control of environmental aspects in the reservoir area; giving
aid to the production and development in the reservoir area and speeding



50
up the investment to the beneficial items; specially supporting the resettlers
who are still below the poverty line; and particularly planning and properly
managing the reservoir maintenance and construction fund.
Production Development in the Resettlement Area
20.   Since 1988, The resettlers has been led to develop the production system while the
resettlement physical works such as housing reconstruction and resettlement of people
were undertaken. From the second half of 1991 to 1992, the attention was paid on the
establishment of production development shifting from mobilization to the full swing
execution. In 1993, the production development was deepened further. In 1994, the
resettlers experienced a change from their house building to the production development,
from which they have increased their income.
21.   In general, a great achievement was made in the resettlement work of Shuikou
Project. The resettlers have worked and made a new life in their reclaimed land and
production system. Most of the resettlers have restored or exceeded their living standards
comparing with that before the resettlement. The production development has shown its
initial results, with the increasing of employment and economic opportunity, the adjusting
of industrial structures, and the perfecting of the infrastructure which has taken on an alive
new appearance in the resettlement area. The construction of Shuikou Hydroelectric
Project has not widened the gap between the rich and the poor resettlers in the reservoir
area, and the production and livelihood in the reservoir area has shown that the developing
future is hopeful. The resettlement project of Shuikou reservoir is a successful example.
Environmental Aspects
22.   Based on the sediment deposition observation during construction and the earlier
stage of the reservoir impoundment, the changes of sediment deposition amount in
Minjing reservoir channels are little, and the flushing/siltting amount is generally balanced.
The mean annual sediment charge still maintains about 0.143 kg/m3 . The service life of
the reservoir will be very long (over thirty years).
23.   The water regimen automatic measurement & recording system for Shuikou
Hydropower Station has been put into operation since 1994. The forecasting accuracy of
the system is around 80 percent with 6-9 hours forecast period, which allows to dispatch
and control flood in time and to fully use of reservoir storage to generate power. Also, it
is convenient for the downstream to adopt flood control measures when a big flood
occurs.
24.   According to "Regulations of Grouding Water Observation in Fujian Province", a
total of five sections were set by the authority of Ninping City in Mingjian River, Jianxi
River and XiXi River to observe and analyze the water quality. By analyzing the water
quality index in the end section the reservoir before and after the reservoir impoundment
in 1993, it showed that the water quality index changes slightly between 1990 and 1995,
which indicates that the water quality before and after the r eservoir impoundment does not



51
change evidently and the water in the reservoir has a strong migrating diffusion and
dilution capability.
25.   The reconstruction and extension navigation facilities included twenty-six docks,
three navigation administration stations, two sections of navigation channel and some
relevant navigation marks. The construction of all these project were started in March
1989, and were completed in the end of 1994. The total investment for the works was
21.48 million RMB yuan. The operation of river traffic for goods and passenger from
Nanping to Shuikou started in 1995. The navigation operation would be greatly improved
with the official operation of Shuikou Shiplock. Fishery has become a scale production,
and water and soil conservation around the resettlement area will be controlled effectively
by afforesting, bank slope protection and environment control in the reservoir area.
26.   The reforestation in construction area of main work includes the construction site
recovery, embankment access to Anrenxi and spoil area and service roads, etc. The total
area is about 210,000 M2 with 11.8 km long. The reforestation planning was started in
1994. Trees planting from the beginning of 1996 to the end of April 1996 reached to
27639, among which there are 1871 arbors, 18448 bushes, 1670 wies and 5650 flowers.
The reforestation will be finished by the end of 1998 when the site cleaning for shiplift
construction is completed. The total cost of the reforestation is about 3.07 million RMB
yuan.
27.      The environmental monitoring and evaluation for Shuikou Hydroelectric
Project indicates that no major environmental problems are expected under the project.
OPERATION PLAN OF SHUIKOU POWER PLANT
Dam and Powerhouse Works
Operation Management
28.   From August 1,1993 to the end of 1995, power generation of six units of Shuikou
Power Plant accumulated to 9.29 billion kWh, with unit cost of 111.10 yuan/GWh. The
mature forced outage rate is remarkable low with about six hours per year per unit or 0.07
percent. Overall availability, after forced and planned outage, is about 93 percent.
29.   The preparatory works for Shuikou Power Plant was started in May 1992, and
preparation for production was ready in July 1993, Through the actual operation and
inspection for near three years, the preparation for production is in a better and solider
condition. Shuikou Power Plant established in light of the new management method is an
streamlined organization and its personnel have a high level of competence through
professional training. The management of the plant reaches to a efficient way.



52
Procedures for Equipment Operation and Maintenance of the Power Plant
30.   Work in powerhouse is carried out according to the relative regulations of the
Ministry of Electric Power and the rules made by the Plant. Every operator has one copy
of Operation Manual in hand and implements regular maintenance schedule. Once some
problems appear, they must be solved in time. The regular maintenance schedule for units
and main equipment shall be made, i.e. one overhaul every 5 years and two routine
maintenances every year.
Reservoir Dispatch
31.   Reservoir dispatch shall be carried out correctly and effectively to ensure efficient
utilization of water energy and more power output. Safety procedures of the Plant shall
be carried out in view of the safety standard procedure and regular maintenance
procedures for the dam and powerhouse operations, including regular inspection and
maintenance for the hydraulic-structure in the dam and powerhouse and safety inspection
for flood prevention facilities, such as the spillway and gate operating system and flood-
forecasting system.
Environment
32.   After the operation of the units the main environmental works shall be followed the
domestic regulars and the Bank's requirement, including the following activities
monitoring: submergence in the reservoir area, sediment deposition and water qualitv in
the reservoir, water regiment, earthquake, ecological aspects, bank caving and depression,
as well as the sediment siltting in the downstream navigation channel around the Plant.
Resettlement
33.   The compensation cost for resettlement was estimated to be 1.05 billion RMB
yuan in total. Up to the end of March 1993, there still remains 23 million yuan, which will
be mainly used for bank slops protection and production and development as well as
poverty-assistance.
34.   In February 1995, Fujian Province passed the 'Temporary Provision (No. 145) for
the Ten years Shuikou Reservoir Maintenance and Construction Fund". These provisions
are designed to channel 0.004 yuan/kWh of the output for the further development of the
population resettled due to the Shuikou Reservoir. The revenue estimated to be generated
should be as follows:
1995           4,763 GWh   Y19,052,000
1996           4,800 GWh   Y19,200,000
1997-2004      4,950 GWh   Y17,800,000



53
35.   SRRO has received a payment of YIO million for 1995. The regulation states that
about 50 percent of the fund should be used for public infrastructure improvement in the
first two years, and 50 percent should go towards improvement of new production
activities, with this proportion increasing up to 100 percent after two years. So there will
be a sum of 20 million yuan for reservoir maintenance each year. which will be used for
production and development and improving living standard of the resettled people.



54
ANNEX 3
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LN. 2775)
AIDE MEMOIRE EXTRACT
1.    This is an extract from the aide memoire of the completion mission for the Shuikou
Hydroelectric Project. Since the same mission also supervised the ongoing Second
Shuikou Hydroelectric Project, those parts not relevant to the first project have been
deleted.
2.    A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs./Mmes. Barry Trembath, Martin ter
Woort and Zhu Youxuan visited Fuzhou over the period March 20 to 25, 1996 to
supervise the above mentioned projects. The main objectives of the mission were to
collect information for the completion report of the first project, and appraise the
proposed additional scope for the second project. The mission would like to express its
appreciation to FPEPB, SHPC, SHPP, SRRO, ECIDI for their participation, the excellent
documentation provided and the gracious hospitality extended to the mission.
Status of Project Execution
3 .    SHPC made a presentation on progress of the project. Since the last mission, the
fifth and sixth generating units were put into operation generally as scheduled in early
1995, as delayed by casting defects at Harbin. The seventh unit is planned to be
commissioned in September 1996 as projected during the last mission. Unfortunately, this
commissioning will miss the 1996 high flow season. The shiplock was put into public trial
operation on February 10, 1996 and it is operating satisfactorily. However, it is planned
to take it out of operation for about two months in the 1997 dry season to replace the
locally manufactured hydraulic equipment with imported equipment. With regard to the
shiplift, schedule has been maintaineci on the critical path activities, although delays of
some non critical activities are delayed about one month. It is still planned to complete the
towers to El. 74 m by the end of 1996. Removal of the downstream cofferdam will be
commenced in May 1996, and the shiplift chamber will be floated through the cofferdam in
August or December 1996.  Shiplift procurement, and equipment manufacturing is
proceeding on schedule. FPEPB awarded the shiplift equipment erection contract to
Wuhan Shipbuilding Industry the local equipment manufacturer.
4.    Finishing and architectural works on the dam and powerhouse are underway.
These are scheduled to be substantially complete by the end of 1996.



55
Operation of the Project
5.    The project is operating satisfactorily. In 1995, due to favorable hydrology, the
output of the power plant was 4,763 GWh, which is only slightly below the design output
in an average year with all units operating i.e. 4950 GWh. Total generation to date is
8,290 GWh which has generated revenue equal to more than 50 percent of the
construction cost of the powerhouse including interest during construction. SHPP
presented figures which indicate a mature forced outage rate of about six hours per year
per unit or 0.07 percent, which is remarkably low. Overall availability, after forced and
planned outages is about 93 percent.
6.    Trial operation of the shiplock was commenced on December 26, 1995, and it was
put into public trial operation on February 10, 1996. Up until March 22, 538 boats had
passed through the lock in 92 passes. Total tonnage passed was 16,557 tons or 30.8 tons
on average. Typically the lock can pass 12 boats at one time. The mission observed a
smooth upstream passage of 11 boats of which five were barges carrying sand, while the
other six were empty. At present, no toll charge is levied, but it is planned to introduce
charges once shipping volumes have been established. Based on operations to date, an
annual volume of 120,000 t is projected but this is likely to increase substantially once the
availability and reliability of the lock is more widely known.
RESETTLEMENT
Shuikou Reservoir Resettlement Office of Fujian Province (SRRO)
7.    SRRO reported that by the end of March 1996, some 23 million yuan of the
resettlement budget remains to be disbursed. Of the total resettlement budget of 1,057
million yuan, 1,034 million yuan has been spent (97.8 percent), of which 45 million yuan
was spent between October 1995 and March 1996. It was pointed out that monies flow
from SRRO to the counties, but that the counties may not have fully spent the monies
received. The resettlement expenditure per capita will stand at 15,720 yuan once the
budget has been completed. While 97.8 percent of resettlement funds have been spent, it is
not clear if 97.8 percent of the overall resettlement task ((1) physical relocation, (2)
infrastructure replacement, and (3) income restoration of affected households), has been
completed. While task (1) is complete and task (2) may be reasonably complete, it is not
certain if task (3) is complete. See our comments under ECIDI.
8.    On February 2, 1995, Fujian Province passed the "Temporary Provisions (No.
145) for the 10 Years Shuikou Reservoir Maintenance and Construction Fund". These
provisions are designed to channel 0.004 yuan per kWh of output for the further
development of the population resettled due to the Shuikou Reservoir. The revenue
estimated to be generated should be as follows:



56
1995               4,763 GWh          Y19,052,000
1996               4,800 GWh          Y19,200,000
1997-2004         4,950 GWh           Y19,800,000
9.    SRRO has already received a payment of Y1O million for 1995. The regulation
states that the fund should be used according to suggestions made by SRRO. However,
SRRO has not as yet proposed a budget for the use of the funds. It stated that in the first
few years, about 50 percent should go towards infrastructure improvement, and 50
percent towards improvement of new production measures, with this proportion
increasing up to 100 percent after two years. Considering the findings of the mission's field
visit (see next paragraphs), this would seem to be appropriate. However, the overall level
of funds available on a yearly basis (about 20 million yuan) may not be sufficient to deal
with the remaining problems in the reservoir area. This is an issue that should be
investigated.
ECIDI - Independent Evaluation of Resettlement
10.   Discussions were held with ECIDI staff on the results of the 1995 field survey
work undertaken as part of the 5-year Independent Evaluation of Resettlement. Based on
two days of discussions in Fuzhou and one day visit to reservoir villages, the mission
recorded its comments and recommendations which are presented as Annex B. It is
pointed out that the last evaluation field survey will take place in the summer of 1996 and
that in order to take full advantage of this opportunity, the field work be organized to
collect the maximum of useful information to provide a clear indication to Provincial
Authorities what still remains to be done. The mission also noted that the quality of
evaluation reports has been steadily improving and hopes this trend continues.
COMPLETION REPORT PHASE I
Overall Completion Report
11.   The mission received an overall report on the completion of the project. This is a
very good report, but there are some areas where amplification would be useful. Mission
comments are appended as Annex . One main comment is that this report, representing
the overall completion report for the project, should include summaries on environment
and resettlement aspects, which are dealt with comprehensively in annexes. Sections
should also be added under Performance of Units Involved in the Project and Key Lessons
Learned.
Project Investment
12.   A report on project investment was received by the mission. The mission
requested some revisions to enable comparisons with appraisal estimates to be made and
to present the information in suitable form for ex-post economic evaluation:



57
(a)    The costs should reflect the original scope as covered in the Staff Appraisal
Report for the first project.
(b)   The cost headings of Figure I and Figure 2 should be used for Figure 4.
(c)    Separate tables should be presented for foreign costs (in US$) and local
costs (in RMB).
(d)    A second total column should be provided showing currency conversion (at
exchange rate applying during each year of expenditure). Thus the foreign
portion should be converted to RMB and the local portion to US$. These
four total columns should be identical to those presented in Figures I and
2.
Ex-Post Economic Evaluation
13.   The analysis required was discussed with ECIDI representatives. Demonstration
that the project is least cost will be carried out by comparison with 300 MW coal fired
plants with imported coal. The IERR should be based on the 1996 price of Shuikou
energy to the grid (39.8 fen/kWh) with the addition of provincial and local surcharges
averaging about 5.0 fen. This price can be taken as a lower bound estimate of "willingness
to pay". Sensitivity analyses should be conducted based on average grid price at
generation level (about 33 fen) plus surcharges of five fen, and for maximum price
currently being paid or planned to be paid to any generating plant (plus surcharges).
Resettlement Aspects
14.   SRRO presented the information requested by the November 1995 mission. While
the information lacks some of the detail required, it will be incorporated into the Bank's
report on Shuikou Resettlement. SRRO will later this year have an opportunity to review
a draft of this report and supplement any information at that time. In the mean time,
SRRO will provide FPEPB the information required to finalize its completion report on
Shuikou I to the Bank.
Environmental Aspects
15.   The mission received two reports dealing with environmental aspects both
prepared by ECIDI
(a)    Sediment Deposition Observations in Shuikou Reservoir during
construction period, February 1996. The report suggests that sediment
measurements continue for the next five years, in order to obtain useful
information on the post-construction operation period This
recommendation seems to be justified.
(b)   Water Regimen Automatic Measurement and Recording System for
Shuikou Hydropower Station, September 1995. The system in 1994



58
predicted four floods with an accuracy of 80 percent. However, due to
equipment failure, two large floods greater than 20,000 m3/s were not
accurately predicted. Verbal reports during the mission indicated that seven
floods greater than 10,000 m3/s were predicted. if this is so, the report
needs to be amended to reflect this fact.
16.   These reports pertain to Environmental Management Plan (EMP) activities 4.2 and
4.4. However no comprehensive report on the overall implementation and budget of the
EMP, as requested by the two previous missions, has been prepared. This summary
should follow the outline shown in Annex B of the November 1995 aide memoire. The
Environmental Protection Office (EPO) of FPEPB should coordinate the production of
the report. Particular attention should be paid to the water quality section of the report.
Summary Completion Report
17.   The summary completion report, to be published with the Bank ICR is in
preparation.
FPEPB Financial Aspects
18.   FPEPB have been working with Ms. Alice Huang (in Taiwan) to assemble financial
data in the required form. When complete, Ms. Huang will forward the data to
Washington.
Operation Plan
19.   This report suitably summarizes the plans for operation of the project. However,
for completeness it should also summarize ongoing activities in relation to environment
and resettlement.
Schedule for Elaborations/Revisions
20.   The mission requested that the revised investment data be forwarded to
Washington for comment by April 15, 1996, and all other reports be forwarded to
Washington by April 30, 1996.









