Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4420-CUIA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL HANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO rHE
EXECUTIVE nIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIIVALENT TO t140 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
December 3, 1986
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name   -  Renminbi CRMB)
Currency Unit   -  Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
Calendar 1985         November 1986
$1.00 = Y 2.96        $1.00 = Y 3.70
Y 1.00 =  $0.34       Y 1.00 =  $0.27
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
km         -    Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh        -    Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcaLs)
CWh         -    Cigawatt hour (1,000,000 kiLowatt hours)
TWh         -    Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW         -    Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW          -    Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kV         -    Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA        -    Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes
M1VA        -    Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
TPD        -    Ton per day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ECEPA   -  East China Electric Power Administration
ECHIDI  -  East China Hydroelectric Power Investigation and Design Institute
ECC     -  East China Grid
FPEPB   -  Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau
FPC     -  Fujian Provincial Grid
FTPS    -  Fuzhou Thermal Power Station
CPF     -  Government of the Province of Fujian
GVIAO   -  Gross Value of Industrial and Agricultural Output
HIPDC   -  Huaneng International Power Development Corporation
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
LIB     -  Limited International Bidding
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOF     -  Ministry of Finance
MWREP   -  Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
SAA     -  State Audit Administration
SBC     -  Special Board of Consultants
SHPC    -  Shuikou Hydroelectric Project Corporation
SPC     -  State Planning Commission
WREPERI -  Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute



FOR OFFICIL U.SE ONLY
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:               Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureau (FPEPB)
Amount:                    $140 million equivalent
Terms:                     20 years, including five years grace, at standard
variable interest rate
Onlending Terms:           The proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the
Government to FPEPB under a subsidiary loan agree-
ment with a 20 year term, including five years of
grace and at an interest rate of 8.5Z p.a. The
foreign exchange risk (between the dollar and RMB)
and commitment fees would be borne by FPEPB.
Project Objectives         The project seeks to support economic growth in East
and Descriptions:        China and Fujian province through development of a
major hydroelectric site on the Min river. The
project would be the Bank's first involvement in the
power subsector in Fujian province and the fifth
Bank loan for development of the power subsector in
China. The project would help to: (a) develop a
major hydro site to serve primarily as a peaking
station in the East China Grid; (b) introduce modern
technology for speedy construction of a large dam
and power station; (c) link the East China and
Fujian systems and promote more effective integrated
operation of a major regional grid; and (d) provide
training in management of international contracts
for large civil works and in financial management.
The project comprises the construction of a 101 m
high concrete gravity dam, spillway, powerhouse and
navigation lock; provision and installation of seven
generating units of 200 MW each; construction of a
single-circuit 500 kV transmission line and instal-
lation of equipment at an associated substation;
provision of consulting services for design and
construction management; resettlement of the
reservoir area population and a program for its
economic and social reestablishment; and carrying
out of studies and a training program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits:                   The project will provide a dependable capacity of
1,000 MW to meet the peak demand for the combined
East China and Fujian provincial grids and generate
an average of 4,950 CWh annually. Indirect benefits
include the improvement of navigational conditiona
on the Min river, and the expansion of the capacity
of the Waiyang-Fuzhou railway.
Risks:                      The geological conditions are very good; investi-
gations have been thorough and engineering
competent. There is an inherent risk of delay
because of the size of the project and its long
gestation period but arrangements made for
construction have reduced it to a minimum.
Estimated Costs: /a
Local         Foreign       Total /b
---------- ($ million) --
Preparatory works                              19.9            2.9         22.8
Resettlement compensation                     100.5             -         100.5
Civil and associated works                     59.7          139.4        199.1
Metal works                                     9.8            3.8         13.6
Electrical and mechanical works                71.8           80.9        152.8
Transmission lines                             30.4           25.0         55.4
Engineering and construction supervision        7.8           10.9         18.7
Administration                                 10.5             -          10.5
Technical assistance and training               0.5            1.0          1.5
Total Base Cost:                           310.8          264.0        574.8
Contingencies
Physical                                     27.7           23.1         50.8
Price                                       118.8          111.4        230.2
Total Project Cost:                        457.3          398.5        855.8
Interest During Construction
IBRD loan                                      -            72.7         72.7
Other loans                                  83.2           76.1        159.3
Total Financing Required:                  540.5          547.3      1,087.8
/a   The project will be exempt from import duties and taxes.
7i   Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



Financing Plan:
Local         Foreign       Total
---------- (US$ million) -------
IBRD loan                                        -           140.0        140.0
Foreign exchange loan(s) to be arranged          -           260.0        260.0
Local bank loan(s)                            540.5          147.3        687.8
Total                                      540.5          547.3      1,087.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                        1987       1988       1989      1990       1991
-------------- (US$ million) ---------------
Annual                            4.0       24.0       28.0       36.0      48.0
Cumulative                        4.0       28.0       56.0       92.0     140.0
Economic Rate of Return: 15%
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 6189-CHA dated November 24, 1986.
Map: IBRD 19561



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Shuikou Hydroelectric
Project. The loan for $140 million would have a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The proceeds of
the loan would be onlent from the Government to FPEPB under a subsidiary loan
agreement for a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, and at an
interest rate of 8.5% p.a. FPEPB would bear the foreign exchange risk
(between the dollar and the Borrower's currency) and commitment fee on the
subsidiary loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report, entitled "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex II.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have thus far progressed the
farthest in the rural economy. Following some experiments with the abolition
of collective farming in impoverished areas, the Government implemented a com-
prehensive restructuring of rural institutions based on various forms of the
"production responsibility system".  By 1983 the farm household had become the
fundamental unit of management and production in agriculture, within a frame-
work of collective or state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms
are now proceeding in the urban economy, and there have been significant
changes in enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and
individual economic activities has been enlarged, and state enterprises have
been allowed greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their
mandatory plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain
some profits, and investment projects are increasingly being financed on a
loan rather than a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has been progressively
opening up to the rest of the world. Between 1978 and 1985, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10%, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through the establishment of four Special Economic Zones and the
signing of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more
recently through the opening of 14 coastal cities to foreign investment.



-2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped to stimulate more rapid development of the
economy. Real GDP growth averaged 5% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 1OZ p.a.
between 1981 and 1985. More recently, in 1985, growth accelerated to 12.3% as
a result of further reforms emphasizing decentralized decisionmaking, and the
expansionary macroeconomic policies of 1984. During 1978-1985, per capita
incomes in real terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more
than 50% in urban areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong
performance, with gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry
and commerce) rising at nearly 11% p.a. between 1981 and 1985 and grain output
at 8% p.a. (reaching as high as 407 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and
animal husbandry, stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices, have also
grown rapidly. Gross industrial output value grew at over 10% p.a. over the
same period, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster than light industry
(12% p.a. vs. 9% p.a.). If rural industrial output is included, gross indus-
trial output value grew at close to 12% p.a. in real terms between 1981 and
1984. The energy constraint on industrial growth was eased by rising coal
output (8Z p.a. between 1981 and 1985), renewed increases in crude oil produc-
tion (4% p.a. between 1981 and 1985) and improvements in the efficiency of
energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption grew only 60% as
fast as CDP between 1981 and 1985). Manufactured exports growth, at 8% p.a.
in real terms between 1981 and 1985, was slower than during the 1978-81 period
in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits, combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilize or program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls r investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the buuget deficit from about 5% of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1% in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2% p.a., and change China's exter-
nal position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly $4 billion
during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios were still
at low levels ($13.1 billion and 6.8%, respectively, in 1984), and China's
foreign currency reserves rose to $17.8 billion (over 9 monthst imports) by
mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position disappeared rapidly
during the course of 1984 and early 1985. Partly as a result of decentraliza-
tion of decisionmaking and the lack of effective indirect policy instruments,
there was a rapid acceleration of investment and consumption during late 1984
and the Sirst half of 1985, causing the economy to overheat.  Real GDP grew by
12% dur4 1985, while average wages in state-owned enterprises rose by 201,
and domestic credit grew by 22%. The retail price index rose by B.8% in 1985.
There was also a rapid expansion in consumer goods imports. As a result,
foreign exchange reserves had fallen to $13.2 billion by the end of 1985
(equivalent to 4.2 months of imports), and the current account deficit for the
year was $12 billion, much of which was financed by an increase in foreign
borrowing. China's external debt by end 1985 reached $20 billion, up from
$13.1 billion in 1984 and the debt service ratio (including short-term debt)



- 3 -
rose to 8%. The Government responded by launching a strict stabilization
program that aims to control imports and borrowing and includes further
increases in interest rates as well as a series of administrative directives
governing bank credit and project approval. Most recently, in July 1986, the
Renminbi was devalued from Y 3.2 to the US dollar to Y 3.7, and a program to
improve controls over external borrowing was introduced. As a result, aggre-
gate credit and investment as well as new import orders have begun to slow.
The balance of payments in 1986 is likely to show an improvement, albeit small
from 1985.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. According to
that decision, confirmed by the recently approved Seventh Five-Year Plan:
(a) state enterprises should be made fully independent units which pursue
profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of mandatory planning
should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning, while the focus of
planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term guidance planning;
(c) a more rational price system should be introduced, reducing the role of
state-controlled prices and increasing the role of "floating" and free market
prices; and (d) the tat system should be improved, finance and banking should
be reformed, and a larger role should be given to indirect macroeconomic regu-
lation through indirect instruments such as tax, credit and pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagricul-
tural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups oi households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economiL
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
product-, have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 19S5, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement agen-
cies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original quota procurement price.
Thus, a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be produced
for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has continued with significant
progress on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on
broadening and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises.
Profit retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enter-



-4-
prises and to nonindustrial mactori like transport, commerce, construction,
and other services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as
A variety of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown
rapidly (the number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000
in 1978 to 3.4 million in 1984).
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit taz system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because financial
discipline at the enterprise level remains weak. Efforts have been made to
strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more strictly enforce existing
financial regulations, but the expectation remains strong that the Government
will subsidize losses.
12.       Progress has also been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many consumer goods are also
set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating prices"
(up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many industrial
producer goods (either for all output or for output above the mandatory plan
target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw materials (which
in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized basic consumer
goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to implement,
hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living standards
and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some price
rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and, moreover, the share
of free-market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has increased in
recent years. Gradually over time, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but
shrinking share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to
mandatory plan allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin
a substantial and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely
at flexible prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan"
in a relatively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this
strategy arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and
unplanned realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and redeposit requirements were introduced for the
specialized banks. Interest rates (including deposit rates) were also raised
in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and development of a term
structure resembling that in other countries.  Technical transformation loans
with a maturity less than one year and loans for working capital now carry the
same 7.9% interest rate while loans of longer maturity carry higher rates, up
to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on budgetary capital
construction loans (formerly grants) remain low, and there is a variety of
directed credit schemes. On the external side, greater use is now being made
of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was abolished at the



- 5 -
begh'.aing of 1985, and between January 1985 and the present, the Renminbi ha.
been devalued three times, most recently in JuLy, by 16% against the US
dollar. Despite these changes, progress in perfecting new indirect levers of
control has been slow. Recent difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance
highlight the need to strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management
tools (including monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a
decentralized and more market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In April 1986, a national Party conference adopted the new Seventh
Five-Year Plan covering the period 1986-90. The Plan reaffirms the commitment
to economic r'.form and provides guidelines for future reform and development.
Target growtn rates (7% p.a. for industry, 6% for agriculture, 7.5% for GNP)
are below rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five-Year Plan, investment
is to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed upon
quality rather than quantity of output. It is thought that slower growth will
facilitate reform and help maintain macroeconomic balance.
15.       The Plan identifies three main areas of reform.  First, enterprise
management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enLerprises greater
autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering and
equalizing taxes; increasing competition; increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, more small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through centracts or leases. Second, the role of the market is to be further
extended, and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning
will be further reduced, and markets for capital, technology, and labor will
gradually be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from
detailed administrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through
economic policy. To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the
planning, pricing, fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be intro-
duced during the plan period.
16.       Specific policy measures will take time to design and implement,
however. Many of the reforms required will be difficult. Since reforms in
different areas are closely interrelated, appropriate sequencing and coordina-
tion are essential. For example, price reform in the absence of improvements
in enterprise financial discipline will have limited benefits, yet the more
profit-oriented behavior that would result from tighter financial discipline
would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted prices. Similarly, reform of
the labor allocation system will be incomplete without eliminating many of the
"social responsibilities" of enterDrises (which Itow provide housing, medical
care, and pensions for their workers and in many cases education and jobs for
workers' children) and replacing them with Government-supported social service
programs.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 200D (which means CDP growth of well over
6% p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as
continued high saving and investment rates. The Plan recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a



-6-
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasiza
development of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
medium-sized cities and towns, while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severcly limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
of transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means ciat more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining thLeir consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coordi-
nated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management, and
social services, among other things. Peforms in the system of education and
training to develop China's "human capital" potential aLso are crucial. Back-
ward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be addressed
by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and transfer
of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories, suboptimal
scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in general are
related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary, and
other instruments is a major issue (see para. 15 above). In this context,
maintaining an adequate saving rate (since the Government no longer accounts
for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding i'sflation (as well as deep
cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assurinig an adequate minimum
standard of living for the population and an appropriate level of sociaL
services will become a major challenge, as enterprise and rural communal
responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor, backward
rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require atten-
tion. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the fiscal
system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and lower-
ing nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are some
options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the Plan calls for export growth of 40-50% over the next five
years to reach $38 billion; g-eater efforts to attract foreign investment; and



-7-
increased but cautious commercial borrowing. Imports are expected to reach
$45 billion by 1990, implying a fairly ilow growth race of 4% per annum buL on
a very high base volume of imports in 1984-86. By implication, the Plan calls
for continued borrowing on the world capital markets through the end of the
decade. Under this scenario China's current account deficit would average
around $7-8 billion p.a. during the remainder of this decade, equivalent to
about 1-2% of CNP. This implies that the present debt service ratio would
increase by 1990, although it would remain below the 15% ceiling given in the
Plan. If China's exports grew more slowly, imports would probably have to be
cut back, because a higher borrowing target although feasible, might not be
comfortable in terms of debt service indicators. This highlights the need for
continued export growth in order to meet other Plan objectives and to service
present and future commercial borrowing. The Plan recognizes that flexible
use of exchange rate and pricing policies wiLl be needed to encourage export
growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capitaL requirements during the remainder of the decade,
and access to concessionary capital will continue to play an important role in
sustaining Chins's growth. China is still one ot the poorer countries of the
worLd, but its access to concessionary capital for financing development and
modernization is limited. Apart from Bank Croup hinds, a significant amount
of concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other
bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a.
during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK CROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in the Seventh Five-
Year Plan, to increase efficiency, and to maintain equity in distribution,
China will need continuing economic reforms. China will need to import more
technology, increase trade, and expand investment. In the next few years,
therefore, the Bank can best assist China by increasing its access to foreign
technology and capital and supporting the implementation of reforms that will
help to increase the efEiciency of resource use and reduce poverty.
24.       To address China's objective of updating technology, the Bank will
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology transfer by
bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project design and implementation
and by helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions through interna-
tional competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Covernment's reform
ettorts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved. Second, financial sector reform,
primarily development of financial institutions, has become a focus of Bank



- 8 -
assistance. Third, improving planning and project analysis will be critical
to reform in sectors such as agriculture and industry, where decisions are now
being made by households and independent enterprises, as well as in infra-
structure where direct government involvement will be required. The Bank will
therefore continue its emphasis on introducing appraisal methods and financial
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Bank will support reforms in health, education and other social
services and measures, in particular, to address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       The Bank's economic and sector work in China aims at expanding the
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and of the
tools of economic management. This work provides a foundation for Bank Group
lending and for the dialogue with the Government on development options and
policies. The Bank's program of economic and sector work in China is in four
main areas.  The first consists of studies ained at providing timely advice on
the macrosystemic elements of economic reform. Past w,rk has included two
major economic reports, and a third will be produced this year based or the
findings of an FY86 mission which studied the evolving processes of mobiliza-
tion, intermediation and allocation of investment resources in China. .A study
on reform of China's foreign trade and investment regimes will be undertaken
in FY87.
27.       A secord area of the program is concerned with maLcroeconomic manage-
ment. Working iir close cooperation with the IMF, the Bank will Assist China
in examining medium-term macroeconomic prospects, with particular attention to
fiscal, balance of payments and external debt trends and related policy
issues. The Bank will also continue to organize seminars on macrneconomic
issues.
28.       The third area is sector analysis to provide support to the reform
process at the sectoral and micro levels, to strengthen sector planning and to
underpin the development of the Bank's lending program. Emphasis will be
given to sector work in industry, energy and transport, reflecting priorities
identified for the Seventh Five-Year Plan.
29.       The fourth area of economic and sector work is continued collabora-
tive economic study with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and other
Chinese zesearch institutions. This type of collaboration has proven to be an
effective means of introducing Chinese academics and technicians to modern
research concepts and techniques. A study of state enterprise management has
been completed, and work is now underway on a similar study of township and
village collective enterprises, which are expected to become increasingly
important industrial organizations in the reformed system.
Lending Operations
30.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
May 1980, 42 projects involving lending of $4,126.1 million to China have been



- 9 -
approved. Of the projects, thirteen have been in the agriculture sector, ten
in energy, six in transport, four in industry, four in education, two each in
health and technical cooperation and one in water supply. In FY85, IFC made
its first investment in China of $17.02 million for automobile manufacturing.
31.       In addition to the already approved Red Soils Area Development
Project and the proposed project, we expect to present to the Board this year
projects in port development, machine tools, agriculture, coal, urban sanita-
tion and highway development. For FY87 and beyond, we expect the lending
program for China to continue to grow from current levels. Infrastructure
projects in energy and transport will remain priorities. Technical renovation
of enterprises, particularly in industry, will be given greater attention and
support as will the regional approach to project development, which is the
basis of a proposed project to meet the needs of Gansu province.
32.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at improving
efficiency of energy consumption and expanding energy production. For
example, in the coal subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and
operations of existing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines
under construction or in operation. In power, we will assist China in tech-
nology transfer, system planning, staff training and institution building. In
the petroleum subsector, the rationale for project involvement will lie in the
identification, packaging and transfer of specialized technologies as well as
in the strengthening of investment planning and management capabilities.
33.       Future transport projects will be aimed at contributing to China's
efforts to efficiently meet the transport requirements of its growing
economy. In roads, major changes in organization and financing will be
required as a result of administrative decentralization and introduction of
the production responsibility system in rural areas. In railways, we will
focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway equipment and
materials in addition to our work on line construction and electrification.
We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to include coastal shipping
and inland water transport. For all transport subsectors, we will support
efforts to improve financial analysis and investment planning.
34.       Bank Lending in industry will continue to support financial interme-
diaries which provide credit to state and collective enterprises. In addi-
tion, we will expand lending through direct and subsector operations to
upgrade technology, conserve energy, and improve overall organization and
management, particularly in fertilizer, cement, machine tools and other
capital goods industries.
35.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will continue to be
supported through rural credit projects. We will also assist with the train-
ing, research, extension, and other service activities of the ministries
concerned with agriculture. In addition, we expect to finance programs for
specialized agricultural development such as livestock and for irrigation and
area development.



- 10 -
36.       Bank lending in education will suppport China's efforts to expand
and improve the quality of higher education, develop technical and vocational
education and strengthen basic education by improving training of teachers and
administrators, increasing domestic capacity to produce teaching materials and
educational equipment, and raising the quality of schools administration at
the provincial level.
37.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentraLed in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrading
and housing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is
expected to include support for development of medium-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
rural water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, particularly in poor rural areas, and the emerging
problems of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical
training and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects
will also support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health
services.
38.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power, transport, agriculture and rural water
supply and will remain a feature of our assistance program. We will explore
further options for cofinancing with export credit agencies. Commercial bank
cofinancing and the use of B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China
increases the overall volume of its foreign borrowing. In technical assist-
ance, we will continue to incorporate into projects components for training,
overseas study, and access to foreign expertise. In addition, we will be the
executing agency for a second UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities
remain an important element of the Bank's program and in coming years will
provide an extensive program of policy seminars for senior Chinese officials,
and economic and financial management courses and sector-specific training for
officials from core and line agencies.
Implementation
39.       Project implementation is generaLly proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects.
Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have
been established for a majority of the approved projects and have heLped to
speed disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in
Beijing to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate
project preparation, improve project implementation and further economic and
sector work.



- 11 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
Overview
40.       China is the fourth largest producer and third largest consumer of
commercial energy in the world. Coal is China's most important source of
energy, accounting for some 75% of commercial consumption. Oil production has
increased rapidly since the 1950s to become an important source of both
commercial energy and export earnings, representing about 181 and 22% of the
respective totals. Some 25% of oil production and 1% of coal production are
exported. Natural gas (2%), hydroelectric power (5%) and limited quantities
of shale oil and geothe mal power make up the balance of commercial energy.
Non-commercial energy resources supply energy equivalent to about one third of
commercial production.
41.       China has made remarkable progress in developing energy resources
over the last three decades. Annual coal production has increased from about
60 million tons in 1952 to 850 million tons in 1985. During the same period,
annual oil production increased from 0.1 million tons to 125 million tons, and
annual electricity generation increased from about 7.3 TWh to 407 TWh.
Nevertheless, the rate of growth of energy supplies could constrain the
Government's efforts to quadruple the gross value of industrial and agricul-
tural output during the period from 1980 to 2000. To avoid an energy bottle-
neck to economic development, China will need to increase coal production
beyond current targets for the year 2000 and meet at least the official output
targets set for other types of energy resources as well as greatly improve the
efficiency of energy use. Achievement of these targets will require the
modernization of technology and management throughout the energy sector,
increased commitment of financial resources, and a strengthening of planning
and coordination among the diverse components of both the energy and transpor-
tation sectors. In its Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85), the Government
accorded high priority to the development of these sectors and they are
continuing to receive emphasis in the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90).
Resource Endowment
42.       China is well endowed with primary energy.  Coal and lignite
reserves are concentrated in the north and northeast, which have about 70% of
the total recoverable reserves (700 billion tons). Future.plans call for
increasing coal production significantly, but this will pose difficult
transport problems (primarily due to a shortage of railroad capacity).
Biomass fuels account for more than 25% of final consumption. Recoverable
reserves of oil onshore have been variously estimated between 6-15 billion
tons, and estimates for offshore oil reserves range from 3-10 billion tons.
Recoverable reserves of non-associated gas have so far been estimated at about
3 trillion cubic feet (TCF), about 90% of which are located in Sichuan prov-
ince. In addition, recoverable reserves of associated gas are estimated at
about 1.8 TCF. Unofficial estimates of oil shale in China place reserves at
400 billion tons. China's hydropower potential, among the largest in the
world, is estimated at 1900 TWh p.a., of which 87 TWh p.a. have so far been
developed. A major constraint has been that the bulk of the undeveloped
potential is located in four major basins in the southwest and northwest of



- 12 -
China, 1,200-1,500 km away from major industrial load centers. The known
uranium reserves in China are sufficient to sustain 15,000 MW of nuclear power
plant for 30 years. Although potential sources of geothermal energy are
abundant in the mountainous southwestern part of the country, their role is
likely to remain limited due to their distance from major load centers.
Efficiency of Energy Use
43.       China's consumption of energy per unit of GDP is well above that of
any major developed or developing country. The underlying reasons for the
high intensity and relative inefficiency of fuel use in China are the struc-
ture of industrial production, the scale of industrial units, the raw
materials used, and the technology employed. In the late 1970s, the Govern-
ment began to address these inefficiencies by instituting regulations on
energy use, establishing conservation centers to provide technical assistance,
and allocating a larger share of investment funds for industrial moderniza-
tion, particularly those projects which contributed to energy conservation.
As a result, energy consumption per unit of GVIAD declined by 7% p.a. during
1979-81, 3% p.a. during 1982-83 and 7% in 1984. Technical and operational
improvements are estimated to have accounted for about 40% of these energy
savings. The other 60% came from a decline in the relative importance of
heavy industry, the closure of some inefficient small-scale plants and other
structural changes within industrial subsectors. There is now an urgent need
to complement and gradually replace the current system of administrative
controls with a system that would provide more autonomy to individual entities
and rely on an energy price structure that reflects the cost and relative
scarcity of each source of energy.
The Power Subsector
44.       Since the 1950s, China has grown to become the fifth largest
producer of electricity in the world. Annual per capita generation of
electrical energy grew from 8 kWh in 1949 to 389 kWh in 1985. Oi the total
installed capacity of 86,290 MW in 1985, 30% was hydro and 70% was thermal.
Power is distributed through 30 grids, of which 13 (representing over 80% of
the total capacity) exceed 1,000 HW each. Energy sales in 1985 reached 327
TWh, having grown at an average of 13.8% p.a. since 1949 and 7.9% since
1974. Of these sales, 80% represented industrial consumption, 10% agricul-
tural, 1% transportation and 9% residential and urban commercial usage. About
60% of the population has access to electricity. The rate of growth of
installed capacity has fallen in recent years; during the Sixth Five Year Plan
it was only about 5.6% on the average, and the total increase was about 20,000
MW. At present, customer requests exceed available supplies by between 45 and
50 TWh per year, and this shortage is likely to continue in the medium term.
Electricity is allocated through quotas based on priorities set by central,
provincial and county authorities.                                                           X
45.       The Seventh Five-Year Plan envisages increasing the generating
capacity by as much as 35,000 MW to generate 550 TWh by 1990. Several thermal
power ,tations will be constructed along the coast and near major coal mines
in Shanxi, Heilongjiang, Henan, Shaanxi, Shandong, Anhui, Guizhou, Nei Monggol
and Ningxia. Large hydroelectric stations will be built in the middle and



- 13 -
upper reaches of the Yellow river, and the Hongshui river valleys. Construc-
tion of a nuclear plant in Guangdong province will start during this period.
In the next five years, a 500 kV grid, supplying electricity to the
northeastern, eastern, southern and central China, will be comnissioned. If
successfully implemented, this should alleviate shortages in the long-term.
46.       Market Conditions.  Electricity consumption increased at an average
rate of 10.6% p.a. between 1965 and 1979, but this rate slowed down during
1979-85 when it averaged only 6.0% p.a. On a countrywide basis, the power
shortage is about 15% of industrial electricity requirements. It is estimated
that by the year 2000, generation requirements could be in the 960-1,290 TWh
range, requiring an additional 109,000-178,000 MW in generating capacity. The
share of electricity in total energy consumption has been rising from about
132 of final comercial energy use in 1970 to about 15% in 1975 and 18% in
1980. The share is expected to reach 26-27% in the year 2000. The manufact-
uring sector will ccntinue to account for at least three quarters of final
electricity consumption, although electricity per unit of value added may fall
slightly. Electricity use is expected to grow at 11-13% p.a. in residential
and commercial sectors, reflecting household income and service sector
growth. Use will also increase in transportation, reflecting the increase in
the share of electric locomotives in total railway haulage.
47.       Institutions.  Since 1982, the Ministry of Water Resources and
Electric Power (MWREP) has been responsible for overseeing all aspects of
electric power development and water resource management, including policy
making and system planning as well as the design, construction and operation
of power and water resource projects of regional importance. Under MWREP,
there are six regional power administrations which coordinate operations and
load dispatching for the regional grids and formulate long-term development
plans for approval by MWREP and the State Planning Commission. Below the
regional administrations are 22 provincial and municipal power bureaus
operating as parts of the regional grids, while eight other power bureaus
still operate in isolation. In addition, the Government established in 1985
the Huaneng International Power Development Corporation (HIPDC) as a joint
venture company to attract foreign and domestic investment to establish and
operate power plants mainly in the coastal open cities.
48.       MWREP has about 2.5 million employees of whom about 51% are directly
under the Ministry and about 49% are under the provincial institutions. Of
the total, less than 30% have completed formal education beyond junior
secondary school level, indicating a shortage of trained manpower, particu-
larly for well-trained administrative and technical staff. In the late 1970s,
MWREP initiated a long-term training program to upgrade the quality of its
existing staff at all levels. MWREP is also strengthening its capacity for
full-time training of potential employees through its Education Department
which sponsors four universities, 39 technical colleges, television and cor-
respondence universities and 27 secondary-level vocational schools. About
30,000 students were enrolled in these schools in 1985. About 15,300 new
staff are assigned to MWREP annually. An estimated 7,000 come from four-year
colleges and 8,300 are junior college graduates. These programs, supplemented
by periodic in-service short courses for managerial and technical staff and
on-the-job worker training, are expected to lead gradually to improvements in



- 14 -
the productivity of the workers in the sector. The proposed project would
include a training component in support of these activities.
49.       Planning.  Overall system planning is the responsibility of the
Planning Department of MWREP which reviews the proposals of the regional
administrations and provincial bureaus for the short-term (annual), medium
term (5-year) and long-term (10-15 year). For major hydro projects, the
investigation, planning and design are carried out by the regional hydro-
electric investigation and design institutes. For system expansion, trans-
mission lines and substations above 110kV and for major thermal projectsp the
studies, planning and design are carried out by the regional electric power
design institutes. As the planning of China's power subsector development
becomes increasingly complex, up-to-date system planning techniques will need
to be adopted, particularly to evaluate large-scale projects with long lead
times and to make decisions about the appropriate generating plant mix, power
plant location, and grid configuration. Arrangements were made under the
Second Power Project for introducing least cost investment programming
techniques through the technical assistance of the International Atomic Energy
Agency and for staff training of the Planning Department of MWREP and the
Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute (WREPRI) in
Beijing. They are working satisfactorily. During 1986-86 WREPERI assisted
the Cuangxi and Fujian Provincial Electric Power Bureaus to formulate their
least cost development programs.
50.       Tariffs.  Electricity tariffs have in general remained constant
since 1953, although recently the average revenue per unit has been increasing
due to the growing share of consumption by light industries, and commercial
and residential users which pay higher rates. The national average was about
7.0 fen/kWh (USc2.3/kWh) in 1985, well below the marginal cost of supply. To
support the Government's recent policy to move towards increased reliance on
prices rather than administrated quotas, the electricity allocation system
will need to be revised and more appropriate tariff structures introduced. To
assist the Government in developing appropriate electricity tariffs, the
Bank's Third Power Project includes an important tariff study that will
commence with a case study of the East China Grid (ECC) which will provide a
sound analytical basis both for tariffs for final consumers and for inter-
system transfers to promote integrated operation.
51.       Financing.  Inadequate financing has contributed to the shortage of
generating capacity and low standard of transmission and distribution facili-
ties. In the past, limited allocations from the central budget have caused
considerable slow-down of power projects. Now, as a result of recent reforms,
the power bureaus can cover about 10-15% of their investment requirements
through internal cash generation. Further changes in the funding mechanism
and the financial discipline applicable to the power bureaus may need to be
considered in order to increase the amount of resources available for invest-                X
ment in the subsector and the levels of self-financing by the power bureaus.
Tnis may also require higher tariff increases in the future than now foreseen.
52.       Technology Transfer.  The transfer and development of modern tech-
nologies will be crucial if China is to achieve its ambitious goals of
increasing energy production and efficiency sufficiently to achieve its



- 15 -
broader economic gcals. Technology transfer is critical for thermal power
plants, where increases in pressure and size of units and greater development
of cogeneration (combined heat and power generation) could reduce net fuel
consumption by some 20Z by the year 2000, thus greatly alleviating pressures
on coal supplies and transport. Coal based thermal generation is expected to
provide about three quarters of the total generation until the end of the
century. Technical transfer needed for hydroelectric projects includes inter-
pretation of geological data, judgment of foundation excavation, design for
sophisticated structures and construction management and adoption of the
largest possible generating unit !izes. The slow pace of construction of
hydro-power projects has contributed to the low level of hydro resources in
the past. Timely progress in construction will be an important focus of the
proposed project.
53.       Subsector Strategy.  The Government's basic strategy for the power
subsector is to modernize, increase efficiency, and expand at a rate suffi-
cient to meet the requirements of industrial development and improve the
living conditions of the population. The strategy includes the following
specific objectives: (a) establishing new enterprises to expand generating
capacity as rapidly as possible; (b) increasing the financial autonomy of
power sector enterprises; (c) introducing a more rational pricing system;
Cd) adopting modern techniques in project design and system planning;
(e) accelerating the pace of hydroelectric development; (f) developing mine-
mouth, coal-fired thermal stations which are supplemented, where necessary, by
stations located near ports and load centers; (g) constructing extra high
voltage transmission lines for interconnection between regions; (h) replacing
low pressure medium size (50-100 MW) thermal units with higher pressure 300-
600 MW units and conversion of oil-fired units to coal-firing; and (i) devel-
oping nuclear power in areas where other forms of energy are scarce.
Role of the Bank
54.       Past Bank lending operations have assisted the Government in
addressing subsector problems and rationalizing subsector investment deci-
sions. The major thrust of Bank assistance has been to introduce modern
concepts of utility management and pover system technology. Each operation
has focussed on specific aspects of the Government's sectoral objectives.
55.       The first power project in FY84 (the 600 MW Lubuge hydra project)
successfully promoted cofinancing arrangements in export tredits for the major
electrical and mechanical equipment and bilateral grants for engineering
services; introduced international competitive bidding for civil works and
modern construction techniques for a rockfill dam, power tunnel and under-
ground powerhouse; and enhanced the financial autonomy of the Yunnan
Provincial Electric Power Bureau. The training component under the project
included training of staff design, construction management, quality control,
accounting and cost control through technical assistance.
56.       A second power project in FY85 provided for the transmission of
power from a 1300 MW mine-mouth, coal-fired thermal power station at Xuzhou to
the East China grid, promoted a bilateral loan for the Yangtze river crossing
works, and assisted with the transfer of technology in 500 kV transmission



- 16 -
line and substation design, construction, operation and maintenance. The
training component under the project included the establishment of a training
center and equipping of two other technical schools in Nanjing and Shanghai
for the operation and maintenance of 500 kV transmission lines and substa-
tions. The project also introduced least cost programming techniques to
several provincial power bureaus.
57.       Under the third and fourth power projects in FY86 the Bank is
financing an integrated 600 NW coal-fired unit (Beilungang Thermal), which
will set performance standards for a series of same size thermal units, and
the 1100 MW Yantan hydroelectric project. Both projects were selected on the
basis of least-cost studies. The third project aLso includes a tariff study
(see para. 50). ThLese projects will help alleviate severe power shortages in
east and south China.
58.       The proposed project will help reduce the shortage of generating
capacity and energy in the East China and Fujian provincial grids (FPG),
assist in developing techniques to speed up construction of large hydro-
electric projects, and promote integrated operation of an emerging large
regional power system. Discussions between the Government and the Bank are in
progress on building up a strong pipeline of project. which will continue to
support the subsector objectives.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
59.       The project was identified in July 1980 and appraised in February
1986. Negotiations were held in Washington in November 1986, with a delega-
tion headed by Mr. Luo Qing, Deputy Director, External Finance Department,
Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6189-CHA, dated
November 24, 1986) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
A map (IBRD No. 19561) showing the project location is attached. Supplemen-
tary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
60.       The project aim is to assist China to alleviate the acute shortage
of energy and peaking capacity in the East China Grid (ECC), which now has a
predominantly thermal capacity. The project is also intended to meet the
growing energy requirements of Fujian province, where this would be the first
Bank involvement in power development. The specific objectives of the project
are to: ti) develop a major hydro site to serve primarily as a peaking
station for ECG; Cii) introduce the most modern technology available for
speedy construction of a large dam ard power station; (iii) promote more
effective integrated operation of a major regional grid; and (iv) provide
training in management of international contracts for large civil works and in
financial management.



- 17 -
Project Description
61.       The project comprises the following:
(a) preparatory works comprising access roads, construction colony,
relocation of a main highway, a bridge across the river, con-
struction power lines, etc.;
(b) construction of a 101 m high concrete gravity dom, a spillway, a
powerhouse, a three-stage navigation lock and appurtenant works;
(c) provision and installation of seven 200 MW generating sets and
associated electrical systems including a 500 kV step-up substation;
(d) construction of a 500 kV single-circuit transmission line, including
necessary equipment in an associated substation;
(e) resettlement of about 63,000 people, comprising identification of
substitute land and a diversified agriculturaL package designed to
help reconstruct the production systems and social communities of
the relocated population;
(f) consulting services for engineering and construction management;
(g) studies of Ci) coordinated operation of hydroelectric plants in the
Fujian and East China grids and related system improvements; and
(ii) power system controls and dispatching systems in Fujian and
East China; and
(h) training.
Project Management and Implementation
62.       The beneficiary of the proposed project will be FPEPB, a state-owned
enterprise under the direction of MWREP. FPEFB is assigned responsibility by
the Government for the local execution of the government program for power
generation, capital investment, power sales and tariffs, employment and
payroll, materials consumption and tax and profit remittances to the central
government. A charter of FPEPB has been issued and is acceptable to the Bank.
63.       FPEPB is headed by a director who is appointed by MWREP.  As of the
end of 1985 FPEPB had about 16,500 employees of whom only about 22% have
received technical training equivalent or above college level.  Technical
staff with formal education are now being centrally trained and assigned to
FPEPB at the rate of 120 per year. FPEPB also administers three schools for
training of technicians, skilled workers and administrative personnel.  The
bureau expects to fully meet its staff requirements from 1988 onwards.
64.       FPEPB is capable of formulating its expansion program, designing and
building medium size (up to 200 KW) hydroelectric and thermal pLants, and 110-
220 kV transmission lines. The construction of the large Shuikou hydroelec-
tric project would be organized by FPEPB through the Shuikou Hydroelectric



- 18 -
Power Corporation (SHPC), which was set up in 1985. FPEPB and SHPC have
entered into contractual arrangements. Outside assistance will be used for
engineering designs under the proposed loan.
65.       The preliminary design for the project was carried out by the East
China Hydroelectric Power Investigation and Design Institute (ECHIDI) in
1980. It was reviewed during 1982/83 by the International Engineering Company
of USA, now named Morrison Kundsen Engineering Co. Detailed designs of the
project will be carried out by ECHIDI, with assistance of Morrison Knudsen Co.
66.       Construction of preparatory works on the project and land acquisi-
tion commenced in 1985 and are proceeding well. Procurement on the main civil
works contract, which will be awarded through ICB, is also well advanced.
Bidding has been completed.   The implementation program is to start construc-
tion of the main civil works in January 1987 and complete the main dam struc-
ture in 1993 so that the first two 200 MW generating units can be in commer-
cial operation by mid-1993. The remaining five units will be commissioned at
intervals by mid-1995. The project completion date will be June 30, 1995 and
the closing date of the Bank loan will be December 31, 1991 since the Bank
will be only providing funds to cover the foreign exchange needs during the
initial four years of project implementation (see para. 71).
67.       Concurrently with the construction of the project, but outside its
scope, a 66 km section of the Waiyang-Fuzhou railway, which would be flooded
by the proposed Shuikou reservoir, is being relocated to a higher level as a
special project (costing about $114 million) in the Seventh Plan. Work on
this project started in January 1986 and is scheduled to be completed by
October 1989. Construction of the Shuikou dam is controlled to a large extent
by the progress of this railway relocation project, as the critical river
diversion into a channel is scheduled for November 1989. So far the reloca-
tion work is proceeding satisfactorily. However, during negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that it will take all steps
necessary to ensure that the permanent railway relocation shall be carried out
in accordance with appropriate engineering practices and completed in a timely
manner, and that the Bank will be furnished from time to time with information
related thereto.
68.       A Special Board of Consultants (SBC) has been established to review
the designs of the project and, in particular, the safety aspects of the
dam. SBC held its first meeting in December 1985 and confirmed that the
choice of site is optimum and that the layout and designs take full advantage
of topography and geology. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
FPEPB wilL prepare, at least one year ahead of completion of the dam, a
program of annual maintenance of the works, which is satisfactory to the Bank,
and undertake periodic inspections of the dam and associated works using
independent experts whose qualifications and experience will be reviewed with
the Bank. Assurances were also obtained that FPEPB will continue to employ:
(a) consultants for design and supervision of construction; and (b) a Special
Board of Consultants for review of designs and construction during the period
of construction.



- 19 -
Studies and Training
69.       Consulting services will be used to assist in the studies included
in the project. Financing will be provided under the Bank loan. An amount of
$1.0 million has been provisionally included in the loan for studies and
training. Training will comprise two subcomponents. Utility managers and
financial planners will be trained through short-term study tours to provide
an opportunity for senior officials to gain exposure to modern utility manage-
ment techniques. The study tours will be designed to compLement similar
training programs included in two earlier Bank-financed power projects
(Beilungang Thermal and Yantan Hydroelectric). The second subcomponent of the
training program will be carried out in China. Contractual arrangements with
foreign consultants will provide for training of Chinese engineers and
managers in contract management and efficient control and reporting of con-
struction to achieve the earliest possible civil works completion and plant
commissioning dates. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that FPEPB
will carry out studies in accordance with terms of reference and timing agreed
with the Bank and will implement the training component in accordance with the
-greed program.
Cost Estimates
70.       The cost estimates are based on mid-1986 price levels.  Physical
contingencies include 10% for preparatory works, main civil works and
engineering/administration, and 7% for metal works and electro-mechanical
equipment. Price escalations for both foreign and local costs are calculated
on the basis of the projected international inflation rates of 7.2% for 1986,
6.8% for 1987-88, 7% for 1989, 7.1% for 1990 and 4.0% for 1991 and there-
after. The total financing required is $1,087.8 million equivalent, including
interest during construction. The project would be exempted from customs
duties and taxes.
Financing PLan
71.       Because this monolithic project will have a lengthy construction
period of about nine years, the Government decided to phase the project
financing rather than secure financing for the entire project at the outset.
The Government did not wish to secure all financing up front because it felt
it would unnecessarily tie up resources which could be used for other projects
with requirements for more immediate funding. The proposed loan would help to
finance only the initial four years of project implementation (1987-90). At
the Government's request, however, the Bank has agreed to consider a request
for a second loan for the remaining period of the project. Nevertheless, the
Government is committed to and envisions no difficulty in providing for
completion of the project even if the Bank does not provide additional
financing at a later stage. At negotiations, the Government's commitment to
provide funding for the entire project was reconfirmed.
72.       The proposed Bank loan of $140.0 million will meet about 43% of
total project cost incurred during the period 1987-90. It wiLl be used to
finance the estimated foreign costs of the following components: (a) the main
civil and penstock works contracts; (b) the first two generating units; and



- 20 -
(c) consulting services, studies and oversearn training. The foreign exchange
requirement of $547.3 million is expected to be met by the proposed Bank loin
($140.0 million), foreign exchange loans ($260.0 million) to be arranged by
the Government, and local bank loans ($147.3 million). The local cost
($540.5 million equivalent) will be financed through loans from local banks.
73.       The proposed Bank loan will be made to the Covernment of China at
the standard variable interest rate for a 20-year term, including five years
of grace. Assurances were obtained that the Government will onlend the
proceeds of the Bank loan to FPEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement with a
20-year term, including five years of grace, at an interest rate of 8.5% p.a.,
and that FPEPB will bear the commitment charges and foreign exchange risk
(between the dollar and the Borrower's currency). A Project Agreement will be
concluded between the Bank and FPEPB. Execution of an acceptable subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and FPEPB and approval of the Loan
Agreement by the State Council will be conditions of loan effectiveness.
Procurement and Disbursement
74.       The main items to be procured are (a) preparatory works; (b) the
main civil works; (c) electrical and mechanical equipment; and (d) engineering
and consultancy services. A number of contracts for preparatory civil and
electrical works, totalling about $27 million, were awarded in 1985, following
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. These contracts
will not be financed by the Bank. The proposed Hank loan will partly finance
the main civil works contract, the supply and erection of the first two 200 MW
turbogenerators and associated equipment, including 500 kV equipment, and the
500 kV transmission line which will be procured through ICB in accordance with
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The total value of these contracts is
estimated at about $465.5 million. In bid evaluation, qualified domestic
manufacturers would be eligible for a preference of 15% or the import duty,
whichever is lower. Supply and erection of the remaining five generating sets
and associated equipment will be procured locally by LCB. The procurement
arrangements for the project are summarized in a table below. All bidding
packages for goods financed by the Bank and estimated to cost over US$1.0
million equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documents, which cover most of the Bank-financed contracts. Items or groups
of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 could be procured on the basis of at
least three bids from qualified suppliers eligible under the guidelines in
accordance with limited international bidding procedures (LIB).



- 21 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ inillion equivalent) I.
Procurement method
Project element                     LCB        ICB        Other    NA          Total
Preparatory works                   26.9        -          -                   26.9
Resettlement                           -        -       138.3                 138.3
Civil and associated works             -     294.6         -                  294.6
(103.1)                         (103.1)
Cates, hoist., and cranes lb         15.3      5.8         -                   21.1
(1.5)                           (1.5)
Turbines Ic                          55.6     39.5         -                   95.1
(6.9)                           (5.9)
Cenerators /c                       48.7      35.9         -                   84.6
(4.1)                           (4.1)
Transformers, switchgear Id          13.5     46.2         -                   59.7
(5.8)                           (5.8)
Controls                                       5.0         -                    5.0
(0.7)                           (0.7)
Transmission line, etc. /b          46.8      38.5         -                   85.3
(7.3)                           (7.3)
Engineering                                -             27.4                  27.4
(9.2)                (9.2)
Administration, scudies & training  -           -          -       17.8        17.8
(1.4)      (1.4)
Total                         206.8    465.5       165.7      17.8      855.8
Trr-   (129.4)    -(9.2)    (I.4)    (140.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
proposed Bank loan.
/b   Materials (steet) to be imported by ICB; fabrication and supply by LCB.
7i   The first two units will be imported under ICB.  The remaining five units
will be procured through LCB but will not be financed by the Bank loan.
/d   500 kV equipment imported under ICB; rest through LCB.
75.       The Bank loan will be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the foreign
expenditures of directly imporLed equipment and materials; (b) 100I  of local
expenditures ex-iactory of locally manufactured items; (c) 75% of the cost of
other items procured locally; (d) 70% of total cost of main civil works pro-
cured through ICB; and (e) 100% of the cost of consulting services and over-
seas training. For expenditures relating to training and contracts for goods
and services each valued less than $200,000 equivalent, reimbursements will be
made on the basis of statements of expenditures. Documentation supporting
such expenditures need not be submitted to the Bank but should be retained in
the FPEPB project office in Fuzhou and made available for review by the Bank's
supervision missions. To facilitate disbursement, a special account with an



- 22 -
authorized allocation of $490 million (representing four months average
project expenditure.) wiLl be established in a bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Applications for replenishmenta wiLl be rntde
quarterly or when the Special Account is drawn down to 50Z of the initial
deposit, whichever occurs first. Retroactive financing will be permitted for
up to $10 million in expenditures incurred for the main civil works contract
prior to the date of loan signing but after December 1. 1986.
Planning, Accounting and Audit
76.       FPEPB works closely with H4WREP and the planning departments of the
Government of the Province of Fujian to develop its an.m;al r4d five-year
plans.  The plans are integrated with the national plans chrough MWREP and
approved by SPC.  The present system of planning does not inciude long-term
financial planning at the provincial power bureau level. In order to deal
with financial issues emerging with the ongoing reforms, FPEPB needs t; 4dopt
a systematic approach to planning its financial affairs.  The Bank has   I
furnished a financial forecasting model to FPEPB to enablo it to study thc-
impact of expansion plans and price variations on its future financial
positions.  At negotiations, assurances were obtained ftom FPEPB that by
December 31 of each year commencing December 31, 1987, VPEB will furnish to
the Bank a financial plan containing forecast income statenents, sources and
uses of funds, and balance sheets for the next five years.' An understanding
was reached at negotiations that FPEPB will furnish to the Bank financial
projections for an additional five years subsequent to the period of the
financial plans.
77.       FPEPB is a self-accounting entity reporting directly to MWREP.  The
bureau maintains its accounts on an accrual basis uaing A double entry system
and follows accournting procedures e3tablished by MOF. FPEPB's subordinate
units prepare accounting information monthly; the headquarters ctnsolidates
accounts monthly, quarterly and annually. All these are done tn a timely
manner.
78.       As with almost all Bank-financed projects in China, the Foreign
Investment Audit Bureau of the State Audit Administration (SMA) will be
responsible for auditing FPEPB's accounts. Actual audit work will be
conducted by the Fujian Provincial Audit Bureau, a subordinate organization of
SAA which was established in 1984. Assurances were obtained at negotiatiors
that FPEPB will furnish annual financial statements, certified by an accep-
table auditor, to the Bank within six months of the end of each financial
year.
Financial Position
79.       During the five-year period from 1981 through 1985, FPEPB's energy
sales increased by about 40% while revenues increased by about 48%. The ope-
rating ratio, which has previously remained reasonably constant at about 57%
increased to about 70% in 1984 and 1985. During the period, FPEPB realized an
average rate of return of about 13% based on historically valued average net
fixed assets in operation. Debt service coverage ratio has remained satisfac-
tory.



- 23 -
80.       During the period 1986-1995, the Fujian power system is projected to
maintain a high rate of growth. Up to 1988, FPEPB'u sales are projected to
grow at an annual rate of about 11.4%, and net fixed assets in operations are
expected to increase by 23% p.s. over the current level. However, during the
1989-1993 period, the bulk of projected increases in demand is expected to be
met by the Fuzhou Thermal Power Station (FTPS), a plant being built and
operated outside the jurisdiction of FPEPB. As a result, FPEPB is projected
to experience very little growth over the 1988 level. From 1994 on, FPEPB's
performance is expected to improve dramatically as the Shuikou project becomes
operational. Sales increase is expected to average at about 25% for 1994 and
1995. While financial indicators for the period 19B6-1995 continue to be
satisfactory, with rate of return and operating ratio averaging 9.4% and 69Z
respectively, and average revenue increasing from the 1986 level of
7.4 fen/kWh to 12 fen/kWh in 1995, FPEPB faces many uncertainties which might
prevent it from achieving these results. These include: (a) lack of experi-
ence and clear procedures for implementing power rate increases; (b) institu-
tional changes introduced through economic reform; and (c) arrangements yet to
be made for sales of Shuikou power to East China and for the operation of
FTPS.
81.       At negotiations, assurances were obtained from FPEPB that it will
take measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments, to ensure that
operating revenues are sufficient to meet the aggregate of its total operating
expenses and the amount by which its financial obligations exceed depreciation
and non-cash operating expenses. Assurances were also obtained that FPEPB
will incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its revenues and
expenditures indicates that its internal cash generation will provide a debt
service coverage of at least 1.3 times.
82.       Because the basis for FPEPB's purchase of FTPS vutput has not yet
been fully agreed and, sinilarly, a basis for the planned sales of Shuikou
power to the East China Electric Power Administration (ECEPA) - 86% of its
dependable capacity and 50% of the firm energy - has yet to be established,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that FPEPB wilt enter into and
implement power purchase and sales contracts with HIPDC and ECEPA satisfactory
to the Bank, and the Government will take all efforts necessary to enable
FPF?B, ECEPA, and HIPDC to enter into and to implement those contracts. An
un.erstanding was reached during negotiations on the principles of such
agreements.
Benefits and Risks
83.       The Shuikou Hydroelectric Project is intended to supply peaking
powex to the combined FCC and FPC, which serve the provinces of Fujian,
Zhejiang, Jiangsu and Anhui, and Shanghai Municipality. These areas consti-
tute one of the most important economic regions in China, acounting for about
29% of the country's industrial output. While these areas have experienced
rapid growth in recent years, the rate of growth has been increasingly limited
by a shortage of electricity.
84.       In the area to be served by the project, peak demand has grown at an
average rate of 8.0% p.a. between 1970 and 1985, and electric energy demand



- 24 -
rose by 9.0% p.a., over the same period, even though demand was suppressed due
to a shortage of generating capacity. Based on a reasonable load projection,
the peak demand and energy generation of ECG and FPC combined would increase
from 10,963 KW and 77,889 CWh in 1985 to 26,818 KW and 172,960 GWh in 1995,
which represents average annual growth rates of 9.4% and 8.3% respectively.
85.       ECG's long-term expansion strategy, developed through a comprehen-
sive program of studies over many years, is based on continued reliance on
coal shipped from northern China as the primary source of energy, and the
continuing development of the remaining hydropower sites in the region for
meeting peak loads. Shuikou is the only sizable hydro project with a geo-
graphically convenient location. A recent least ccst expansion study of the
ECG system, carried out by WREPERI, confirmed the optimality of ECG's develop-
ment strategy, and concluded that the commissioning of the Shuikou hydropower
project, with seven units of 200 MW each, would be justified at the earliest
practicable date in 1993/94. A supplementary study undertaken by ECHIDI
indicated that the next best alternative, which involves the development of a
pumped storage hydroelectric scheme, would only become competitive with the
Shuikou project at discount rates above 14.2%.
86.       The economic rate of return of the project was calculated using the
economic prices of inputs (shadow priced capital cost of generating plant,
associated transmission lines and resettlement, operation and maintenance
cost, and distribution cost) and valuing the output at the cost of providing
peak energy using the next best project -- the pumped storage scheme. On this
basis, the economic rate of return of the project is 15Z.
87.       The risks associated with most hydroelectric projects are uncertain-
ties in geological, hydrological and related aspects; they are minimal in this
case and further reduced by very extensive investigations and competent
engineering. The risk of delay in construction is inherent in a large project
such as Shuikou, but the concentration of main civil works into a single ICB
contract, facilitation of imports of all construction equipment and materials
in short supply in China, and arrangements made for effective construction and
contract supervision should keep them to a minimum. The progress of the
parallel railway relocation project requires careful observation and control
during the early years. If this work is executed on schedule, and financing
of the second phase of construction (from 1990 onwards) is ensured, the
project should not encounter any major difficulties during construction.
Environmental and Sociological Considerations
88.       There are no mineral resources, archaeological sites or artifacts of
significance in the reservoir area. No downstream degradation or serious
sedimentation problems are expected to result from the project.
89.       About 2,100 ha of farm land, 1,300 ha of forest land, and 700 ha of
reclaimed land will be inundated and 63,000 people will have to be resettled
due to the construction of the project.  The project contains a resettlement
component that will provide for the full economic and social reestablishment
of the affected population; this resettlement pLan was prepared by the
Government and has been appraised and found to be satisfactory to the Bank.



- 25 -
Under this component, financial resources are provided to compensate both
village entities and family units, so as to enable them to reconstruct their
settlements, productive assets and individual dwellings. The compensation
package is differentiated to meet the situations of various socio-economic
population subgroups, and takes into account land tenure patterns, types of
land use and soil quality. Sites have been identified and selected for all
the new villages, with due regard to availability of water, health conditions,
and proximity to agricultural fields. Connecting roads will be built wherever
necessary. Dwelling plots are allocated to each family. Dwelling designs are
open to choice and ne-; dwellings are usually planned to exceed the floor area
and amenities of prior dwellings.
90.       Agricultural redevelopment is the core of the resettlement compo-
nent. A diversified agricultural package was designed to restore the produc-
tive base of the relocated population. Availability of substitute lands was
ensured through systematic identification of large tracts of land currently
uncultivated but which have agricultural potential or are suitable for refor-
estation, and of suitable sites for implanting the new villages. The alterna-
tive agricultural packages envisaged under the project consist of different
mires of grain crops, vegetables, fruit trees, animal husbandry, fish ponds
and managed forests. In addition, a substantiaL development will be achieved
in fruit and tree planting, economic trees and in reforestation for timber.
91.       The timetable for population relocation out of the reservoir site is
synchronized with the dam construction schedule, the elevations of the flood
level behind the cofferdams and the main dam, the vertical distribution of
villages and the various infrastructural items in the reservoir area. The
timetable is designed to ensure a safe lead time over these deadlines, so as
not to impede construction progress.
92.       The implementation of the resettlement program will be the responsi-
bility of a recently established Resettlement Office under the provincial
government. This organization will cooperate closely with but will be
independent from SHPC. The Resettlement Office will also arrange for
reporting and monitoring of resettlement progress and of the restoration of
the productive base and welfare of the dislocated population. To assist in
the successful implementation of the resettlement program, assurances were
obtained from the Government during negotiations that it will carry out or
cause to be carried out the resettlement program in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
PART V - RECOKMENDATION
93.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
December 3, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-26 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page I of 3
Population    I  13,19 million (mid-1983)
CNP per capita: $300 (1983)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount - 1985                              Annual growth rates (I)
(militen USS at                      Actual                                       Projacted
Indicator                    current priees)/b 1980   1981   1982   1983   198        1985      198T     1987      1981    19B9       1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS /s
Gross domestic product          265,300        6.6    4.9    7.8    9.6   14.0       12.3      6.8      6.8        6.8     6.8       6.8
Agriculture                    81,710       -1.7    6.4   11.2    9.0   13.9       14.2      4.9      4.9        4.9     4.9       4.9
Industry                      133.985       12.3    2.3    7.3   11.4   16.6      15.0       7.7      7.7        7.7     7.7      7.7
Services                       49,010        8.2    8.9    3.3    6.5    7.7       10.0      7.9       7.9       7.9     7.9       7.9
Consumption                     175,780        9.1    5.2    5.9    9.0   12.5       12.5      8.9       7.4       7.4     7.4       7.1
Cross investment                102,100        1.3   -3.1   10.9   15.2   20.7      40.0       2.3      4.8        4.8     5.1       5.7
Exports of GNFS /s               27,582       17.8   16.7    0.6    9.5   13.0        5.0      8.9      8.8        5.8     8.8      8.8
imports of CNFS 7T;              40,158       16.1   -6.7   -5.7   28.1   25.9      60.1       0.0      5.8        5.9     6.0      6.2
Creos national savinga           90.110       -0.2    3.6   17.0   12.D   17.0      21.0       2.4       5.1       5.1     5.6      6.2
PRICES
GOP deflator (1980 - 100)                    100.0  101.8  101.7  102.9  107.6   313.1    110.7    124.7    131.0    137.5    144.4
Exchange rate (Yuan/US$)                      1.5O   1.70   1.89   1.98   2.32      2.95      3.45     3.70      3.70     3.70      3.70
Shsre of COP at mrket price. (Z)                    Average annuml increase (Z)
(at current prices)                           (at constant 1981 prices
1Y60   1970   1975   1980   1985    1990       1960-70  1970-75   97-8   1980-8   1986-89  198996
Cross domescic produc. /a        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         6.1       5.2      6.5       9.0      7.3      6.6
Agriculture                    23.0   35.0   32.8   32.0   30.8   31.3          6.7       3.4      3.3      10.1      5.0      4.8
Industry                       48.D   41.0   45.8   4B.0   47.1   49.9          7.8       7.5      9.9      9.4       8.6      7.4
Services                       29.0   24.0   21.4   20.0   21.1   18.8          3.4       4.5      5.4       6.6      8.2      7.5
Consumption                      62.4   70.8   69.1   71.3   66.1   69.3          6.1       4.7      6.4       8.1      8.4      6.8
Gross Investment                 37.8   29.2   31.1   30.0   38.4   30.9          9.5       6.9      9.7      11.3      5.1      6.1
Exports of GNFS                   4.8    2.8    5.3    7.1   10.4   10.0         -1.5      10.8      5.7      12.3      8.0      7.7
Imports of GNFS                   5.0    2.7    5.5    0.4   15.1   10.2          1.2      13.9     13.0      12.2      8.4      7.4
Gross national savings           37.7   29.2   30.9   28.9   33.9   30.7          9.1       6.7      7.2      14.0      4.8      6.2
As 2 of GDP
1957           1970            1980            1983           1985
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                     28.7            29.6            30.6           27.8            29.3
Current eKpenditures                                 15.1            15.7            23.1           21.6            21.5
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)                          +13.6           +13.9           +7.5            +6.2            +7.8
Capital expenditure                                  13.7            13.3            11.0            7.8             8.2
Foreign financing                                     0.7             n.a.           0.5             0.2             0.4
1960-70     1970-75      1975-80     1980-84      1984-89     1989-94
oTmER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                                  6.3          5.1         6.4           9.2        7.2          6.6
GCP per capits growth rate (2)                       3.5          2.9         5.2           7.9        6.1          5.5
Energy consumption growth rate (2)                  -0.3          9.2         5.8           4.1        5.3          4.8
ICDR                                                 3.3         4.7          5.1           3.8        4.0          4.6
Marginal savings rate                                0.4          0.4         0.3           0.3        0.2          0.3
Import elasticity                                    0.2         2.7          2.0           1.4        1.1          1.2
/a Date for 1981 and 1982 are from different sources: data for 1982 exclude re-exports.
East Aaia and Paciftc Regional Office
August 15, 1986



- 27 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 21 of' 3
Population     :  1,019 million (mid-1983)
CNP per captta:  5300 (1983)
CHINA - EXTERNAL T'RADF
Amount - 1985                   Annutli growtlh rates (CE  (Ct conntaint prlcem) lb
(ml llion IJS9 at                                 Actuln                               Pra
current prices)          1980      1981       1982      1983     19114      1985     TiT
EXTERNAL TRADE /a
Merchandlse eitportoi                         25,108               14.8      17.3       5.5      10.1      In.4       0.4       8.7
Primary                                    13,7h2                1.5      -1.4        3.9      14.6       9.6      22.3       6.8
Manufactiures                               1,346                32.2      16.2       6.6       7.0      11.1    -I3.n       10.4
Murchandine imports                           38,231                6.8       7.2       0.2      29.7      22.3      44.9       h.2
Food                                         3,174               9.1      hH.3      42.9    -30.9    -24.9    -46.5           7.1
PetrolaLmM                                     152              52.6    -65.5      130.0    -43.5       30.8       20.4      35.5
Machinery and rquipment                     14,790               16.4      19.0    -41.7       34.7      H2.1      73.4       S.,
Others                                     21,915                0.9    -13.5         7.1      71.7      16.8      36.4       6.3
PRICES
Export price tndex (1980"100)                                     100.0    1112.7      98.7      88.8      90.5      83.b    126.0
Import price Index (1980-100)                                     100.0    3tl4.5     89.2       76.?      18.4      75.1     112.0
Termn  of trade index (i980-100)                                  100.0      9e.3    130.7      115.8    115.4      111.3     112.5
Composition of merchandise trade (2)                       Averiage ainnUnI increase (Z)
(at current pricen)                                  (at constant prices)
1978         L981         1985         1990       1980-84             198_8-9              1989-94
Exports                           100.0         100.0        100.0       100.0         30.8                 7.9                  7.6
Primary                          53.4         46.6          54.8        42.1         6.7                  6.4                  h.1
Manufactures                     46.6          53.4         45.2        57.9         15.2                 9.4                  8.2
Imports                           100.0         100.0        100.0       100.0         14.9                 8.5                  7.5
Food                             12.8          17.4          3.6         9.7         13.9                 8.9                  8.5
Petroleum                         0.5          0.4           0.4         0.9         13.0                17.2                 16.1
Machinery and equipment           18.9         29.2         38.7        33.3         23.6                12.0                  6.8
Others                           67.9          53.0         57.3        56.1        20.5                  6.7                  7.5
Share of trade with           Share of trade with           Share of trade with
industrial                    developing                   the USSR and
cotintries (2)                countrtes (2)              Eastern Europa (Z)
1977      1980      1983     1977       1980      1983      1977      3980      19H3
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                        36.4      44.7     42.1       46.8      48.7      53.2      16.8       6.6       4.7
Imports                                       63.1      73.6      69.0      20.7       19.7      24.5      16.2       6.7       6.5
In  Based on cuscosm statistics.  Exports, f.o.h.. imports. f.o.b.
lb Growths In 1985 of itemized exports and imports are prelitmnary estimates.
East A.st and Pacific Regional Of fice
August 15, 1986



- 2S -                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
Population     :1,019 million (mid-1913)
CNP per capita:  $300 (1983)
CHINA - HALANCF OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND PENT
(Nillions of US$ at cirrent prices)
Actual                                     Prolected
tudicator                                        197R    1979    1980    19R1         1982        19R3       19i6        I985      19i
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor services  10,370  14,983  20,324  24,423    23,637    23,116    26,716                27,585  5,590
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b. /a            9,6n?  13,658  18,492  22,027    21,125    20,707    23.905            25.108   52,130
Imports of goods and nonfactor services  11,668  17,759  24,058  23,446    18,900    20,71I    26,748                40,290   63,180
Of which:  Merchandtse F.o.b. Ia           In,745  16,212  22,049  21,047    16,876    11,717    23.89f            31,231   565,950
Net factor income from abroad                     -8     -77    -117    -2no          452      1,253       1,620         413      -R50
Nat transfers                                    517      656     640      464         530        436        304         171       300
Current account halance                        -709  -2,197  -3,211    1,241        5,719      4,164       1,892    -11,989   -5,140
Private direct investment (net)                    -        -       57     265        430         636      1,10n       1,058    1,950
official grant mid (net)                           -        -       21      156       -44          75        137          72       140
MLT loans (net)                                  549   3,8I5   1,069       310        3nl         927      -145        3,269    4,450
Disbirsements                                 549   3,895   1,670   1,659         2,481      1,600        718       s,016    6,390
AmortfzatIon                                    -       80      601   1,34R       2,1A0        673        863          996    1,940
Other capital /b                                42B  -1,021   2,455        -47       -125    -1,672    -2,R89          2,239         -
Change in reRerves
('-" indienting tncrpase)                     78R    -597    -391  -I,925    -6,291    -4,130             -95       4,6O0   -1,40(l
Internattonal reserves                        6,677   7,274   7,665   9,590    15,881    20,nil    20,106             15,506   23,5n0
nf which:  Cold Ic                          5,12n   5,120   5,120   5,12n         5,120      5,120      5,120       5,120    5,120
Reserves as months of imports                    6.2     4.5      3.5      4.1       10.1        11.7        .1         4.5       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /d
Cross dtsbursement                                ..
Official Rrants                                     .
Concessional loans                                  .
DAC
IDA
Other
Nonconcesulonal loans
Official export credits
[MRD B
Other multilateral                                                      .
Private                                      ..       ..       ..
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                549   4,366   5,433   5,261           6.5        6.9        7.5        11.6
Offici-l                                               .       ,...   .                                             4.7
Private                                      ..       ..       ..       ..         ..         ..         ..         6.9
Undishuraed debt                                                          ..
Debt service
Total service payments                          .        ..      ..
Interest                                               .
Payments as Z of exports                      0.4      2.7      6.1    9qn         11.4        4.9        5.0          ..R
Average interest rate of new loans (2)             -
Average maturity of new loans (years)              -        -       -        - 
/a  Data for 1978-81 are not comparable with those of 1982-85 because of a difference in their sources.  The latter exclude
re-exports.
/b  Includes net use of IMF credit and net flow of short-term capital.
T7 Valued at US$402/troy ounce.
Ti  Excludes short-term loans (one year or less).
East Asia and Pacific Regtonal Office
August 15, 1986



- 29 -                                           ANNEX I I
STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A.  STATEMENT OF SANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of Septmber 30, 1986)
Loan or                                                                                       USs million
Credit                                                                               Amount (leanr  cancellatlona)
Number    Year         Snrrower                Purpose                               fank     IDA    Undisburaed/a
2021/t167    1981  People's Republic of Chin.  University Developmnt                    100.0    100.0          0.8
1261    1982  People's Republic of China  North China Plain Agriculture              -       60.0        14.1
2207    19R2  People's Republic of China  Three Ports                              69.0        -         20.5
1297    1982  People's Republic of China  Agric. Education 6 Research                -       75.4        16.5
2226/1313    1982  People'a Republic of China  Induatrial Credit                         60.6      30.0        19.0
2231    1963  People's Republic of China  Daqing Petroleum                        162.4        -         63.6
2252    1983  People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum              100.        -         63.1
2261/1347    1983  People'a Republic of China  Heilongjiang Land Reclamation             25.3      45.0        17.5
1411    1983  Peopla's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University                  -       85.0        39.9
1412    1983  Peoplc-a Republic of China  Technieal Cooperation                      -       10.0         1.9
1417    1984  People's Republic of Chnas  Rubber Development                         -      100.0        47.9
2382    1984  People'. Republic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                    145.4        -         94.1
2394    1984  People's Republic of China  Railway                                 220.0        -         67.8
1462    1984  People's Republic of Chins  Rural Credit                               -       50.0        29.1
1472    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Medical Educ.               -       85.0        48.8
2426    1984  People's Republic of China  Itaramay Petroleun                       99.5        -         67.3
2434/1491    1984  People-s Republic of China  Second IndustriaL Credit                 105.0      70.0        71.5
2464/1500    1984  People"s Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education             45.3      23.5        28.2
1516    1984  People'a Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research               -       25.0        15.0
1551    1985  People'a Republic of China  Second Universtty Development              -      145.0       164.6
Z493    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Power                            117.0        -         98.3
2501    1985  People's Republic of China  Changcun (Luau) Coal Mining             126.0        -        122.8
1557    1985  People'a Republic of China  Seeds                                      -       40.0        40.6
1578    1985  People-a Republic of China  Rural Water Supply                         -       80.0        73.3
2539/1594    1985  People's Republic of China  Highway                                   42.6      30.0       67.3
2540    1965  People's Republic of China  Second Railway                          235.0        -        229.2
2541    1985  People's Republic of China  Fertilizer Rehabilitation and            97.0        -         93.2
Energy Saving
1605    1985  People's Republic of China  Forestry Develapment                       -       47.3        52.5
2579/1606    1985  People's Republic of China  Pishihang-Chsohu Area Development  17.0            75.0        103.1
2580    1985  People's Republic of China  Weiyuan Gas Field Technical              25.0        -         23.0
assistance
1642    1986  People's Republic of China  Second Rural Credit                        -       90.0        92.6
2659/1663    1986  People's Republic of China  Third Industrial Credit                   75.0     25.0        94.4
1664    1986  People's Republic of China  Second Technical Cooperation               -       20.0        20.1
1671    1986  Peoples Republic of China  Provincial Universities                     -      120.0        13.1
2678/1680/b  1986  People'a Republic of China  Third Railway                            160.0     70.0       236.5
26897F  1986  People's Republic of China  Tianjin Port                            130.0        -        130.0
16897f  1986  People's Republic of China  Freshwater Fisheries                       -       60.0        63.1
2706    1986  People's Republic of China  Beilungang Thermal Power                225.0        -        225.0
2707    1986  People"a Republic of China  Yantan Hydroelectric                     52.0        -         52.0
2708    1986  People'a Republic of China  Linodong Bay Petroleum Appralnal   30.0              -         30.0
2723/1713/b  1986  People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Prev. Ned.                 15.0     65.0        84.4
17377Th  1986  People's Republic of China  Red Soils                                 -       40.0        41.3
Total                                                                                2,459.9  1,666.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                       2,459.9  1,666.2
Total Undisbursed                                                                     1,783.0  1,214.0    2,997.0
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as ot September 30, 1986)
Amount in USS million
Year    Obligor                                       Type of business                 Loan     Euiuty      Total
1985    Guangzhou and Peugeot Automobile Co.          Automobile                         15.0       2,0       17.0
Total Cross Comitments                                                                   15.0       2.0        17.0
Less cancellations, terminations,
repavent and sales
Total Commitments nov held by IFC                                                        15.0       2.0        17.0
Total Undisbursed                                                                        15.0       2.0        17.0
/a  As credits are denominated in SDRs (since IDA Replenishment VI), undisbursed SDR credit balances are con-
verted to dollars at the current exchange rate between the dollar and the SDR.  In some cases, therefore,
the undisbursed balance indicates a dollar amount greater than the original principal credit amount
expressed in dollars.
lb Not yet effective.
Notes: The status of the projects listed In Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA finan-
cial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 30 -                             ANNEX III
CHINA
SHUIKOU HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events 
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:    5 years
(b)  The project was prepared by:                        FPEPB and ECHIDI
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:             July 1980
(d)  Date of first mission to consider the project:   February 1981
(e)  Appraisal mission:                                  February 1986
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                         November 1986
(g)  Planned loan effectiveness:                         Harch 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government will take all steps necessary to ensure that the
permanent railway relocation shall be carried out in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices and completed in a timely manner
in meeting the Shuikou project schedules (para. 67);
Cb)  FPEPB will prepare annual maintenance programs and undertake
periodic inspections of the dam and associated works using indepen-
dent experts satisfaccory to the Bank (para. 68);
Ic) FPEPB will continue to employ: (a) consultants for design and
supervision of construction; and (b) a Special Board of Consultants
for review of designs and construction during the period of
construction (para. 68).
(d) FPEPB will carry out studies in accordance with terms of reference
and timing agreed with the Bank and training in accordance with a
program satisfactory to the Bank (para. 69).
(e) FPEPB will take measures, including but not limited to tariff
adiustments to ensure that its operating revenues are sufficient to
cover its operational requirements (para. 81);
(f) FBEPB will incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of
its revenues and expenditures indicates that its internal cash
generation will provide a debt service coverage of at least 1.3
times (para. 81);
(g) FPEPB will enter into power purchase and sales contracts with HIPDC
and ECEPA satisfactory to the Bank, and the Government will take all
efforts necessary to enable FPEPB, ECEPA and HIPDC to enter into and
implement those contracts (para. 82); and
(h) The Government will carry out or cause to be carried out a resettle-
ment program satisfactory to the Bank (para. 92).



IBRD  19561
0.4inli.)2                                                                                            122-                IZI'
-f        z         l^lit< '                                             .!. .........rtNEVAJ  C H I N A
34-0                                           AW ''             ,,.'SHUIKOU HYDRO-ELECTRIC PROJECT ,,
Link With East China Grid
HAIMIAE
1570V..                                                                                             UNDEr.   ruiuinr
I                      IS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    r.~~~~~~~xmiwapu coNBhSSucIION rniirci  vMOnasc
I .                                                                             - ~--          500kV Transmmlsion Linns
I                    r                                                               -         r.       A         A   500 kV Subslai*ons
/  .-'rt.t                                            0                  0 -  *        Thermal Powmr Planis
I  Xt\*'*                                                        -                 m   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hydra  oa Picnin
Ir             ;        \                        \J I A  N  G  S U                                                    Nucloar Powor Plant
--l -   . ' ';    Hgqbu  .   / f   \    b  \\                                                          Rivers
NP r;' r-   '                         - t)   ) g                                                 - -   -  Province Boundaries
J
32                 UNil  rANM'SjQ..5w                                                        f~3.
12   KAHU \'-t  \jd                                      'l
\iii.         '. *vn b:,- ,1                                                *- P1
WA N'6r            S'HANGHAI SHI
0S  z                              .                              MOSI'MN ST#,lS2-s,^.wc40 !Efl F Mit /1ajSOMW&fW ua "4W,
Nso.W .en ,9 u,,.                                                                      2A'AUCISdA6AEiftcME
ShJae        (   - IvZHA  G   NSHI 2MW2
1.7"mw/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~QWfI,175   W
fOJVCs Nu \        (      \                A~~~~~SI4ANGHAI - MI;N0t5lAi  5VJWMWJ1
* _t,/'!'  r u-r <                  |                              JfNSHAN I;PSSMW)J
Anq.r-e             D .'15 MWI                                           - ,
-~~~~~~~~.   .                                      4HANG2ZHOU
B AhZJSM p 0HangeIeou
_"Ii NHAI f.?'.M M30
N                                               A UCtUAuA NVr
-'h                                  A"'      -. _               972M
IUNAN/JA IW
29-                                                         JINIlJA      Z H E J I A N G
"-UOANC                                              0  hrnroU 1250 I   WJ
J I A  N  C) X I                 s  
4WI
2x,_   /!17e MW)
2                    MI                                                           I                           28I
/   (   . \   /                                                          kiloneters
4'                        (                                          N'
FUJ I A N
w27 /'  \                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27'
Th. *e *lean. fe 1_ri by
Ira n R enas F.r
-NSHA                                      TIANX1KOtI !mars Fuzhou                                                           e bG U_SAth.
H!TAN                   eNnng            (239                                                                        sick. teea'Th twM&
(100mw)                                                                                                                - "be. wmaThe.i re--ect
CeaoMa fle dte.te.eabt
pu el fit. Wond 8we seed h.
ANSHA                             SHiWIJCoV    Faneuzhou
StMWP                              f1400 MWJ                                    :                                    f V      a WV
-1tsr      -           ; lt8'              itg- 120                                   121'                  1227
APRIL 1986



