RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                     Report No. P-452
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR THE WESTERN NIGERIA ROAD PROJECT
September 16, 1965



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR THE WESTERN NIGERIA ROAD PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
of $14.5 million to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for a road construction
project and improvement in Wlestern Nigeria.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        Nigeria has received four Bank loans, totalling $153.5 million, and
two IDA credits, totalling $35.5 million.  In addition, a report and recom-
mendation on a proposed Bank loan of $17.5 million for the Apapa Road Project
has been circulated simultaneously. The first loan signed in 1958 before
Nigeria became independent, carries the guarantee of the United Kingdom. The
status of these loans at August 31, 1965 was as follows:
Amount
equivalent
No.                 Borrower                Purpose         in $ million
193 UNI (1958)  Federation of Nigeria      Railways                 28.0
326 UNI (1962) Nigerian Ports Authority    Port extension and
improvement            13.5
372 UNI (1964) Electricity Corporation     Electricity trans-
of Nigeria                 mission lines          30.0
383 UJNI (196h) Niger Dams Authority       Kainji Hydro-electric
project                82.0
153.5
of which has been repaid      3.6
Total now outstanding       149.9
Amount sold or agreed to be sold    12.5
of which has been repaid           3.6     8.9
1Ll.o
As of August 31, 1965, $99.2 million was undisbursed, including $20.2 million
of loan 372 UNI and $73.1 million of loan 383 UNI.
3.        The two IDA credits were granted for school construction and equip-
ment in the Federal Territory and the Regions ($20 million) and for a road
project in the Northern Region ($15.5 million). The Development Credit Agree-
ment for the road project was declared effective on August 31; the Development
Credit Agreement for the education project is expected to become effective
shortly.



PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE LOAN
4. Borrower:                        Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Amount:                         The equivalent in various currencies of
$14.5 million.
Purpose:                        To meet the foreign exchange cost of road
construction and improvement in Wiestern
Nigeria, consultants' services and procure-
ment of road maintenance equipment and
spare parts.
Amortization:                   In 40 semi-annual installments beginning
January 15, 1971 and ending July 15, 1990.
Interest Rate:                  5-1/2% p.a.
Commitment Charge:              3/8 of 1% p.a.
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROJECT
5.        A report "Appraisal of a Road Project" (Western Road Project) Nigeria
(TO-490a) is attached.
6.        Western Nigeria has about 8,600 miles of roads, of which about 30%
are paved. About 600 miles of these roads are Trunk Roads "A", the costs of
construction and maintenance of which are the responsibility of the Federal
Government with the Regional Government's Ministry of Works acting as Execut-
ing Agencies. They link the Federal and Regional capitals, the ports and
their hinterlands, and Nigeria with her neighbors. A second category of roads,
called Trunk Roads "B", are built and maintained by the Roads and Bridges
Division of the Ministry of Works and Transport in Western Nigeria. The main
function of these roads is to connect provincial and district headquarters,
large towns and centers of production and trade with the trunk "A" system,
the railway or the ports.
7.        The Government of Western Nigeria has realized that a program for
the improvement of the Trunk Roads "B" is needed not only to remedy the
existing situation but to plan for the future. The Bank is acting as Execut-
ing Agency for a United Nations Special Fund grant to help the Government in
the preparation of further road development programs and which includes the
preliminary engineering of 300 miles of priority roads.
8.        With the assistance of the consultants who undertook the final
engineering of the roads, the Ministry of Works and Transport of the Gov-
ernment of Western Nigeria has prepared a program of road construction and
improvement, which will be the first road project financed by the Bank/IDA
in the region. The project includes:



(a) the reconstruction and improvement of the following roads
totalling in all about 95 miles:
(i) Ijebu-Ode - Idi-Ayunre
(ii) Ife-Cndo
(iii)  Ondo-Ore
and access roads to the foregoing.
(b) A plan for the improvement and strengthening of the maintenance
operation of the Roads and Bridges Division of the Ministry of
Works and Transport.
9.        The total cost of the construction works is estimated to be $17.0
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of $11.0 million
equivalent (about 65%). The proposed loan would cover the foreign exchange
costs and the Government of Western Nigeria has undertaken to meet the re-
maining costs from its own resources. The Federal Government has undertaken,
if need arises, to make available funds to the Regional Government for car-
rying out the project. Construction will be carried out by pre-qualified
contractors chosen after international competitive bidding. Independent
outside consultants, whose foreign exchange costs have been included in the
proposed loan, will supervise the execution of the project works on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and to the Regional Government.
10.       The project provides, in addition, for consultants' services (a)
to carry out the final engineering of about 300 miles of highest priority
roads for which preliminary surveys and engineering are being financed by
a grant-aided United Nations Special Fund highwTay feasibility study; and
(b) to assist the Roads and Bridges Division of the Ministry of Works and
Transport in the reorganization of maintenance operations with special
emphasis on preparing a road inventory.
11.       Finally, the project includes $2.2 million for financing the foreign
exchange cost of additional maintenance equipment and spare parts for the
linistry of Works and Transport of Western Migeria.
12.       The provisions for consultants' services and maintenance equipment
total $3.5 million, which, together with $11.0 million for the construction
works (including a 150 contingency allowance), make up the $14.5 million of
the proposed loan.
13.       The three roads included in the project carry between 700 and 1,000
vehicles a day. Poor alignments and short sight distances are hazardous and
reconstruction of the roads to modern standards has become a matter of great
urgency. Considerable benefits are expected to come from the project through
lower transportation costs. At the same time, by including the consultants'
services in the proposed Bank loan, the project will assist the Government
of Western Nigeria in planning a sound road development program in the years
ahead and in carrying out the reorganization of maintenance operations within
the Ministry of Works and in making the road inventory.  The project is ex-
pected to be completed in 3-1/2 years.



- 4 -
PART IV - TIE ECOUI CY OF HIGERIA
14.       A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Eigeria", (AF-31a) was circulated to the Executive Directors on Decer-iber
21, 1964 (IDA/R64-41). Comments on the current econoric situation in
Nigeria are contained in my report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the Apapa Road Project in Nigeria (P-451) of Sepuember 16, 1965.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUTME1TS AND ALUTIIORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank has been circulated separately. It contains, in addition to
the provisions usually included in the form of agreement used by the Bank
for projects of this type, a covenant that the Borrower shall relend the
proceeds of the loan to Western Nigeria on the basis of an agreement between
the Borrower and Western Nigeria satisfactory to the Bank (Section 5.02(a)).
An additional condition of the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement is that the
Borrower and W1estern Nigeria shall have entered into such an agreerent (Sec-
tion 7.01 (b)). The draft Project Agreement between Western Nigeria and the
Bank, which has also been circulated, is substantially in the form used by
the Bank for projects of this type.
16.       Also being distributed separately is the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agree2m1ent
of the Bank.
PART VI - COMPLIaNCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREENMT
17.       I am satisfied that thle proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOiMERDATION
18.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following resolu-
tion:
RESOLVED:
THSAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Federal Republic of
Nigeria, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million five hundred thousand United States dollars (U.S. $14,500,000,
to mature on and prior to July 15, 1990, to bear interest at the rate
of five and one-half percent (5-1/2%) per annum and to be upon such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement
(Western Road Project) between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and
the Bank and the form of Project Agreement (Western Road Proje,ct) be-
tween Western Nigeria and the Bank, which have been presentod to this
meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
September 16, 1965



