Document of
PILE COpy                        The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2080-WA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND OF
THE INTERNATT ONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO REGIE DES CHEMINS DE FER ABIDJAN-NIGER (RAN)
TO BE GUARANTEED BY THE
REPUBLICS OF THE IVORY COAST AND UPPER VOLTA
AND A CREDIT TO UPPER VOLTA
FOR A
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT IN THE IVORY COAST AND UPPER VOLTA
September 29, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00               -  CFAF 245
CFAF I million        - US$4,081.63
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric
Metric                      US Equivalents
1 meter (m)              -  3.28 feet (ft)
I cubic meter (m3)       -  35.29 cubic feet (cu/ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2 -   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km ) -  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)           -  2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)     -  2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
EIB       -    European Investment Bank
FED       -    Fonds European de Development
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -    Gross National Product
IDA       -    International Development Agency
MP&RS     -    Motive Power and Rolling Stock Department
OP        -    Operations Department
OCAM      -    Organisation Commune des Etats Africains et Malgache
pass-km   -    Passenger-kilometers
P-K       -    Point Kilometrique (distance from Abidjan)
RAN       -    Regie des Chemins de fer Abidjan-Niger
SWLHT     -    Sleeping-Cars and Hotels Department
S&T       -    Signalling & Telecommunications Service
t-km      -    Ton-kilometers
T&W            Track & Work Department
TD        -    Training Department



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger (RAN) (for a Bank
loan of US$23.0 million).
Guarantors:    The Republic of the Ivory Coast would guarantee the full
loan amount. In addition, about US$6 million would also be
guaranteed, jointly and severally, by the Republic of
Upper Volta.
Terms:         17 years, including 4 years' grace period, with an interest
rate of 8 percent per annum.
Borrower:      The Republic of Upper Volta.
(for an IDA credit of US$5.2 million).
Terms:         Standard IDA terms.
Project
Description:   The project would cover priority items of the 1978-79 portion
of RAN's 1977-1982 investment plan. It would primarily consist
of track realignment and renewal of track material in the Ivory
Coast; track improvement in Upper Volta; procurement of loco-
motives; freight cars and track maintenance equipment, pro-
vision of training facilities and consulting services for
technical training and management improvement and to carry out
feasibility studies.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
(in US$ millions)
Total          %
Local                   net of     Foreign
Cost      Foreign       Taxes      Exchange
I. Realignment of the
Bouake-Petionara Section       5.2         12.6        17.8         71
II.  Track Renewal in the
Ivory Coast                    0.1          1.3         1.4         75
III. Track Improvement in
Upper Volta                    1.6          3.2         4.8         67
IV.  Track Maintenance
Equipment                       -           1.5         1.5        100
V.  210 Box Cars                    -           9.5         9.5         100
VI.  18 Mainline Locomotives         -          12.4        12.4         100
VII.  Training                       0.3          1.1         1.4          79
VIII.  Consulting Services            0.2          1.0         1.2          83
IX.  Feasibility Studies             -           0.3         0.3         100
X.  TOTAL BASE COST                7.4         42.9        50.3          85
XI.  Contingencies                  2.6         10.3        12.9          80
XII.  GRAND TOTAL 1/                10.0         53.2        63.2          84
1/   Not including US$3.0 million for interest during the construction period.



Financing Plan
US$ million (net of taxes)
IBRD                                 23.0
IDA                                   5.2
CIDA                                 29.2
Government of Ivory Coast             4.3
Government of Upper Volta             0.6
RAN                                   3.9
TOTAL                         66.2
Estimated Disbursements:
(in US$ millions)
FY78    FY79     FY80    FY81
Loan:    Yearly                         8.4     8.9     4.2     1.5
Accumulated                   8.4     17.3    21.5    23.0
Credit:  Yearly                         2.8     1.6     0.8
Accumulated                   2.8      4.4     5.2
Economic Rate
of Return:      The overall economic rate of return for the project is about
23 percent.
Appraisal
Report:         No. 1478-WA of October 11, 1977.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
REGIE DES CHEMINS DE FER ABIDJAN - NIGER (RAN) TO BE
GUARANTEED BY THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST AND, IN PART,
BY THE REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA AND A CREDIT TO UPPER VOLTA
FOR A REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT IN THE IVORY COAST AND UPPER VOLTA
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed loan
to RAN and a proposed credit to the Government of Upper Volta for the equiv-
valent of US$23.0 million and US$5.2 million respectively, to help finance
a regional railway project serving both the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta.
The proposed loan to RAN would be guaranteed by the Government of the Ivory
Coast. About US$6.0 million of the loan would also be guaranteed jointly
and severally by the Government of Upper Volta. The loan would be for a
term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8 percent per
annum. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms. US$3.1 million
of the proceeds would be passed on to RAN in the form of a grant. The bal-
ance of US$2.1 million would be onlent to RAN on the same terms as the pro-
posed Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Ivory Coast 1/
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast:   A Basic Economic Report" was
circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977. Its principal findings and
conclusions are incorporated in the following paragraphs. Annex I(a) provides
basic country data.
Past Performance
3.        Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a high
annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period and the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1976,
per capita income reached US$610, one of the highest in Africa. The good
overall performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 15 years has resulted
from a combination of the following factors: (i) large agricultural potential
and early identification by the Ivorian community of the best opportunities
for developing this potential; (ii) liberal Government policies vis-a-vis pri-
vate capital inflows as well as importation of foreign labor and managerial
talent; and (iii) generally adequate public finance performance and avail-
ability of external aid.
1/   Substantially identical with President's Report No. P-2055a-IVC for
the Ivory Coast Secondary Centers' Water Supply Project.



- 2 -
4.        Although the country has large mineral deposits which may become
commercially exploitable in the early 1980's, the contribution of the mining
sector to economic growth has so far been negligible. On the other hand,
favorable ecological conditions in the southern region have given Ivory Coast
a clear comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (particularly
cocoa and coffee) for export and in the exploitation of timber resources.
From the early years of independence, the efforts of the Government and the
agricultural community were concentrated on the agricultural and forestry
sector. Large investments were made in transport infrastructure to open up
new forestry and agricultural areas, and in agricultural research programs.
Price and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic small-holder
sub-sector has responded well. Government-owned large-scale plantations with
outgrower components were developed for oil and coconut palm. Rapid growth
has been achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple, palm and coconut
oil, cocoa and coffee, for the last two of which, Ivory Coast is now the
third largest producer in the world.
5.        Another important contributing factor to the country's economic
growth has been the Government's open-door policy towards foreign private
investment and foreign labor at all skill levels. The prevailing political
stability, combined with the free transferability of profits and capital,
has created an aura of confidence abroad which provided access to foreign
capital. However, the necessary technical skills to assure the planned
development were lacking in the country, and the Ivorian community appears
to have accepted and welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and
technical assistance which rapid growth required. A member of the franc
area and a strong supporter of monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory
Coast has always been willing to welcome new regional institutions; it
joined the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and has
recently helped promote the CIMAO project, which is the first regional
industrial undertaking involving both French- and English-speaking countries
in West Africa. An important feature of this cooperation with neighboring
countries, which has been beneficial to all parties concerned, is the large
influx of unskilled labor from less well-endowed Sahelian countries, parti-
cularly Upper Volta and Mali. In 1976, the foreign population of the Ivory
Coast (mainly non-Ivorian Africans) was estimated at 2 million, i.e. close
to 30 percent of the country's total of 7 million inhabitants.
6.        The success of the Ivorian economy is further attributable to gen-
erally sound Government policies regarding public finance and external aid.
The public sector generated savings which, after debt service, financed about
50 percent of the public investment program in the 1960-70 period. At the
same time, the country was able to mobilize considerable financial assis-
tance from abroad, so that by the end of 1975, total external public debt
stood at US$1.5 billion and reached US$2.2 billion at the end of 1976.
Recent Development Issues
7.        The economic performance of the Ivory Coast in recent years has
been good. To maintain this momentum and help broaden the access to the



- 3 -
benefits derived from it, the Government will need to persevere with exist-
ing policies designed to diversify the economic base, improve income distri-
bution and increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the management
of its economy. Current Government policies are directed with some success
to protecting the export-oriented economy against fluctuations in world
market prices, and to promoting more balanced regional development. Agri-
culture remains the most important sector, but the share of manufacturing
in GDP has increased from 4 percent in 1960 to 14 percent in 1974. Within
agriculture, the production of new crops such as bananas, pineapples, rubber,
cotton, coconut and palm oil has been developed, resulting in a decline of
the share of cocoa and coffee in agricultural exports from 72 percent in
1960 to 43 percent in 1975. As part of a more balanced regional development
policy, large infrastructure investments are under way in the Southwest in
an effort to develop access to that potentially rich region.
8.        Better income-earning opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the North following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of
ox-drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved
by increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage poli-
cies which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment
programs. As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years,
with the poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20
percent of total income.
9.        Progress in "ivorianization" of capital and labor remains limit-
ed. While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign owner-
ship is still important in forestry, industry, and modern commerce. However,
education and training are given very high priority in the allocation of
Government resources; the employment potential of the informal sector is
increasingly recognized and the Government is sponsoring a variety of
programs designed to promote the development of small-scale industrial and
commercial enterprises.
10.       These new directions of Ivorian economic policies are, however,
being implemented at some cost. The development of new products, new
sectors, and new regions is more expensive with decreasing returns on in-
vestments. For example, agricultural diversification is being extended to
crops with lower comparative advantage: forest reserves may be depleted in
ten to fifteen years unless costly reforestation programs are started; the
best opportunities for import substitution in industrial development are
becoming exhausted; heavy infrastructure and productive investments in
the potentially rich but sparsely populated Southwest yield initially low
returns; large programs to improve living conditions in the North and other
poor rural areas involve long gestation periods; and finally the direct and
indirect costs of foreign production factors are increasing. Thus terms of
trade are deteriorating. The terms and conditions of external public debt
are also hardening with the grant element of public foreign capital which
declined from 29 percent in 1969 to 10 percent in 1975.



-4-
Prospects
11.       In spite of these problems, medium- and long-term prospects of
the Ivorian economy remain favorable and an annual rate of growth of about
6 percent is a feasible objective, provided the Government becomes more
selective in determining investment priorities and continues to improve
the mobilization of domestic and external resources.
12.       The economy has considerable potential for further development of
traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial investments have
been made, output of new products and development of new regions will start
to yield substantial benefits, and can later be expanded at reasonable
economic cost. The Government is planning to review the system of protec-
tion and tax holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-substitution
industries, and there is scope for expansion of export-oriented processing
of local raw materials. Finially, many aspects of the country's policies
of income distribution (preference for the family-size farm, programs to
increase agricultural productivity, in the North, promotion of the informal
sector and of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises) are fully
compatible with sustained economic growth.
13.       A new Five-Year Development Plan (1976-80) has recently been
published. The program provides for further increasing in production in the
developed regions, developing agriculture in poor savannah areas, accelera-
ting the opening up of the Southwest, diversifying production in agriculture
and industry, implementing large iron-ore mining and paper pulp projects,
and improving the quantity and quality of services in rural and urban areas.
Preliminary cost estimates indicate that implementation of the proposed pro-
gram would involve an increase in the level of investment from 23 percent
of GDP during 1971-75 to about 30 percent during 1976-80. This is somewhat
ambitious though achievable target, particularly in view of the large sur-
pluses accumulated in the coffee and cocoa stabilization fund in 1976 and
1977. Earnings of the stabilization fund are expected to decline sharply as
coffee and cocoa prices return to more normal levels by 1980. Despite this
extraordinary rise in domestic public savings available for investment, new
foreign borrowing mainly from commercial banks rose by 47 percent in 1976 and
continued to rise as sharply in the first half of 1977 according to prelimi-
nary reports. This rise in external commitments coupled with increased pub-
lic investment spending from expanded domestic resources could well cause
the five-year plan to exceed even the revised plan investment targets of
30 percent of GDP.
14.       To avoid the internal distortions and balance of payments conse-
quences of this situation as well as to stay with a reasonable ratio of public
debt service to exports of goods and services by 1980, the authorities are
engaged in a review of new commitments to be undertaken during the remaining
three years of the plan, 1978-80. The aim is to carry out as much as possi-
ble of high-priority plan targets while achieving an external debt structure
consistent with the medium-term balance of payments prospects of the economy.



- 5-
15.       Adjusting the plan would involve cutting back on borrowing from
the international banking system while financing a greater share of the
unfunded part of the current five-year plan from public savings and foreign
multilateral and bilateral aid agencies. Assuming these aims are met, the
debt service ratio would not be expected to exceed 18 percent by 1980.
16.       The balance of payments situation was affected by the increase
in oil prices and the recent recession of the world economy. The net oil
import bill increased from US$15 million (3 percent of commodity imports) in
1972 to US$90 million (7.5 percent of commodity imports) in 1975. However,
the economy reacted well to these circumstances, thereby demonstrating its
resilience. In 1974, higher export earnings more than offset increased
import outlays resulting in a balance of payments surplus of US$88 million.
A 1975 deficit of US$150 million was due primarily to deteriorating terms of
trade and low timber exports caused by a continuing slump in the European
construction industry; to help meet this deficit, the country made drawings
of US$13 million from the 1975 IMF Oil Facility, and US$33 million from the
IMF Compensatory Financing Scheme. However, favorable prices for coffee and
cocoa, together with an improved timber market, led to a rapid build-up of
gross reserves from US$18 million in September 1975 to US$136 million in
February 1976 falling again to US$70 million in July. Pressures on the
balance of payments remain, as the deficit on the services account will
continue to exceed the surplus on the trade account. To maintain a sound
balance of payments position, the country will need substantial external
capital inflows, which are expected to materialize, as well as continuing
careful management of its external accounts.
17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1976,
18 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 20 percent by interna-
tional organizations (of which 68 percent by the Bank Group), and 36 percent
by private banks and bond issues, while 23 percent came in the form of sup-
pliers' credits. More than half of the total capital not supplied by inter-
national organizations came from four countries; France (27 percent), USA
(20 percent), Italy (5 percent), and Germany (4 percent). France and the
European Communities remain the principal source of development assistance
in grant form, accounting for about 6 percent of the flow of foreign assist-
ance to the public sector.
Upper Volta
18.       The latest economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and
Development Prospects of Upper Volta" was distributed to the Executive
Directors on July 7, 1975 (RN 564a-UV). An updating economic mission visited
the country in April, 1977 and its main findings are incorporated into this
report. Annex I(b) contains basic country data.
Background
19.       With a per capita GNP of US$110 in 1976, Upper Volta is one of
the poorest African countries and classified as among the 29 "least developed
countries" by the United Nations. The country's economy faces a number of



- 6 -
development constraints including extreme variability of rainfall, generally
poor soils, few exploitable minerals, long distances to the nearest seaports,
uneven population distribution with regard to available land resources, a
shortage of skilled manpower, and limited potential for industrialization.
These disadvantages also explain Upper Volta's relatively slow rate of eco-
nomic growth. For the period 1967-75, real GNP grew at an average annual rate
of 2.5 percent, or only slightly faster than population growth; per capita
real income as a consequence remained virtually stagnant.
20.       Upper Volta is a rural economy and the economic structure has
undergone little change over the last 15 years: agriculture and livestock
provide a living for over 90 percent of the population but account for less
than half of GNP. The modern manufacturing sector, consisting mostly of
import-substituting industries, accounts for less than 10 percent of GNP,
while the tertiary sector contributes about one-third. Private and public
consumption typically absorb 95 percent to 100 percent of GNP, which means
that the bulk of capital formation (in the monetary sector) - usually ranging
from 14-18 percent of GNP - has to be financed by foreign resources. Exports
consist almost entirely of agricultural and livestock products.
21.       Although Upper Volta is one of the world's most rural countries,
the urban population is estimated to have grown 5 percent annually over the
past decade, and is expected to increase from 500,000 in 1975 (i.e. 8.2
percent of total population) to 1.7 million by the year 2,000, doubling the
urban share of national population. The two largest towns, the capital
Ouagadougou (220,000), and Bobo-Dioulasso (150,000), are currently growing at
7 percent per year, but some uncontrolled squatter areas on the periphery of
the cities are expanding up to 20 percent annually. More than half of urban
growth can be attributed to rural-urban migration accelerated, in the recent
past, by extreme deprivation resulting from the severe drought in rural areas.
Urban growth, far from solving the problem of poverty, thus reflects a re-
location of poor households from rural to urban areas. Given the sluggish
growth of the rural economy, a large number of the rural population emigrates
in search of employment to towns and to coastal countries, mainly Ivory Coast
and Ghana. If opportunities for wage employment did not exist in these
countries the rate of urban migration within Upper Volta would be many times
greater.
Recent Developments
22.       The Sahelian drought of 1973 caused a severe setback in agriculture
and livestock production. Output of food grains (sorghum and millet) dropped
by more than 20 percent, calling for emergency food imports of about 100,000
tons in 1973/74. Output of cotton, the principal export crop, fell by one-
third and drought-related herd losses were estimated at 10 percent. With
normal rainfall in 1974, crop production rebounded, but recovery in the live-
stock sector was inevitably much slower. Production of food crops in 1975
equalled the record level achieved in 1970, while output of cotton also in-
creased substantially. As a result, GNP as a whole rose by 7.5 percent in
real terms. By contrast, in 1976/77, food production recorded an estimated



-7-
deficit of about 70,000 tons, for which international aid was requested by
Government in early February of this year. Owing to the relatively good
performance in other sectors, however, GNP as a whole is estimated to have
risen, though at a somewhat smaller rate than in 1975.
23.       The external trade balance has continued to deteriorate in recent
years following worldwide inflation for import goods and sluggish exports due
to the drought: the resource gap more than doubled from US$64 million in 1972
to US$159 million in 1975. The overall balance of payments, however, was in
surplus until 1974 thanks to increasing inflows of foreign capital and workers'
remittances from abroad (mainly the Ivory Coast). These remittances have
traditionally been a very important source of income for Upper Volta. In
1975 the overall balance of payments showed a small deficit (US$8.9 million)
for the first time since 1968, due chiefly to a recent border conflict with
Mali. A balance of payments deficit occurred again in 1976, reducing foreign
exchange reserves by US$15.5 million to US$52.9 million.
24.       Over the period 1968-74, Government's financial position has been
relatively strong as a result of an austere spending policy, French budgetary
subsidies, and surpluses generated by autonomous public institutions such as
the Price Stabilization Fund for Agricultural Products. At the end of 1974,
public sector deposits with the banking system stood at CFAF 9.3 billion
(US$38.7 million), equivalent to about three-fourths of the corresponding
year's current revenue. However, in the last two years, Government finances
have been strained by exceptional circumstances, i.e. the border conflict
with Mali, rising wage-price levels and a relatively unrealistic tax basis.
In 1975, for the first time in many years, the budget recorded a deficit
of CFAF 1.4 billion owing to exceptional military expenditures; a deficit of
much the same order is likely to have occurred in 1976 as well.
25.       To accelerate development through public sector investments, in
January 1975, the Government established the Caisse Nationale des Depots
et Investissements (CNDI). CNDI mobilizes savings from public and private
bodies and channels them into public infrastructure projects and other
economically and financially profitable undertakings. It aims at annual
commitments of around CFAF 3.2 billion and by the end March, 1977, committed
CFAF 9.79 billion. In line with the budgetary problem described above, the
CNDI is facing serious difficulties in replenishing its resources so that
it can maintain the current level of its lending activities which have been
averaging slightly less than CFAF 4.0 billion per year. As of April 29, 1977,
total resources of the CNDI amounted only to CFAF 675 million. The CNDI
reportedly is planning to borrow from abroad in order to continue its lending
operations.
Foreign Aid
26.       During the period 1967-1975, Upper Volta received from its major
donors annual average aid inflows of about US$42.0 million, with sharp in-
creases during the last three years. Principal foreign donors are France,
FED, Canada, Germany, USA, IDA and the UNDP. About 85 percent of all aid has



- 8 -
been in the form of grants, and, of the remaining 15 percent, 90 percent
consisted of loans on concessionary terms. Investment aid accounted for about
two-thirds of the total, followed by technical assistance and budget support
(10 percent). In recent years aid inflows increased considerably due to
drought-related relief operations (1974). While new donors, in particular
some of the Arab countries, are expected to increase their involvement in the
country, traditional aid sources are likely to remain dominant for many years
to come. IDA is gradually becoming one of the main sources of aid: its total
commitments stand at US$80.4 million as of July 1, 1977.
27.       External public debt at the end of 1976 stood at US$247.4 million,
(including an undisbursed amount of US$163.1 million), in which the IDA's
share was about 31 percent. The ratio of debt service payments to exports of
goods and non-factor services was about 6 percent in 1975. IDA's share in
total debt service payments is still insignificant. Although the debt service
ratio is expected to increase somewhat in the near future, no special problems
are foreseen.
Development Policies and Prospects
28.       Since most of the potential for economic development in the medium
and long term lies in the agricultural sector, emphasis should be put on
increasing agricultural productivity in the rural sector and the improvement
of supporting services. One of the basic problems facing the country's rural
sector is an uneven population distribution with respect to available re-
sources. About 61 percent of the total population live in the central region
(the Mossi Plateau), which comprises only 34 percent of the total area and
which is much less favorably endowed than the southern and southwestern
regions with respect to rainfall and soil quality. The occurrence of river-
blindness in the river valley areas explains in part the concentration of
population on the Mossi plateau. An important component of the country's
long-term development strategy is therefore to redistribute population to more
fertile areas in the southwestern part of the country, which have so far been
relatively underpopulated.
29.       While the thrust of development efforts should remain in agriculture,
efforts of some degree ought to be made so as to improve living conditions and
provide a minimal package of infrastructure and services to the urban popula-
tion, especially to those living in the squatter areas of the larger towns.
30.       The last five-year Plan (1972-76) was well conceived and essentially
project-oriented. GNP in real terms was expected to grow only 3.5 percent
p.a. during the Plan period. However, external factors such as the drought
and worldwide inflation adversely affected the economy, and actual growth (2
percent) fell short of the moderate target. In December 1975, the Government
drew up guidelines for the next Development Plan (1977-81), which is currently
under preparation. The Plan will be conceived in a longer-term "perspective"
for tackling the country's structural problems. Rural development in the
broadest sense, including the resettlement of people in the riverblindness-
freed zones, will continue to occupy center stage; education and employment



- 9 -
will be given higher priority than in the past, and close linkage between the
two will be actively sought in the form of a production-oriented education
system. One of the crucial issues in planning investment allocation will be
to determine the extent to which it is preferable to concentrate development
efforts in the more fertile areas, and to facilitate out-migration from the
Mossi Plateau towards them.
31.       Foreign capital and technical assistance will continue to play a
vital role in the development of Upper Volta for some time to come. In view
of the country's poverty and limited growth potential, it will be appropriate
for external lending agencies to finance a high proportion of project costs,
including a substantial amount of local costs. Furthermore, since lack of
operating funds, limited absorptive capacity, and shortfalls in project
preparation have more often than not been identified as principal bottlenecks
in effective implementation of planned projects, intensive efforts should be
made by foreign donors to assist the Government in its efforts to gradually
remove these constraints.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Ivory Coast
32.       Since 1968 the Bank's lending to the Ivory Coast has expanded
rapidly and now includes twenty-six loans totaling US$336.7 million (includ-
ing US$14 million from the Third Window) and an IDA credit of US$7.5 million.
Twelve of these twenty-seven operations have been for agriculture, covering
the development of cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut plantations.
There were five road projects. The remaining ten loans were for education
(two), telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, provin-
cial water supply, urban development, tourism development, small- and medium-
scale enterprises (two) and a regional cement project. IFC's small partici-
pation in the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel (US$204,000) was
increased in 1974 by a 50 percent stock dividend. IFC's Board approved
earlier this year a 10 percent equity investment, equivalent to about
US$880,000, in Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG), the largest textile plant
in the country. Annex II(a) contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
33.       The main thrust of the Bank lending program will continue to be
in the agricultural sector with an emphasis on regional growth and income
distribution. A US$20 million loan for the Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut
Project was approved in March 1977. A second rubber project in the South-
west and a rural development project in the North are currently being pre-
pared. Other rural development projects in the Northeast are also under
consideration.
34.       The Bank was the executing agency of the 1969 UNDP Transport Survey
of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a basis for determining future
priorities among transport investments. Thus far the Bank has financed five



- 10 -
road projects totaling US$94.3 million. The First Project was completed
in December 1974 with final costs within appraised estimates. The second
project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975, after an initial
delay caused by project modification and subsequent poor work organization
for the construction component. The third and fourth highway projects in-
curred substantial cost overruns which the Government is covering, otherwise
execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The fifth highway project will
substantially complete the primary road network of the country thus allow-
ing a shift in emphasis for Bank lending to secondary and feeder roads.
Negotiations for a feeder road and highway maintenance project are expected
to take place shortly. While the Bank is expected to continue to play a
major role in the transport sector, financing will increasingly be shared
with other aid donors.
35.       The education system of the Ivory Coast has not provided the
country with an adequate supply of skilled manpower. The Bank is closely
associated with the Government's efforts to modernize the education system,
in particular at the secondary and vocational levels. Both the Bank's two
projects thus far have been directed to these ends. Preparation of a third
project is included in the second.
36.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project approved in 1975 will
cover the first phase of a ten-year Government program to improve sanita-
tion in Abidjan and a follow-up project has been appraised. A water supply
project for secondary centers was approved in August 1977. An urban devel-
opment project, primarily aiming to meet some of the demand for low income
housing in Abidjan and transport needs, was signed in December 1976.
37.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises.
A follow-up line of credit is under consideration. The Bank Group also pro-
vided support to medium scale enterprises through a local development finance
company. In June 1976 the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in support
of the CIMAO project, which is sponsored jointly by the Governments of Ghana,
Ivory Coast, and Togo. CIMAO will utilize limestone deposits in Togo for
the production of clinker for the cement market of the three countries.
38.       Bank Group lending to the Ivory Coast has averaged about US$47
million per year in the 1973-77 period. It is expected to increase to about
US$110 million annually over the next five years. The Bank Group's share of
the Ivory Coast's external debt which, at the end of 1975, stood at approxi-
mately 10 percent (including undisbursed), is likely to remain at about that
level in the next ten-year period. The Bank Group's share of total debt
service is at present 4.5 percent and is expected to go up to about 7.0 per-
cent in the early 1980's.
Upper Volta
39.       The Bank Group's contribution to Upper Volta's development has
consisted of thirteen IDA projects totalling US$80.2 million. Annex II(b)



- 11 -
contains a summary statement of disbursements of these credits, as well
as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
40.       Experience with ongoing projects has generally been satisfactory.
The Bank Group's strategy in Upper Volta is dictated by the extreme poverty
of the country and the need to raise productivity in agriculture and live-
stock, on which the bulk of the population depends for a livelihood. Basic
infrastructure, necessary to the economy, is being developed with the assist-
ance of IDA projects for road construction and up-grading, and in telecom-
munications. IDA lending, in line with Government's policy, is primarily
directed to projects in agricultural, education and rural area improvements,
with special emphasis given to improvement which will favor the movement of
peoples away from the over-populated and ecologically disadvantaged central
plateau to the southwest, where conditions are much better. Ongoing projects
in this area includes a livestock project, an integrated rural development
project and a cotton project. The Banfora - Bobo-Dioulasso - Hounde road
presently being constructed under the Third Highway project provides the
most important transport link in this region of substantial agricultural
potential.
41.       The main objectives of Bank Group lending in the future are to
promote agricultural development so as to help the country attain some degree
of food self-sufficiency; to facilitate the movement of the rural population
from the Mossi Plateau to the Southwest and to areas freed from riverblindness
and help with their integration into their new environment; to strengthen
infrastructure facilities; to promote employment; and to mobilize resources
from other donors through cofinancing. In keeping with the above objectives,
future projects include an integrated rural development settlement project
aimed at the repopulation of areas which are now habitable as a result of the
campaign for control of riverblindness in the Volta River Basin, a second
feeder road project, a small pilot irrigation project, a forestry project and
a follow-up education project which will probably include a rural non-formal
education component.
PART III - THE SECTOR
The Regional Transport System
42.       The northern Ivory Coast, Upper Volta and Mali are connected to the
ocean by four transport corridors, Abidjan by rail and road, Dakar (Senegal)
by rail only, and Lome (Togo) and Tema (Ghana) by road only. For Upper Volta,
the most important and cheapest transport route is the railway to Abidjan. It
links the economically most active western and central areas of the country
with the sea. In addition to the railway connection, the Upper Voltan and
Togolese Governments have decided to upgrade the road between Ouagadougou and
Lome. However, this road together with the paved road to Tema are only second
best transport options as far as operating costs are concerned. Furthermore,
the port of Abidjan is well conceived and can be expanded to accommodate
increased traffic.



- 12 -
43.       For Mali, the main routes to the Atlantic Ocean are the Dakar-
Bamako railway through Senegal, and the road/rail transport links with
Abidjan which carried about half of Mali's international trade in 1975.
Although the Senegal connection is cheaper for about 70 percent of Mali's
international traffic, some of the traffic is being diverted through the
Ivory Coast because of operational difficulties on the Dakar-Bamako line.
44.       For southeast Mali, Upper Volta and sub-Sahelian northern Ivory
Coast as a region, the Abidjan rail/road corridor is the principal link to
the sea. The railway's edge lies with its cost advantage, particularly by
carrying major commodities and general freight over long distances. The
railway hauls about 80 percent of the cargo to and from Upper Volta and
the northern Ivory Coast and some traffic of southern Mali.
45.       In the Ivory Coast the railway runs parallel to a road between
Abidjan and the border with Upper Volta. For distances of less than 300 km
the flexibility and rapidity of service weigh strongly in favor of road
transport, whose average haul is 224 km, about a third of the average carried
by rail. Rail and road transport services compete for the traffic north of
Bouake where the longer distances and high proportion of bulk commodities give
the railway a strong cost advantage over the road. 80 percent of all rail
traffic takes place in this area.
46.       Improved transport infrastructure for the landlocked Sahelian
countries is vital. The five transport axes to the ocean are currently being
rehabilitated or upgraded. The Bank Group is closely associated with four
of these transport links, through ongoing highway projects in Upper Volta, the
Ivory Coast and Ghana and ptoposed railway projects to strengthen the Bamako-
Dakar and Ouagadougou-Abidjan lines. Infrastructure expenditures should
increasingly be concentrated on maintenance and renewal and the improvement
of operational efficiency of the existing system and on construction of sec-
ondary and feeder roads. The importance of these objectives is increasingly
recognized by the respective Governments and they form the basis of the Bank's
strategy in the region.
47.       The distribution of traffic between different modes and corridors
is generally satisfactory. However, due to the inefficient operations of
the Dakar-Bamako railway, substantial amounts of Mali international traffic
are being diverted to the more costly Abidjan-Bamako corridor. The situation
is expected to improve under the third Mali and proposed third Senegal railway
projects, which have as their main objectives a substantial increase in pro-
ductivity, capacity and quality of rail service. In the transport corridor
extending northward from Abidjan, there is competition between rail and road
services. For freight traffic both modes are being subsidized in the order
of 5 to 10 percent of operating costs, and the Governments have considerable
influence on rate setting for both modes. It is not clear if this is leading
to an uneconomic distortion of the modal allocation of traffic. Thus, a study
would be executed to determine the effect of the subsidies and what changes in
the subsidy and taxation systems would be needed to improve the distribution
of traffic (Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreements). The study would be



- 13 -
carried out by the planning and research unit being set up in the Ivorian
Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism with participa-
tion of the Voltaic Ministry of Transportation and consultants. It would be
financed under the proposed feeder road and highway maintenance project
shortly to be negotiated.
The Railway Sub-sector
48.       Regie Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger (RAN) is a multi-national,
financially and operationally autonomous agency responsible for maintenance
and operation of railway facilities in the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta. RAN
is owned by the two Governments and its Articles of Agreement were laid
down in an international agreement between the Governments of the Ivory Coast
and Upper Volta, dated April 30, 1960. They are designed to safeguard RAN's
operational autonomy and financial viability. These principles have in general
been successfully implemented by RAN's 17-member Board composed of representa-
tives from the two Governments, railway users and the railway staff. Tariff
increases in particular have been timely and adequate to cope with operating
cost increases.
49.       RAN's general manager is appointed by the Board.   He is in charge
of day-to-day operations and submits proposals on policy matters for approval
by the Board. RAN's organization worked well until recent years, since when
critical problems in the railway's information and planning system and equip-
ment maintenance services became apparent, as a result of RAN's operational
growth and increased investment volume. The proposed project includes provi-
sions for consulting services aimed at improving these functions.
50.       At the end of 1976 RAN employed about 5,100 people, representing an
increase of 12 percent since 1973 in spite of only moderate traffic increases.
Some overstaffing is apparent and RAN is employing consultants to help improve
its efficiency. RAN has agreed to aim at an increase of staff productivity
by not exceeding at the end of 1978 a staff of 5,200 people and to prepare,
by June 1978, for discussion with the Bank, a draft five-year (1978-82)
manpower plan (Section 4.05 of Loan Agreement and Part D of Schedule 6 of Loan
Agreement).
51.       RAN's management is generally well qualified and with the exception
of one department director, entirely Africanized. RAN employs about 60 expa-
triate technical assistants, filling advisory and middle level line positions.
The proposed project would assist RAN in reducing its dependency on expatri-
ates through a management training component and consulting services. Tech-
nical training has been rather limited in the past and needs to be improved.
The proposed project would, therefore, include a technical training component,
described in para. 65 of this report. RAN agreed to consult with the Bank
annually on the railway's technical assistance requirements and on measures
necessary to meet them (Section 4.04 of Loan Agreement).
52.       RAN operates a 1,159-km single track meter-gauge rail line extending
from Abidjan to Ouagadougou in Upper Volta. A 14-km branch line extends from



- 14 -
Azaguie (42 km north of Abidjan) to Ake-Befiat and a 16-km double track links
Cechi and Anoumaba (130 km north of Abidjan). The track is generally well
maintained but some sections need renewal. A large portion of the motive
power and freight car fleet is obsolete (31 locomotives and 262 freight cars)
and has to be replaced. Additional equipment is needed to carry the forecast
increase of traffic. RAN is currently upgrading communication facilities
along the Abidjan-Ouagadougou line to improve train movement control.
53.       Mainly as a result of a drop in traffic demand, insufficient manage-
ment control and increase in staff, RAN's operating efficiency deteriorated
from 1973 to 1975. Staff productivity is, however, still higher than for
other West African railways. An operational plan of action for the period
1977 to 1982 has been agreed upon with RAN and is incorporated in Schedule 6
of the Loan Agreement. The main areas where improvement is expected are in
average train loads, locomotive availability and utilization, turnaround time
of freight cars, utilization of passenger coaches and train delays. RAN's
newest locomotives are no longer susceptible to the difficulties associated
with prototypes. Their overall utilization is thus expected to improve by
about 60 percent until 1980-1982.
54.       During the period 1960-1975 the number of passengers per year
doubled from 1.5 to 3.0 million. The annual increases followed a clear
linear trend, corresponding to a growth rate of 2.9 percent at the end of
the period. Passenger kilometers increased at an annual rate of 8.5 percent
between 1970 and 1975, with interstate passengers accounting for two thirds
of the total. Simultaneously, average journeys of Ivorian domestic traffic
have become longer as more people travel by road for short trips. These
trends are expected to continue in the future. For 1976-1985, an average
annual growth of passenger-kilometers of 5.7 percent is expected.
55.       RAN's freight traffic has recently had a high rate of growth in
spite of rather strong competition from road transport. In accordance with
RAN's marketing strategy, freight traffic operations would continue to focus
on commodities such as cement, petroleum products, fertilizer, sugar, cotton
and oil seeds. In so doing RAN takes full advantage of its competitive
superiority over road transport. The traffic forecasts make due allowance
for strong trucking competition, in particular for short and some medium
hauls and for general cargo, beverages and food. Freight traffic is expected
to reach 1.4 million tons and 880 million ton-km by 1985, corresponding to
an annual growth rate of about 6.5 percent in both tonnage and ton-km.
56.       RAN annually prepares an operational budget and an investment
budget. The value of the operational budget as a management control instru-
ment will be enhanced by integrating it with the new costing system which is
expected to be operational by end 1977. Agreements were reached that, begin-
ning with FY1978, both the operational and the investment budgets would be
submitted to the Bank for review at least 30 days before the date scheduled
for consideration by RAN's Board. The same would apply to changes in the
investment budgets proposed to be made during the year (Section 5.04 of the
Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
The Investment Plan
57.       RAN's 1975-1980 investment plan was revised after considerable
discussion with the Bank and foresees disbursements during the 1977 to 1982
period of US$211 million including contingencies. Its main emphasis is on
rehabilitating and standardizing the North-South axis of the railway track,
from Abidjan to Ouagadougou, and increasing transport capacity. Financing
of these investments has already been committed by or will be sought from
multilateral, bilateral and commercial lenders. The plan also includes four
infrastructure components, costing an estimated US$45 million, the timing and
scope of which need to be further studied. The Bank loan would provide funds
for these studies. RAN has agreed that investment decisions based on these
studies would be taken in consultation with the Bank. (Section 4.07 of Loan
Agreement and 3.03 Ivory Coast Guarantee Agreement). RAN's investment plan
would be updated annually, also in consultation with the Bank (Section 4.06
of Loan Agreement). RAN also has a previous commitment with the European
Investment Bank (EIB), whose approval they require for any medium and long
term investment.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Description
58.       RAN and the Governments of the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta have
requested Bank assistance for the financing of the railway's priority invest-
ments in the 1978-79 portion of the 1975-80 investment plan. The proposed
project was appraised in October 1976 and negotiated from July 6 to July 8,
1977. The Borrowers delegations were led for the Government of the Ivory
Coast by Mr. Naka, Director General, Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement; for
the Government of Upper Volta by Mr. Minoungou, Director of the Cabinet of
the Ministry of Public Works; and for the railway company by Mr. Konate,
Director General of RAN. The proposed project is described in detail in
Appraisal Report No. 1478-WA, dated October 11, 1977, and summarized at the
beginning of this report. It would comprise:
i) realignment of the 89-km Bouake-Petionara section
in the Ivory Coast;
ii) renewal of track material in the Ivory Coast on 4 km
near Ouangolodougou and provision of 60 turnouts;
iii) track improvement in Upper Volta, consisting of the
renewal of sleepers on 40 km, reinforcement of eroded
fills and ballasting on 100 km mainly between Bobo-
Dioulasso and Bereba;
iv) renewal of existing and procurement of additional
track maintenance equipment and spare parts;



- 16 -
v)  procurement of 18 mainline locomotives and 210 box cars;
vi) improvement and extension of existing training facil-
ities, including procurement of furniture and training
equipment and technical assistance for technical train-
ing for skilled labor and supervisors;
vii) consulting services to improve the railway's management
and operations and for management training; and
viii) feasibility studies to improve the Abidjan marshalling
yard and rolling stock maintenance facilities, deter-
mine a satisfactory solution for improvement of the
Petionara-Tafire infrastructure improvement and eval-
uate RAN's plan to double the track from Abidjan to
Agboville and ultimately to Bouake.
The project would be carried out from 1977 to 1980.
Track Improvement in the Ivory Coast
59.       The realignment of the track from Dimbokro (about 170 km north of
Abidjan) to Bouake is being financed by a loan from the EIB and the European
Development Fund (FED), and will be completed by 1978. Thus, nearly the whole
of the track running the length of the Ivory Coast will have uniform standards,
except for the Bouake-Tafire stretch (172 km). On this section the track must
be rehabilitated within the next few years in order to maintain traffic safety
and to avoid capacity constraints. RAN plans to rebuild this section on a new
alignment with uniform standards providing substantial savings in operating
costs and travel time.   An optimum solution for the priority portion of this
stretch, i.e. Bouake-Petionara (89 km), as determined by extensive studies
carried out by RAN's civil works department and reviewed by the Bank, is
included in the proposed project.
60.       Most of the remaining stretch from Petionara to Tafire, will need
rehabilitation shortly thereafter. The proposed loan would include funds
for a study to determine a technically and economically satisfactory solution
for this stretch. The study would be completed and reviewed by RAN in con-
sultation with the Ivory Coast, the Bank and the EIB no later than June 30,
1978 (Section 4.07(b) of Loan Agreement and para. 57 of this report).
61.       On four kilometers, the track between Ferkessedougou and
Ouangolodougou is heavily corrugated. The renewal of track material of this
section is, therefore, justified. In addition, worn-out turnouts have to be
replaced in several locations. The 60 turnouts included in the project
correspond to a two-year replacement program.
Track Improvement in Upper Volta
62.       Several fills are badly eroded in Upper Volta and ballast is needed
to complete ballasting of the line to avoid the risk of lateral buckling of



- 17 -
the welded track. Earthworks and ballasting would be included in the pro-
posed project. On the last 222 km before reaching Ouagadougou, the track
was originally laid on prestressed concrete sleepers which now show evidence
of fatigue. These concrete sleepers will be replaced by steel sleepers at
the rate of 20 km per year over the next eleven years, starting immediately.
The project would cover the first two years of this program.
Track Maintenance Equipment
63.       Some track maintenance equipment is obsolete and would be re-
placed. Additional equipment would be needed to facilitate the concen-
tration of maintenance staff in larger operational units, resulting in
staff reduction, better supervision of track labor and, thus, an increase
in staff productivity.
Motive Power and Rolling Stock
64.       RAN has to replace gradually 31 obsolete locomotives.   By acquir-
ing more efficient mainline locomotives, RAN would need to purchase only
18 locomotives to replace those which are obsolete and still provide for
sufficient capacity. To replace obsolete freight cars and to meet traffic
demand until 1980, RAN has to purchase 210 new box cars for delivery between
1978 and 1980.
Training and Consulting Services
65.       The technical training component of the proposed project is vital
to the goals and the operational targets agreed upon by RAN and the Bank.
Its aim is to improve staff efficiency and quality of service by training
and upgrading about 3,000 skilled workers and supervisors. It includes the
expansion or construction of physical training facilities in Abidjan, Bouake
and Bobo-Dioulasso; the purchase of furniture and training equipment for these
facilities; and the recruitment of three expatriate personnel totaling 50
man-months (at a cost of about US$6,200 per man-month in 1977 prices). The
progress of the training program would be reviewed annually.
66.       In addition a total of 177 man-months (US$8,800 per man-month in
1977 prices) of consulting services would also be included in the project
for diagnosis of problems and preparation of a plan of action (15 man-months);
management training (10 man-months); development of RAN's planning function by
establishing a corporate planning unit and a centralized statistical service
(51 man-months); establishment of an Organization and Methods division in the
Operation Department (36 man-months); improvement of management and organiza-
tion of RAN's administrative serivces (10 man-months); 15 man-months for
complementary actions, part of which may be used for additional assistance
for the Motive Power and Rolling Stock Department and for re-organizing and
improving management control of the Service des Wagon-Lits et Hotels de
Tourisme; and three feasibility studies (40 man-months).



- 18 -
Project Cost and Financing
67.       The Governments have agreed to exempt project items from duties and
taxes. On that basis total project costs are estimated at US$63.2 million.
The foreign exchange component would amount to US$53.2 million, 84 percent
of project costs. The proposed loan of US$23 million would finance about 40
percent of the foreign exchange costs and US$3.0 million interest during the
construction period. The balance of the foreign exchange costs would be
financed by CIDA (US$29.2 million), and IDA (US$4.0 million). The local costs
of US$10.0 million would be paid by the Government of the Ivory Coast (US$4.3
million) and Upper Volta (US$0.6 million), RAN (US$3.9 million) and the
balance of the proposed IDA credit about (US$1.2 million).
68.       The Bank loan would be made to RAN.    The full loan amount would be
guaranteed by the Government of the Ivory Coast. The portion of the loan
financing project items which are not physically located in the Ivory Coast,
would also be guaranteed, jointly and severally, by Upper Volta (about US$6.0
million). The IDA credit would be made to the Government of Upper Volta to
finance infrastructure works in that country. A portion of these funds
(US$3.1 million) would correspond to the Voltaic Government contribution for
track renewal and additional infrastructure which, in accordance with RAN's
Articles of Agreement, would be passed on to RAN as a grant. The balance
(US$2.1 million) would be onlent to RAN at conditions identical to those of
the Bank loan to RAN (Section 3.01 (b) of Credit Agreement).
Procurement
69.       The Bank Group-financed items will be procured by international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for a total
of US$17.7 million, all contingencies included, with the exception of the
specific items listed below. The consulting services, technical assistance
and feasibility studies, for which consultants will be selected on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, would amount to a total of US$2.6
million, including all contingencies. The following would be procured through
local competitive bidding in the Ivory Coast or Upper Volta, under procedures
acceptable to the Bank: ballast for Upper Volta (US$1.5 million); reinforce-
ment of fills in Upper Volta (US$1.8 million); furniture and equipment for
training (US$0.7 million) which, because of standardization with existing
equipment or the small quantities involved, would not be suitable for ICB;
and construction of training facilities (US$0.7 million), an item too small
to be suitable for ICB. Traditional suppliers of the railway would be chosen
in order to maintain standardization of spare parts for existing track main-
tenance equipment (US$0.3 million); and fastenings for sleepers of the type
now in service (US$1.3 million). Negotiated purchases should not increase
the cost of these items as compared with international competitive bidding.
Production of ballast for the Ivory Coast, transport, supervision of the
works, track relaying and ballasting would be carried out by RAN's own labor
force (US$7.4 million).



- 19 -
70.       CIDA has agreed to provide in parallel US$29.2 million for the
procurement of locomotives, rolling stock and rails purchased from Canadian
suppliers. The material is considered technically sound and competitive in
terms of cost. About US$16 million equivalent of the CIDA funds would be
lent on IDA-type terms to the Ivory Coast and the balance given as a grant
to Upper Volta. All funds would be onlent to RAN on conditions to be nego-
tiated by CIDA with the two Governments and RAN. Effectiveness of the CIDA
Financing Agreements and the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
two Governments and RAN would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan and IDA credit (Sections 7.01 (b) and 5.01 (a) of the Loan and
Credit Agreements).
Disbursements
71.       Disbursements from the Loan account representing the estimated
foreign cost of the various components would be on the following basis: 100
percent of the c.i.f. cost of imported railway equipment and material; 80
percent of the cost of civil works and locally produced wooden or concrete
sleepers; 60 percent of the cost of buildings and new ballast; 20 percent of
the cost of track laying and welding; 50 percent of the transport cost of
ballast and track material; 72 percent of the cost of signalling and telecom-
munication works; 25 percent of the geotechnical studies and works supervision
costs; 56 percent of the cost of buildings for training; 100 percent of c.i.f.
cost of imported furniture and equipment for training. If these items are
imported but procured through local suppliers, 75 percent of the total cost
would be disbursed from the loan account. The cost of technical assistance
for training would be reimbursed on the basis of 80 percent. Other consulting
services would be reimbursed on the basis of 85 percent of total cost. Dis-
bursements from the credit account would be made against 100 percent of the
c.i.f. cost of imported railway equipment; and 90 percent of the total cost
of civil works and ballast in Upper Volta.
Financial Covenants
72.       RAN's accounting system is undergoing a major reorganization with
the assistance of consultants. In addition, a sound and sophisticated cost-
ing system is being introduced and expected to be in operation by late 1977.
However, training of local staff to operate the renovated accounting system
lags behind schedule, and RAN has already extended the consultants' contract
accordingly.
73.       RAN's accounts are audited in compliance with the railway's statutes
by two "Commissaires aux Comptes", appointed by the Ministers of Finance of
the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta. The auditor's report does, however, not
reflect the execution of proper checks of RAN's accounts. RAN has, there-
fore, agreed to have its accounts audited by qualified independent auditors.
(Section 5.02 of Loan Agreement).
74.       RAN's operating revenue and costs grew rapidly and virtually in
parallel during the 1970-1976 period, corresponding to an annual growth rate



- 20 -
of 18 percent. Tariffs on the average nearly doubled in this six-year period
which has generally been sufficient to cope with inflation. The railway's
investment volume, however, increased much more rapidly than its cash flow,
entailing borrowing on a much larger scale and a drop of the debt service
coverage ratio from 10.4 in 1972 to 1.5 in 1976. As investment needs will
remain high for several years in order to maintain RAN's competitiveness
with road transport and to increase capacity, RAN needs to increase its cash
generation substantially. To achieve this objective, RAN and the Bank have
agreed on an action plan, incorporating targets for freight traffic, opera-
tional efficiency and staffing (para. 53). Additionally, tariff increases
amounting to about 18 percent in real terms over the three years 1977-1979
are needed. Implementation of the above measures will lead to a satisfactory
earnings situation by 1979. RAN has, therefore, agreed to meet working
ratios (ratio between working expenses and operating revenue) of not more
than 78 percent in 1978 and 75 percent each year thereafter. In addition,
a debt limitation based on a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 has
been agreed upon (Sections 5.05 and 5.06 of Loan Agreement).
75.       The above ratios do not take into account the substantial payments
from both Governments to the railway for maintenance and renewal and for addi-
tions to infrastructure. These contributions, due to RAN under its Articles
of Agreement, should amount to the full cost of additional infrastructure and
60 percent of the cost of renewing, upgrading and maintaining existing in-
frastructure. The Governments traditionally rely on external assistance,
such as the proposed loan, to help finance this investment, and thereafter
reimburse to RAN the corresponding share of the debt service. The statutory
contributions remain a necessary feature of RAN's financial viability for the
medium-term and the two Governments agreed to more timely payments of their
contributions in order to remedy RAN's present cash shortage (Sections 2.02
(b)(ii) and (iii) of the two Guarantee Agreements). By December 31, 1979,
the Governments would carry out a review, in consultation with the Borrower
and the Bank regarding the adequacy of the financial contribution system with
a view of possibly reducing the Government contributions (Sections 3.05 and
3.04 of the two Guarantee Agreements).
Economic Justification
76.       The railway is clearly the most economic mode of transport for Upper
Volta, southeastern Mali and northern Ivory Coast. Economic costs of truck
transport are estimated on the basis of a 1976 consultants' study at 6.3 cents
per ton-km compared with 3.9 cents per ton-km for rail hauls. Relatively
inexpensive rail transport helps to alleviate the development constraints of
the poorly endowed regions of Upper Volta and the Ivory Coast served by RAN.
77.       For the economic analysis shadow pricing has been used to value
savings in labor in those investments (maintenance equipment) which are mainly
justified by improved staff productivity. No shadow pricing was applied to
construction costs because its effect would be minimal. The overall economic
rate of return of quantifiable benefits is estimated at 23 percent. All
individual project components are economically justified with an overall rate



- 21 -
of return of 17 percent even under slow traffic growth (50 percent of fore-
cast) and higher than expected rail transport and project cost assumptions
(10 percent each). Unquantifiable benefits would be produced by the training
and technical assistance components which will make significant contributions
towards the improvement of efficiency and quality of RAN's operations and
management.
Risks
78.       RAN's future financial position is expected to be sound.    If,
however, RAN would incur a shortfall in forecast freight traffic and higher-
than-expected increases of operating costs, RAN might be unable to cover its
full debt service through cash generated from operations, thus necessitat-
ing subsidies. This is, unlikely but the Governments have agreed to take
appropriate measures to protect RAN's cash position should a cash shortfall
materialize. (Sections 2.02 (b)(iv) of the two Guarantee Agreements).
79.       In the unlikely event of a border closure between the Ivory Coast
and Upper Volta, the railway could incur considerable losses and its financial
viability would be jeopardized. An appropriate default clause (Section 6.01
(c) of the Loan Agreement) has been provided to cover this possibility.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreement between RAN and the Bank, the draft De-
velopment Credit Agreement between the Republic of Upper Volta and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Guarantee Agreements between the Republic of the Ivory
Coast and the Bank and the Republic of Upper Volta and the Bank, the Reports
of the Committees provided for in Articles III, Section 4(iii) of the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Bank and Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and the text of the draft resolutions approv-
ing the proposed loan and credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
81.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The following special conditions of effectiveness are provided
in the Loan Agreement:
(a) that the CIDA Financing Agreements with the Governments
of Upper Volta and Ivory Coast are effective (para.
68); and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
Governments of Upper Volta and Ivory Coast and RAN
for the CIDA loan are effective (para. 68).
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
September 29, 1977



a w    I
W. W.
A          Vj       -,I
z, T TO 0. cl,                      2                                               r
W  n
a Z
In 11                                    lox-c              C
X a                                                                                                                                      X
a    r
-1 I   1                10 I                                                             0
In,                                                 n       A. A



-24 -                                              ANNEXI I,,
NOTES
Url.. o;thrwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yea between 1959 and 19611 for 1970 bet.e.. 1968 and 1970 and for l5c.t Recen.t Estimate between
1973 an     175.                                                                -6bi)
*  OW  pr espita data se     based co World lank Atlas mtbadrilsy        (197146    ai)
- D.s.    two igi.tion population growth rtet L. higher than the rote Of natural ianreac-
--*Th. Republic Of Chins      Miwan) ha. been selected an an objective country becau-           Of its high rate Of gr-th nupled with an iepr-omuet of the
in-.e. distribution, it . succe.s in the diversification of production          ndsxport., the dmsindnt roie of exports in its.cnoi              d-viopm.t, the
high ievei of domestic saing. and the low rate of urban unupivym..ni despite a rursi.. exdu..
IVORY COAST:              1960    li   1957-58;      /b  African pepulation only;       .L.   1955-65i     /d   1965;     Li   15 - 59 years and 60 a,:d -vr renpoc-
tively;     .Lf  1964;     L.&  Ratio of population under 15 and 6, and .ovr to labor for 15 -59 year;                /h   Pop.l.-
tine;     /i   1963;     Li.  Including aesietant nurses, midwive       and assistant midwi-n         /k   1956-57.
1970     Li   1965-70;     /b   Ratio of populetion onder 15 and 65 and ovr tv total 1obor force;              /c   G.ce-nmnt only, inclo.ding
midwiv-; Ld 1964.66.
MOST RECENT E.STIMATE.:    &~1976g              1970-751.    La     tio of popuslation under 15 and 65 and oeer to labor force age 15-59
y0sms'  I       Age 15-59 yeaee        &    19711     If  1972.
TUNIS IA:1970                      Li Due to mgainpopulation groth rate i.IClwe                 than the rate of noturo1 in.cr...e;        /b   1956-66;      /c   1966;
/d   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to total labor force;              /,.  Covering 47    million hctare     in
private land,..ealuding 0.8 million hectares in public ownership, and 2.1 million hectoren of colcieland;
Personnel in g-vrmuet aervices only;            ,/p   Onve-uet hoepita1 establishments only;            /b   1964-66;
IRegietred only.
MALAYS IA:                1970:    L   West Malayeie;      ..L.  Registered eppliconts fo .rkst;        /c   Personnel  in go-eoo-t neocnonly;               /d  1964-66;
In Piped water inside only.
CHINA. UEP. OF:           1970:    /   Due to i-sng-ation population groth rate i. higher than the rote of nxt.rxi incroxe                    /1  1966;      /c  Roti   of
__ population under 15 and 65 and ove      to total lobor force;        Id  G--eavet only;         In   Total, orbon ond rurol
P.1., A.gust 12, 1977
DENflTIONS OP SOCIAL. INDICATORS
L.nd ores ;thou k.2                                                                          P pclecto   par noraia nereo    - Population divded by mother of practicing
Total1   Torsi surfans area Conprieleg land area and inland waters,                             axle an  f-1al   graduaen-    ae   "trained' or "certified' noea,ed
Agri..  H-tHa  rannt estimate of agricultural ara used tamporarily Or prema-                   etmiliary perennl with training or ecpnri-,ce
nostly for Crops, puatoree, market 6 kitchen gardese or to lie fellma               .       Polation par hoePit.1 bed - PvPuletioe divided by number oc h.npitel hedm
evailable in public and privete f...e e1nd sp.ci.llssd hospital end
GNfP par -anit. (US1) - MMP per capita estiates at current markt prices,                        rehbilitation reters; necindee noveag honme. and .et.blislmmete for
calculated b     a   es   rioc oathnd as Wrold Bask Atl.s (1973-75 heals);                   cusodialad peenieCae
1960    917  and19711dar.                                                                  PrcniaeeeoO            clr       (j of rCurmat)         -Coputed fran enery
equlivalet of et.foodsoppIise awoilabl      in coutry rpar Ce pi    pr dy;
Popnularion and vital etatistic:                                                                ailbleeppiecnis               dms   t  prnduoClo    inprals       epOrte, end
populto     (aid-year. et Li I.- . as of7July flint:   if one avilable,evrg                     ch.Snge  in stock; nec euppli. le -eclde animal feed, needs, quantities used
of two end-~yearesias;1:60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                               in fond processIng and leases in distribution; requirni.tni     were setimted
by FA0 ba..ed on physiological neede for noma      aocivity and health -onid-
Pop.l.tion denaity - ewe 'nre 6       - Hid-yeer population par squar    kilnetr                seing  ninaetlt-pera-re, bod             -ight., age end sen dintrib-i-on     of
(100 he.  rs .  ot   nalaes                                                                   ootIon       n   aliwia    05.fo     at  et hnueehold leve.
Ponol.tion demeity earsinre       k   of sarie, loand - Cmsputed as shon   for                 P7Per pseta supplyd of p`CteInI lora  per day) - Prote in nontent of per capita
agricultural land only,                                                                       netteupply.of food per day; eat supply of fond is defised as above; r-quire-
ea      o  all'            .tetns   etb1lehed by USDA toonoic R ....srob Seruice
Vita   e tatiticin                                                                              provide forI a niteim,nslan=   ce of 60 gems of total protein per day, and
Crude birth eats ear thougand. avres        Anual live birthn p-r tho....d of                   20 gemsof animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gram        hbou1d ha animal
mId -Year populetion ; tee-year  hriti.tl   everage.rdisg in 1960 and 1970,prti;these                          -tadards ae   lever than thoar of 75 gram    of tota   p-eotl
and fMv-yar     verege an    i7in 195 for     et raesar seiaate.                              and 23 gers of animal protein asanaerage for the oneId, propuned by tAO
Crude death rate    e  thouan.=   ever.&  - Annual desthe per tho" ..d of mid-year              in the Third World P ond S.-vY.
Ppoplation; te-year aritteatic avreg.e ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                    Par ...eit. er.tainsun      fran anima   and noise - Protein supply of food
year e_rg     edn     is 1971 far Oan   reet r      tia.                                      deie     rn     iasad pulses in gins per dsy.
Infant martaglit'y rati  /hn                 thnna .de  of infant  under on  Yea  of ag      Oeath ratef C/thou   sass 1-4 - Annul deaCho psr thous..nd in age grop 1-i
per tosn      Iv   bEta                                                                       ymear.tecildren in this eg. group; -uggeeted aanIndicator of
Life .spwet=,c a_t bbirthl(yre)   A- Avrag  smber of years of life raiing at                    malmunrtiticon.
birth; -sualy five-year avrges ending to 1960, 1870 and 1975 for develp-
ing Co,etrIs                                                                               Sdarati-
Ura e-      ooto     rate -  w-reg   nober of liv    daughters s .omas w ill hear             Adiusted sercilman1thratio    r- fim    acheal - Enrnllaaeet of all agas sa pe-
in her noma    esrproduotiv  pertod if eke eperiso-c     present age-specific                 retog    Of p_:r sha-ga pepulatia; I-elud.s childrn aged h-li yeses
fertilitcy re tes; usmaly fiv-year ave-goo ending in 1960, 1970 ond 1975                      hut edjusted for differmet lengthe of primary edoratioa; for noutries with
for develping    outrle.                                                                      universl education.     -sr1l-n   ma   .....ad 1001 sin- 5      pupils aer balm
Populationl. geth rate (CM   - teta1 - Cmsp-sd annua     grovth ratas of mid-year               or shon   the official echool age.Y
population for 195:0-60, 160-7    and 1970-75.                                              Odbuated e-rolen .retic - secondary school - Campoted          above; secondary
Porualio  arwth rte  1) -urba  - Cmputd lIe gouchrateof ttal             ductIon rquire      at   . lat fmur Years at aPproed primary Lturutine;
population; differest defei.tioan    of urban areas   ey eff.rt caparbility of                 pronSde     . gnro1, vootional or teachebr training  oeatr-tious for pupils
dat   e      Cn Mmei.                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of ag.; correspondnCe, core         -r generally .mcluded.
Ura   =pltiont(5 Of tecall - Ratio of urban to Ctota      population; different             Years of ochoolme provided (fi- t and aerand 1.velel - Total years of
defimitims of urbee sas may effect comparbility nf dat.asnoag coutviae.                       onhonling; et secondary is_s, voctional iatrution maybe partially or
r spltel  ainded.
Assnl Z serutuc  lamecnt)  . Childre  (0-14 years), *  rking-age (15-64 y-are,                VealenIl enrelit C7. of a.eomdaeel - Votstis.sa         i.etitntims include
edrti(e 65 yemad ever) as per-etages Of mid-yea             pepulatgon.                    teebhirel, induetnia1 or ather pesg-m      ebieh spsr-t in&dpemd.mtly or a
Axefdependency ratio     R.Haio of population neder 15 and 65 and avr to those                  departooete of aecondsryirtuioa
oags15 through   4                                                                      Ido,  literacyest     l     ii-Lirt!tsteta dolts leble -c red and -ile) asper-
Ecanncao dependency er~io - Ratio of population under 15 and 6) and, onse toceo                          ftoaIdult poptlstion aged 1) ysers andoer
,cbs labor foCe,n    g   group of 1-64    eas
rallyelantoo-aosetrs  icaeultiv-. thou) - C     1.oel -iv  nunhr of ...ceptore       goos iec
of birCth-cont-oI device. under aus pices of notionel folly planoiog progrm                 P.r---   pec mom   lurban) - A-Cereg  onber of persona per roan in oncupied
since inetin                                                                                 convetiona    dwellings iorb e er...; duellinge esclude        o-emnn
Pamily plamanio` - uers Mto        are    ond    -pret of       ofmrrid     wnco                 tructures and unoccupied Parts.
Child-bearing age   115-44 yeses) sh   us  birth-controlI deicesto all inseredf             OC..p1ed dvsli.u without piond wetr 1%             .. Otpied convetions1 dwellings
so_en i, ems age grop.                                                                        in orbe   and rura   areas w.ithont inoide or otside piped uster facilitIes
asrperctge of       I olcuPied d-el1inga.
fpasloymet                                                                                     .....e to electrct         o al   dwline      -Cnvnins        dwsIliog   eth
T al.lbor lensc (th-ouad) - Ecn-     icsliy aCtive perCea     incldin    ermd                e1ectricty in ivn       qPre        asprcent mf t.ts1 dwelIItsgp -eubnad
forc.   an:d naploysd bnt anclding houseives         mtdents   ec.; defleittone               -ura   area..
in varou     coonries are nnt comparable.                                                   eRa-I dwelix      conncted to elotricity 15.1 - CanpuLsd a      above toe -or1
tahoe  torce in aoric.Itsra_it) -Agrioultoro1 labor faree fin terming, forestry.                 dwlinge onlY.
honti   ed fishing     soecetg          atto1 labor fsree.
Ononploye   (I of lebor fgores) t- Onpos        r   as      dfnda        oen     h            Cnuora   io
are able end willing ta teke e Job, out of a Job on a given day, ematnsd ant                Ra_dio rcet   r   fear thou pop) - All types Of receivers for redic brOsdC.sta
ot aJobb, and ...eking werk tine a specified atim-Os period     ot ....eeding one             to general public per thaneend of population; ...oIodra unlico...ed reniv-re
week; maY not he caparablebewn co7triss duettofdifferent definitions                          ie coutries end is years ahsn registration of radio sets was in effect;
ofumlyed sod source of dat., eg., aploysen         ffic    ttiarfcs.  sample             deta for recnt years may net be canparsh       since most coutries abolished
_orcys, CZnpnlsnry osaployamt inuac.licematg.
"yas"'Nes  Care  bar thon   Ong) - Pasnenger tarn canprlse mate    ears esating
Intone dietributien - Percentage Of private teems 1both in ...h and kind)                       Ieee then eight person; ..cludes anbulsoss, hsarses end military
recei-ed by richest 55, ricehest 205., pooreet 201, end poorest 401 of hoe-                    vehiclIes.
holde.                                                                                      flec tCicity  (kwh/yr par car) - Annua   tonsomption of industriel, earil
public and Pivate electricity in kil-utt hours per capite, gene.ra 1ly
Diatribution Of land nwnrahip - Percentages of land easd by wealthiest ill                       base.d on pred-ction data, sithout alwnefor loesin grids hut sun--
and pooreat 105. Of land oer.ing fee                                                                    mperte and espcrts Of ele-triolty.
tee=tit (ke/yr Par cap) -CPer capita ---uaI consuption in kitogem
Heslth and Ntrittion                                                                             esiae      fra  d-.etic productio I.Plus net imports of newprin t.
Poplaionpe  phsiian-  apuanon divided by nuber rf peecticiog
physlicia   qualified from a medical school atuniversity leve.



- 25 -                                                          ANNEX I(a)
95  ACua       1975d                                     1965-    1970 -   1975 -    1980 -
12_                  ~~~1970   19,75    1980      1985.W                     128
NATIONAL ACCOUISOS                                                                              ____     ____     ___
3-Year Aver~e at 1967- 196   Pries&  xcangrHtewAerh Hates                                  -As Percent of GDY
Gross Domes"tic ProdLuct           1,6       ,7        ,1         235       269      3729       7.1       52    3        .7  6        108.3   104.2    106.2
Gain   from Terms of Trade()         -80        10      -79        -102      -157     -301        .       .         .         .        -8.3    -4.2     -6.2
Gross Domestic Income                                 iWl         2,272     252      348         91      47         .         .        0 r0            67
Import (intl. N175)                  331      547       705         875       944.  1,149      10.6      5.2       6.o       4.0     -34.2    -37.7    -37.1
E orts   '  Cimport capacity)      350      574      _Z2          853       042  l..aL4     10.4.     4.8       4.5       5.2      IL.               352~2.6
Resource Gap                19~~~~~~i   27      20         -22       -IO      15        .        .         .         .        2.0      1.0     - 1.5
Consumption Expenditures             753    1,151     1,421       1,714     1,925   2,608       9.0      4.3       6.3       6.3       77.8    75.9     75.3
Investment    "  (intl. stocks)      196      310       432         580       656      806      9.6      6.9       8.7       4.2      20.2     23.1     25.3
Domestic Savings                     216      336       452         558       616      820      9.4      6.o       6.4       5; 9      22.3    24.1     24.2
National Savings                     169      255       340         424       469      653      8.6      5.9       6.6       6.9       17.5    18.1     18.t
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                            As Percent of Total
IMports
Capital goods                       61      111       315         637       750    1,292     12.7     23.4      18.9      11.5      23.9     27.1     30-
Intermediate gooda (wLfuals)        41       85       210         307       397      875     15.7     19.8      13.6     17.1       16.1     18.0     16.1
Pixels and related materials        13       18       157         204       266      514      617     54.8      11.1     14.0        5.1     13.5     1o.8
Consumer goods                     140      218       482         799     1,052    1,594      9.3     17.2      16.9       8.7      54.9     41.4     42.7
Total March. Ismorts (elf)       -1m        13-17T9i77                    2_,7    4-27!      11.1     22.0      16.2     11.6      ioT       oo ioo-  0.o
"%in agricultural productsl'         213       342      745       1,253     1,414    1,945      9.9     i6.8      13.7       2.5       74.5    sg.8     57.8
Other agricultural producta         17        26       45          91       120      241      8.9     11.6      21.7       5.7        5.9     3.6      4.9
Manufactured goods                  4o       100      358         500       710    1,587     20.0     29. Ofl   14.6       7.3       14.0    28.8     29.0
All other goods                     16        29       97         153       204      663     12.7     27.3      16.0       6.o_       5.6     7.9      8.3
Total Merch. Exports (fob)                 - 47    1i2rU3      17,997    27r M   4TW3~      11.7     20.2      14.5       4.2     170.0    100  1    00-o =6.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1967 -6q   100
Export Price Index               78.9     103.9     184.2       239      267      352         5.7     12.2       7.8      5.8
Import Price Index               .91.5     98.7     241        273       313      444         1.5     19.2      9.0       7.2
Terms of Trade Index             86.2     105.3      76.3        85       86       79         4.1     -6.7       2.0     -1.8
Exports Volume Index             88.8     114       167         204      225      313         s.       7.9       6.2      6.9
VAT". ADDED NY SECTOR               AnLnual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rattes            Average Annual G-rowth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      366       426       476         542      612      8'939      3.1      2.2       5.3      5.9      35.1     24.4     23.6
Industry and Mininig              173      287       414        573       667      971       lo.6      7.6     10.0       7.9      16.6     21.3    25.6
Service                          502       766     1 057      1,268     i44141                8 .8     6.7      6.o       6.s      4,3.     54.3    50.1
Total                  t7~~~~~~~~I-, 1 679g ft         27, B3   263        T          7.3      5.6       6.7       6.7    07-Th    6887-o   f887o
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                          As Percent of GDP
(Cen.tral Go'vernment)
Current Receipts                  213      297       377         444       515      697       6.9      4.9      6.4       6.2      20.3     19.4     21.0
Current Expenditures              155      231       307         338       573     476        5.3      5. 9     4.3       - 5.3    14.3     15.8     14.5
Budgetary Savings                 57     -76          70      __Y        _733      3021       2.6      1.2     15.2       9.3       5.5      3.6     5.5
Other, Public Sector              24        75        95         151       164     212       25.7      4.8     11.5       5.3       2.5      4.9      6.1
Public Sector Investment          90       158       296         3~93     453      508       11.9    13.4       8.9       2.3       3.5     15.2    17.6
DETAIL ON                                   IS $ millions
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                     Actual        Prelia.    Eat.    Proj.         PLTRLIC SECTOR                         at end 1968 P and ER
As % Total. Current Expend.)                  1965  7_0      1975     1976     1990          INVESTMENT PROGRAM4                        Plan, 1971-75
Education                                17.9      I   2 7   5.3     2%T7      22.0                                                                   i of t-otal
Other Social Services                    10.4     11.4      11.8      1.2.0    i4.o          Agricultural develspment                   3419               31
Agriculture                               4.6      5.2        3.6      3.5      4.o          Economic infrastructure                    561                50
Public Works                             13.0     10.3        6.5      6.5      5.0            - Power                           134              12
Other Economic Services.                  3.5      7.4       10,2     10.0     10.0            - Industry                         69                6
Administration end Defense               37.0     28.8       21.9     22.0     25.0            - Transport end Telecom.          221               20
Other                                   TfSV6     15.5       20,?     20.0     2~0._O          - Urban Development               137               12
Total Current Expenditures             100-.0   100.0      1M00.     100.0    100.0          Education and Cultsre                       101                9
Health snd Social Develop.                   53                5
SEL.ECTED INDICATORS                                1960-      1965-     1970-   1973-         Administration infrastructure               46                 4
(calculated f'rom 3-year averaged data)             1965       1970      1975    1978          Studies and Research                         13 
Average ICOR                                        TW          r   F   J  T   T   W                                                    1,123               100
Import Elasticity                                   0.8        1.4       0.9      0.9          FINANCING
MEarginal DDmestic Savings Nate                     0.18       0.22      0.30     0.25             Public Sector Savings                  557                49.6
Marginal National Savings Rate                      0.12       o.l6      0.24     0.20             Program aid counterpart
Foreign Project Aid                    566                50.6
Total                                1,123               100.0
LABRG FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Porte                                   Value Added Per Worker -17       69  Prices & Ext. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                  In Millions           ofTtl              19 65 - 73        In U.S.Dollars       Prent of Alverige          19    -
195    97-3   1492       T  197~3  Growth Rate                     1973        1965       1973      GrwhRt
Agriculture                     1,743      2,093     85.7       82.8          3.2              209       215         40.4       30.6           0.3
Industry                          143        234      7.6        9.2>         6.4           1,210      1,513        234.0      215.2          -1.0
Service                           127I       201      6.7        8.0          593,95                   4,3          7~64.6     687.8           2.6
Total                           2,013      2,527    100.0      10-0.0         3.7             517        703        100.0      100.0           3.9
not applicable           nl:. or neglig2Sle             y/   Coffee, cocoa, timber, palm oil, palm kernel, copra, pineapple.                        February 19T77
act  vata'latle       --  eFt that. hal'
sma-llast c



-26 -ANNEX I(a)
"ano rw  n   nMU= uWSamnm       AND urn
(enea i edia.of .S. deflUn at cirrent price.)
Avg. la
ActuAl                      Rstimated                                  rjected                                )brwtb Rate
1971 ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~ ~12L5                                          197        197                                197l 5! iI 1iE.
SUWM BUNC SfOF 07pAinrrS
Exporte (inc. NFES)                 596.2      718.1      1,000.9    1, 386.2     1,455.4      1,811.2    2,1i68. 8  2,281.6     2,53.8.0   2,811.3     3,171.5       14.s
606.8                 1,C5538    1,307.2      I,554.2     1,754.1     2, 078.3   2,372.6    2,735.0     2~,980.6   3.163,_8       i2.6
-10.0  I*      -           i=5-rr. gr                           90        -:91.1     -13-7.1    -169.2        ?7.
Interest (cat)                      -11.2      -16.3       -24.6       -34.9        -55.2       -69.8       -84.5      -98.4     -117.1      -151.7     -190.4         23.7
Direct Icwtectt Ircce               -51.4      -42.4       -80.!.,     -83.6        -98 0       -1o6.8     -i16.4     ui6.9       -i58.3     -i20.8      -162.9         8 9
Worke' Rooitt aca                   -67.6      -92.4       -123.5     -126.8       -142.3      -152. 3      162.9     -172.7      -183.1     -192.2     -199.9          5.8
cat)          ~~~~~~26.0  24.         31j        40.8          48.5         6 -24528                6                   P85         :LI         -.
as cc ~~~rr.  cciantc  -rr                        nrr-12       =.I                                                                                -.6
Private Direct BDueeemwt             14.8        14.7        48.0       27.9         29.4        6o.o        67.2      113 3       i66.0      138.1      10557         2308
Offlicil Capitel (heats              13.0       13.1         17.1       14.6         1.8.7       19.6        19.6       19.6        19.6       19.6       19.6          0.3
Public MI?T Lna
abrn.cb,at.                       107.3       82.7        228.0      218.8        332.6       378.8       363.2      558.0       632.3      632.7      533.6          8.1
-Rp   act.                         -29.1      -38.6       .143        -76.6        -8s.8      .425.0      1i24.0     -152.6     -215.2      -238.2     Z2F69         -25.7
No irmir-t2    .                    -717n9rI37                         1872-837                  937           2~     4r555       417.1          .5 06P      9          1.0
Other (SIT Loans
Dlsbvrs.aats         -           -           -          -            -            -          -          ~    ~    ~~~~~     ~~~~- 42.4  1o3.B  144.2
-R.P.nmt.                             -5.3  ..6   -2.7        -4.2         -93          -----                                                   -6.5        -7.0
Net D0 uvnt,43iD                        F        Z           -2i7      72            9.3          ---                              42.4      1035.8     138.2
CCrip in frt Raeco,'sn..71.9                                  0.        327.3       i6.          98.2       -8r-.4     -81.9      -40.0       -2-0.5     -15.3
Gr...                      ~~~~~~89.5  87.2        88.4,      65.7        155 8
Olfical.1 NWct & Es.nt-151.e         13.0       15.1         17.1       57.0         19 1                                                     Atn -1    &.         A2
15R2                               27.5       17.5          8.4       27.6        135.5     PS        btot.&     hre     311.7    399.9     578.6    776.7       969.2
IDA                                 -                      -7.5        --
Otlhr                               5.9        16.9        32.8       32.3                    Interest ce Public Debt     15.6     19.3      27.9     38.3        56.1
Other IPtfl.tha-ra                  -           -           -          -                      ISePaMUeUi Ca Public Debt   29.1     38.6      44.3     76.6        82.3
Goermet.                           i..          62         2.         48.          51.        Stal Poblic Debt erie       44.7     579       72.2    114.9       136
Suppli-r                           26.7        45.5        72.91      89.9        174.2       Othr D-t Serec     (not)     8.3       5.6      2.7      4.8         4.7
FinAncia   - toi Wuime             43.0        62.5       119.1      130.6         86.7       Retel Debt Su-viae (ct)     33.0      63.5     74.9     119.1      i4.
36ad.                               -          -9.0                    -            -
Thiblic InC.s ce1                               --                     -            -        -do een Export amp      (8
TotL. Public KUT. EGo..             119h6      i-T-        -27r-       328.8                    Public Debt Smrroc           7.3      8.i.      7.2      8.o         8.9
KITERlqkb DM"                  ~~~Actual Debt OutetaMiag cc . 31.    5                 Tctai. Deb Servi.e           8.9       5.5      7.3       8.3        9.2
557)3951. DES?  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Dsbrsd nl                     Percent                     EmO-Direct Diet. Dee.       13.9     14.7      13.3     14.1        15.5
Itrld 3aak                                    72.5                   7.5                      nereg Torms ef Public Debt
IDA                                            1.3                    0.1
Other ?UOtlllt,rjl                            65.5                    6.7                         t.a      DO44                          8      48        52           8
Gcer.-  tci                                  235.4                  24.3                        A-rt, as   Dow               4.4      4.8       4.8      30.2        5.5
GoonS) eve                       2~~~~        ~         ~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~69.2  27.8Amsi-Snw8                     96        7       1.5.
Fi-acila 1atitttione                         271.3                   28.0Deta,&Dsbrd
P-l-Debts a.e.i                           23.2                    2.4                       eas SPablic Debt --D          3.0      4.4       3.0      6.7         7.
Total PublIc 1461T Debt                      969.2                  10.0                           MS   Public Debt Service  1.3       2.6      3.3       2.7        4.5
Oth.r M41? Debt.                               M.f                                                  Debt Out. & Disbursed
Short -tre Debt (dieb. c-up)                   .                                                  a S Public Debt O&D        -         -        -         -
of % P-b1ICe Debt Serrice -, 
-lt aspmiable                                                 twr estimateterur 1
-ot aeslblab.                                              -   i ar megliglble                                                                                  F~rsy1T
nat availble .ep   tertly                                     Iwec  tlehanltua  the
but included in ttal.                                        flss'llect emit shown



-27 -                                        ANNEX I (b)
TABLE 3A
UPPER VO. A         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND  AREA  (THOU  KM2)--                - - - - -  - - - - - -  -  --  - - --   - - - -  -
LANO-----      - AREA (THOUUPPER VOLTA                                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       274.2                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      191.3                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          MALI            MAURITANIA     SENEGAL***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      50.0*      70.0*      110.0/a*           70.0*      210.0*      270.0*
POPULATIUN AND VITAL STATISTICS
____________ __________________
POPULATION (MID-YB, MILLION)             4.3        5.4         6.2/a             5.1         1.2         4.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        16.0      20.0        23.0/a              4.0         1.0        22.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         23.0      28.0        32.07a             12.0         3.0        39.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          49.6      49.6       48.5                49.6        44.9        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           32.7      28.9       25.8                27.8        24.7        24.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        182.0         ..        ..               120.0          *        156.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (fRS)        32.2      35.5       38.0                37.2        41.0        40.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..        3.2       3.2                 3.3         2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (x)
TOTAL                                  2.6**     2.2        1.8**               2.2         1.8         2.6
URBAN                                             4.5       4.6/b               4.3         5.1         6.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            9.0       11.3      12.1                12.1        45.3        29.0
AtE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.6       43.0       43.0                49.1        41.8        41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.1       54.0       54.0                49.3        55.1        54.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.3        3.0       3.0                 1.6         3.1         3.9
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9       0.9                 1.0         0.8         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                O.8/a      0.8/a       ..                0.9/a       1.4/a       1.2/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         ..         ..                 .           *
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                 *            -
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          2500.0    3000.0                         2800.0       360.0      1600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)          92.0       89.0         ..               91.0        85.0        73.0
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)             ..        3.0/b       ..                 ..          ..         7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST   5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                  .
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS               .-         *-         *                  *           *
LOWEST   20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..          ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS
- OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                       92760.0    59570.0             41490.0     17060.0     16640.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        4370.0/bC 4230.       4250.0              3860.0      4280.0      2680.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           IB10. OMa1 670. 0 /C  l17O.O/C           1390.0/b    2760.0/b     810.0/b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          85.0      78.0       78.0                92.o        89.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               66.0      66.0       59.0/d 09.0                     89.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND RULSE             .      22.0/      d                   23 6 /c     44.0/c      28.0/c
DEATH RATE (/THOU    AGES 1-4             ...
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         8.0       13.0      14.0                20.0        16.0        3B.0/d
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      0.5         10        2030                            20         1.7,
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                                   2.0        15.071e
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              13.0      13.0       13.0                12.0        13.0       13.
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT                                                                                       0
(x OF SECONDARY)                     21.0       15.0       17.0               40.0 o90
ADULT LITERACY RATE I%)                  7.0               .              .          .       10.        10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (UR8AN)
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (i)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS ;PER THOU POP)           1.0       16.0       17.0               12.0        47.o       69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           04         X 0        1.5                1.0         40          9.o
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             2.0        5.O        9.0               11.0        63. o        3   
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                                                                      .         7.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 28 -                                                  ANNEXI (b)
NOTE
Unleso otherwise noted, data for 1965 refer to any year between 1959 and 19.61, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Mloat Recent Eatiotte betwee
1973 and 1975.
GNP pat capita data are bha.ed an the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 besia).
-a Sue to moigration population growth rate is lover then the rate of natural incr.eae..
*00  Senegal has have selected aa an objective coutry for Upper Volta since its 1970 lGNP ia about foot tims         that of Upper Volta's; they both ore in
th. e a    geographical area (Sahelian region), chars a seillar eantary eyita and have the am         ano-eia growth tote in the period     1960-70, and
have the aen literacy tote of 5-10 percar.
UPPER VOLTA     1960    Ia  geLtia of population under 15 end 65 end wavr to total labor force;        /b  1963;     Ic  Including ..aaietaot nutece;
/i Govrnmewnt hoapital eatablialenento.           -
1970    Ia   Ratio of population under 15 end 65 ad over to total labot fotos;         lb  In urban areas about 20 percent;       In  Govermet
hjsoital establioshments; Ld 1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIKATE:      /a  1976;    /b   1970-73;    Ic   Govraant hospital sotablislnnento, 1971;        /d  1969-71 averge.
KA&L           1970    /aRatio of pepulation under 15 and 65 end over to total        labor force;     /b  Gowermoenet hospital eetohlilhaenre;      /0  1964-66.
MAURITANIA      1970    /aRatio of populatio        nd,er 15 end 65 end over to toa   labor force;     lb GOovrersmnt hoapital eatobliehenato;       Ic  196.4-66.
SENEGAL         1970    IaRati.onf population under 15 and 65 end novr to ttotal. labor force;         lb  Goetr hoapita1 eetahliohe,ntts ;          I   1964-66;
Id  Unedjuated;     /a  Lower secondary level.
R5, Sopttber 16, 1977
DEFINITIONS OF' SOCIA  ThICATOcl
Land Area (then ke2)                                                                   Population pat cutaiog person - Population divided by n,mb,r of praclirir
Total1  Total surf.e area -oprising land area ad intend wetar.                           male and f-1al graduate nns     "trained' or cs.rtifisd" nurees. .. ad
Agri..- Moot tenant estimate of agrinultura1 area uad tnporarily or patin-               auniliary pere--l with training cronain
neetly tot crope, p-a-ra, market & hitchen gardens or to lie fellow                  Potul.tin ear h-apital bed - Poplation divided by naber of hospital beda
avilable In public and private gsnerol and epcialleed hoapirol and
GR Pant opita CUll) - GNPi per capita setiantee at current marker price,                 rehabilitation, oaortr; acludas norelig h-.n and oatablialhaents fur
calculated by am     -on-rict athd aa World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                nuatodia1 ad preventive oae.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                            Per c.pitta supply nf celoriesa (1 of -sauirstaeta) - Cnpoted fra energy
squiv-1-t of net food supplias avilable in country per .spit. per day:
Ppouleti-en nd vital o tatiatic:                                                          -voileblo supplies conprise d-nstic production, Imports I... nporte, and
fpoplation (old-year oilion)    Anu of July firer:  if not avilable, average             change  in amok; net eupplies secude anImal feed, seeds, quantities used
of ris end-y.or aetioatne; 1160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                   in food proreesig ond looses in distribution; requiramtnr   wore eniae.d
by FAO beesd on physIologicol nando fur no-Io activity ad heelth conid-
Papularbon domainy -pr snuar he - Mid-yest popu1laton per equat kiloetrr                 eriog emvrtl temperature, body -aighte, aoo and sac distributiono Of
(100 hectrare) Of total area,                                                          population, and allowing 1X for waste at boashold 1s-a.
Population denaitr   per samare he of goric. lend - Coputed e above for                 Pot cscita supply of Protein (croo  per day) - Protein conts,t fi par capita
agritalwtua  lend only.                                                                net oupply of fond par day; net supply of food is defined e. above; raquito-
aente for all countries earebliahed by U104 Eoanunic Re..e.rcb Servi..a
Viral sttistics                                                                          provide tar a ninIa    alloanc   of 60 or-n of total protein per day, end
Crude birth rate partrhouaeod. vrg,      Annual lice birtha per thouaad of                20 grean of animal and pulse protnin, of which IS grn   ahuld he anImal
mid-poet population; ten-year arittantic oorages -nding in 1960 and 1970,               protein; these  tandarda are lovr than thuac of 75 gr-n Of total protein
and five-year overage endiog in 1975 for moot recen.t estimate,                        and 23 gr-     ocf animal protein asaen averoga for the world, propoed by FAG
Crude death rate per thou .and. av-race - Annua deanha per thousand of mid-year           In the Third World Food Soovy.
population; trenyeaterithtic avegaga ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                Per capita nroteio supply fr-an   - ania  nd pulse - Protein supply of fnod
year  vegending in 1975 for moat recan.t estimate,                                      derived Ira a.nial.soad pulses in gras. per day.
Infant mortalit  rate f/thou) - Annual deatha Of inants undar one year of ace           Death rats C/thou) acne 1-4 - Annual deotho per thousand in age growp l-"
per thanead lion birth..                                                                years, to nhildran in thie age group; ouggee rod aanindicator of
Life .epeotaney at birth (yre) - Avarage mnber of yearn of life remaining Or              malntrition.
birth; uamaly fiv-yea    averagon ending in 1960, 1970 and 1971 for develop-
GrZas 'reprodutio  rr    -IAvraoe nuber of live daughtarn. a wu..t wIll hear            Adiooted cor1lacet ratio - primary echool - Enrn1loset of all agee as pe-
Ic her no.-I reproductive perio   IfseIprnos          ran      g-eeii                    atgeo      day      hool-ege population; includes cbildram aged 6-li y-ur
fertility ratee; uou_lly five-year avre     ending in 160,t1970'l ad'1975               bu  -duted for different lengtha of primary education; for roontries with
for dvalopiag contrica.                                                                 univeral education, enrolent may eccod 1001 aton      en   pupile are below
Population growth rtot  Itl) - total - Cunpoid annual growth rem- of mid-year             or abovethe official scoo    ago.
pplto fa1950-60, 1960-70 andC1970-70.                                         Admnetd ec    I-en   ai   - oecandary achuol - Coeputad as abcv; s.condory
Population orowhlrate li) -r uan -_puted lube growth rare of rural                        education reqires at    ..t Iconr yers Of approvd primary inatru-tlon;
population; different defiolitona o.f urhan arnas nay affect .csoperebility of          providee general, -ontionel or eocher training ite,rructiom    for pupilt
dateeon     aoutirte.                                                                   of 12 to 17 peors of age; correspondence corssr       gene.rally ..nluded.
Ore  =puultio  ft, of total) - Ratio of urban to rural population; difforent          Years of achooLima provided (firer and aecond Ievela) - Total years of
dafinitin   of urban area may effort onp-arbility Of data amog canotrima.               enboaling; at secondary level, vctione    iatrction may ho partially Or
A  tructuta Carar)t     Children fl-14 yearc), *wrking-age (15-64 pua-),             Vonatioal enrollant Il of secondary) - VecattonI in-ti-tuios include
and retired (65 yera and over)a    percentages of mid-year population,                  technical, Induatrial or other progr-m   hmh operate independently or s
M.e dpandenry rai       al    fppltion under 15 and 65 aod ovr to these                   dopamoosots of oecondary institutions.
of agee 15.t'hrough 6.Adult literacy rate it) - Literate adu1to (able to read and write) as pa-
Oconaic depneoyratio - Ratio of ppoplation under 15 and 65 and ovr to.. etago of total adul population aged 15 your                        end ovnr.
the labor forc ilo age group of 15-64 yeara.
rally plnim_    -  cc   ore icu_,lt ive. than) - Cunulativo nnb-r of ac..nptor          Houainog
of birth-control device  under .-api.e. of national family planning prgrec            Perso   para  re (urban)' - A-rerge cber of pereaono per tre in onrupied
anaicption                                                                         covetional d_nliga in urban     r...; dwellings occlude   on-permaoet
Fally p=    igmo! - onre Ct of married wn)-Porcetagne Of married wea         of           atrutureo end un_ocupiod parte.
child-hearing age (15-44 yeore)  hoc use birth-control d-vicec to all married         Occped    wlinsuruu         ldwae !         - O-cpiod convortiona1 dwIliogo
tonn   in  n  ago group.                                                             irluran and rura   ara     ithout inaide or oot.id. piped aatrr factitine
.o percen.tage of elI oncupted d'oIligs
nnplov,anr                                                                              Au... to ele-triitry ft of all d.elin.ga) - convetional dw1iegs with
Total labor force (thoonand) - Etoaneically active persona, including armed               olc--itity In living quarters as perc..ec of total d-ol1ingo it urban and
forces end uoenpleyed but -ludiug houa,i-oa, stuodenta, etc.; definitiono               rua-  aes
in vri"aocotrtie     are nor camparabis.                                              Rural dunl.iLga connected to el1-tritity CT) - Canputed as abovr for rural
Labor force in acrinulture, CXI - Agricultural labor forte (in farming, forestry,         dlioga oly.
hunt.ing and fiebing) as percentage of total labor force.
IlePloycd CT of labor farce) - Unepltoyed era unuaIly defined ao pers ona who         Conauntion
are able ad willIing to take a job," t of ajob on      gtfven day, remined out        Radio receivers Crthoupo)-~       All rypa of raci-ra for radio broadcaotn
of a job, and ..eabing work fur a apecifled minim   priod not n....ding ann             t   Eeca   pubfli  pot thouoand of population; ..mludee onliceneedreicn
-ka; may not be caparable betwee     cotriea due' ccdifferoer doinitiane                in countrise end in yeara h..0 registration of radio aeto .eo In effect;
of uneployed and soorca of data, e.g., employment office o.taitics . naple              data for recent yoars may nor ho reparable aicce moot -onttie abolish.d
aurvys, c-pula..y unemployment mnnurac.                                                 Ilcen l u..g.
P,,enanuntroara Car thou pop) - Pasenugec   .r tar  oprioe motor care seating
inom.diatbryibution - PercentageB of private iun    (both in roeh and bind)                untasIght pereon; e..cIudes abuloce..         herse   and military
rcie byrichee t 5%t. rihoat it20, poorest 202, and pocreuc ill of bonac-          vehiclo..
holds.                                                                                tEctricir   (kh/    ra    cop) - Annual conoteption, of industrial,  --erial.
pu'blicadkp'rivate electricity ie kilovatt hanra pera .pita, gene.rally
Diatribution of land  -w  rhip - P-rc  tagto  of 1aod ownd by -nlthie- ilO                be..od an production data,  iihcut a11oaoc   for leases in grids boo allo--
and poorest lOt of land owes.ig for imparts and emporta of electricIty.
INvopint (khe/yr pet -p) - Pot c..pita annual con    ption in kilogran
Health and Nutrition                                                                      entimatd Iron deceti produotice pica ent import of newprint.
Populo,tio  at phyaician - Population divided by emcrite  f proctiri.g
phyolin    qualified fra a nedical achol at oni-orait,' lvel.



- 29 -
UPPER VOLTA                                           ANNEX I(b)
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Average Annual Growth Ratl
1967         1970   1          19    7 2  3  197I*   MY                1970-1975
(in millions of US dollars at 1967-69 prices and exchange rate)
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product           310.5    325.6   337.4    336.2    334.2    361.5   391.6                  3.8
Grains from Terms of Trade         0.2    -4.1     -1.6      58       3.4    -1.5     -0.9
Gross Domestic Income            310.7    321.6   335.9    342.0    337.6    359.9   390.7                  4.2
Imports (incl. NFS)               61.4    64.4     85.1     97.1     95.1    77.3    112.5                 14.2
Exports (import capacity)        -28.1   -29.3    -31.7    -40.9    -37.3   -31.5    -38.2                  6.8
Resource Gap                      33.3    35.1              56.1     57.8      45.8                        20.2
Total Consumption                315.5    319.4   346.o    352.0    345.6    357.6   417.2                  5.6
Investment                        28.5    37.3     43.4     46.2     49.8    48.2     47.8                  5.3
National Savings                  18.6    23.8     20.1     23.4    -18.9    21.5     -1.7
Domestic Savings                  -44.7    2.2    -10.1    -10.0    - 8.o     2.3    -26.5
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR
Agriculture                      137.9    136.3   137.1    131.4    133.0    149.7   157.0                  3.0
Industry                          44.8     50.1    55.4     57.8     60.7     64.3    70.9                  7.2
Services                         113.1    122.1   126.9    129.0    121.2    120.4   134.2                  2.1
Total                            295.8    308.4   319.4    318.2    314.9    334.5   362.1                  3.3
LABOR rORrF                                                                                   OUTPUT PER WORKER
In Thousands of Persons           % of Total           In millions of US$ or 1976 % price
1974*                         1974*                     197.4*      1975*
Agriculture                          2,830                           95.5                      .72          46
Industry                                45                            1.5                    1,956       1,262
Services                                8                             3.0                    1,851       1,194
2,94                           o100.0                    155         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(in billion of CFAv: current)                               1972     1973     1974    1975
Current Receipts                                           11.46    12.92    15.14   19.60
Current Expenditure                                         9.69    11.26    11.78   20.63
Current Surplus                                             1.77      6       36     -1.03
Capital Expenditure                                         1.78     1.27     1.26    2.00
External Assistance (Net)                                   0.55     o.68     0.92    1.65
Overall BDlance                                             0.56     1.07     3.02   -1.38
PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT                            In billions of CFAF: current                    % of Total
1971     1972     1973    1974                   1971 - 74
Primary Sector                                      1.14     1.5      2.2      3.7                     17.3
Industry and Services                               1.4      0.9      5.6      4.4                     24.1
Economic Infrastructure                             3.6      4.8      6.5      8.5                     46.1
Social Infrastructure                               0.5      o.6      0.8      0.9                      5.5
Research and Studies                                0.5       -       0.3      0.5                      2.7
Administrative Infrastructure                        _       o.8      0.7      0.7                      4.3
Total                                               7.4      8.7     16.1     18.7                    100.0
FINANCING                                          1971     1972     1973     1974                  1971 - 74
Domestic                                            3.1      3.1      3.7      5.5                     30.3
of which   Gov. Budget                             (1.4)   (1.1)    (1-3)    (1.0)                    (9.5)
Foreign                                             4.3      5.6     12.4     13.2                     69.7
Public                                             (4.0)   (4.3)   (10.2)   (11.1)                   (58.3}
Private                                            ( 3)   (1.3)   ( 2.2)   ( 2.1)                  (Ui.4)
Total                                               7.4      8.7     i6.i     18.7                    100.0
* Preliminary
Not Applicable



- 30 -
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOW                                           AM=EX I(b)
BALANCE OF PAYMENT                                                                                      TRADE DFTAIL
(in millions of current US$)            1970     1972     1974     1975                    (in millions of constant 1967-69 US$)
EXPORTS                      19T0-T5 I
Exports (ind. NFS)                       32.1     46.8     67.7     81.7    Livestock                      10.0       33.9
Imports (d. NS)                          70.6    111.0    166.2    240.3    Cotton                          6.2       21.0
Resource Balance ( X-M        )         -38.5 -64   .2    -98.5   -58.      Groundnuts                      1.5        5.1
Other Goods                    11.8       40.0
Net Factor Service Income                14.4     23.9     30.7     35.7    Total                          29.5      100.0
Interest (Net)                        1.0      1.5      1.8      2.0
Direct Investment Income             -1.4     -3.0     -4.7     -6.o    IMPORTS
Workers Remittances                  14.8     14.3     33.6     39.7    Food and Beverages             19.8       20.0
Net Current Transfer (+)                  9.3      4.4     10.4     17.3    Petroleum,Oil,Lubricants        6.5        6.6
Current Account Balance                 -14.8    -26.0     57T    -105.6    Other Intermediate Goods       36.2       36.7
Machinery and Equipment        36.3        36.7
Direct Investment (Net)                   1.0      2.6      5.0      5.0    All Other Goods
Official Capital Grant                   21.4     31.3     53.2     84.2    Total                          98.8      100.0
Public M and LT Loan Disbursements        1.5      4.7     16.7     22.5
Public M and LT Loan Repayments          -1.6     -1.5     -2.6     -3.6
Net Public M and LT Loan                   0       3.2     14.1     18.9
Net Transactions with IMF                 O.8       0        0        0
Short-term Credit (net)                   6.2      O.4      0.5      1.0
Capital Transactions N.E.I               -4.3     -9.1     -6.7    -10.5
Change in Reserves (- = increase)        -9.4     -2.4     -8.7      7.0
Reserves - End of Period
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
(in millions of current US dollars and end year)
1972     1973     1974     1975
Outstanding Debt                                  41.3    123.5    146.5    185.6
of which: Disbursed                            (18.7)   (29.9)   (46.o)   (62.9)
Debt Service                                       2.0      3.0      3.7      5.0
Interest                                       ( 0.5)   ( 0.7)   ( 1.1)   ( 1.4)
Principal                                      (1.5)    ( 2.3)   ( 2.6)   ( 3.6)
Debt Service as % of Exports                       4.3      5.3      5.4      6.1
Debt Service as % of GDP                           0.5      0.7      0.7      0.8
IBRD AND IDA LENDING AND ITS SHARE IN PUBLIC DEBT
(in millions of current US dollars and end year)
1971     1972     1973     1974     1975
IDA Outstanding and Disbursed             0        1.6      3.2      5.5     11.4
IDA Share in Total: (%)
Commitments                            0       37.1     11.2     50.6     32.2
Gross Disbursements                   0.2      33.2     12.2     13.7     25.8
Net Disbursements                     0.4      48.7     15.1     16.3     30.7
Debt Service                           0         0        0        0       0.9
Total Debt                            0.1       8.5     10.9     12.0     18.1
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1971     1972     1973     1974     1975     1976
US$1.00 = CFAF                         227.03   252.21   222.70   240.50   214.32   245.00



- 31 -
ANNEX II(a)
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of August 31, 1977)
US$ Millions
Loan or                                                  (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year    Borrower         Purpose          Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
Eight       Loans   Fully Disbursed                   45.5
667-2-IVC    1975   Ivory Coast      Education         2.2                  0.3
686-IVC      1970   Ivory Coast      Cocoa             5.3                  0.7
760-IVC     1971    SODEPALM         Oil Palm &        5.1                  0.2
Coconut
761-IVC     1971    Ivory Coast      Highways II      20.5                  0.2
837-IVC      1972   Ivory Coast      Highways III     17.5                  2.2
938-IVC      1973   SOCATCI          Rubber            8.4                  2.1
406-IVC      1973   Ivory Coast      Highways IV               7.5          2.7
981-IVC      1974   Ivory Coast      Telecom-         17.4                 17.1
munications
1069-IVC    1975    Ivory Coast      Cocoa II         20.0                 17.2
1076-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast      Abidjan           9.0                  7.3
Sewerage
1977-IVC    1975    Ivory Coast      Cotton           31.0                 29.1
1124-IVC    1975    Ivory Coast      Tourism           9.7                  9.1
1125-IVC    1975    Ivory Coast      Education II      5.0                  3.5
1161-IVC    1975    Ivory Coast      Highways V       43.0                 28.1
1162-IVC    1975    CCI              DFC               5.6                 5.6
1177-IVC    1975    BIDI             DFC               8.0                 8.0
1297-IVC/1  1976    CIMAO            Industry          3.5                 3.5
1347-IVC/l   1976   Ivory Coast      Urban Dev.       30.0                30.0
1348-T-
IVCIA  1976   Ivory Coast       Urban Dev.       14.0                14.0
1382-IVCII   1977   SODEPALM         Oil Palm IV      20.0                20.0
1484-IVC/1   1978   Ivory Coast      Water Supply     16.0                16.0
TOTAL                                      336.7     7.5       216.9
of which has been repaid             11.5       -
TOTAL now outstanding                     325.2      7.5
Amount sold                     5.2
of which has been repaid   2.9         2.3      -
TOTAL now held by Bank & IDA              322.9      7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                         214.2      2.7       216.9
/1   Not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II(a)
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of August 31, 1977)
Year     Obligor                        Type of       Loan   US Dollars   Total
Business               Equity
1965     Banque Ivoirienne              Industrial      -      204,000   204,000
de Developpement             Development
Industriel                  Bank            _
1977    Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.       Textiles               880,000   880,000
Total gross commitments                        -    1,084,000 1,084,000
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                    -         -         -
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                  -    1.084,000 1.084.000



- 33 -
ANNEX 11(a)
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 760           First Oil Palm and Coconut Projects:   Three loans for a
total of US$17.1 million of June 13. 1969; Closing Date:
December 31. 1975. Second Oil Palm and Coconut Projects:
Two loans for a total of US$7.0 million of June 22, 1971;
Closing Dates: June 30, 1975. and November 30, 1977.
These projects are being implemented satisfactorily and are almost fully dis-
bursed. The oil mills financed in these projects processed about 220,000 tons
of fruits in 1974. The planting programs are proceeding well.
Ln. No. 686           Cocoa Prolect:  US$7.5 million Loan of June 5. 1970;
Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1970; Closing Date:
October 31. 1977.
The Cocoa Loan has been amended to reduce the number of hectares to be rehabil-
itated. Difficulties arose in supervising large numbers of farmers who used
project inputs to treat non-project cocoa. The Government agreed to substan-
tially reduce the size of the rehabilitation program. (See Memorandum to the
Executive Directors R73-74 of April 13, 1973.) The project was originally
scheduled to be completed in September 1976. However, with the signing of
the Second Cocoa Project (Ln. 1069-IVC), administration of the two has been
combined and an estimated 3,200 ha of cocoa plantings were transferred from
the first to the second project. Savings of US$2.2 million resulting from
the amendment (R73-74) and the merging of the two projects were cancelled
at the date of signature of the second project. Physical execution of the
first project is therefore considered to be completed. The final disburse-
ment has been delayed due to a confusion over documentation requirements and
processing by the Government external debt agency. When this disbursement,
and the final payment of capitalized interest have been made, approximately
US$200,000 would remain for cancellation.
Ln. No. 761           Second Highway Project:   US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
Execution of the project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975. The
funds remaining under the loan are being used to finance the supplementary
urban studies for Abidjan, initiated under the Third Highway Project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II(a)
Ln. No. 837           Third Highway Project:   US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
The maintenance and betterment programs are progressing satisfactorily. Con-
struction work for the pavement strengthening program started in March 1975;
contract amount is about 120 percent over appraisal estimates due to inflation
and modification of design standards. The Government has agreed to finance
all overruns. Construction of the bridge and the urban development study for
Abidjan have been satisfactorily completed.
Cr. No. 406           Fourth Highway Project: US$7.5 million Credit of June 28,
1973; Effectiveness Date: May 8, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Construction works on the road started about one year behind schedule and
progress since then has been slower than expected. Project costs are about
70 percent above appraisal estimates due to inflation and adoption of higher
construction standards than originally envisaged. The Government will assume
financing of all cost overruns. Construction of the N'zi River bridge and
the feeder road study have been satisfactorily completed.
Ln. No. 938           Rubber Plantation Project:   US$8.4 million Loan of
October 23, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to slow progress in the planting program and as a result of higher-than-
expected inflation, funds under this project will only cover plantation of
about 7,000 ha which is not expected to be completed before 1979 (the total
foreseen at appraisal was 13,500 ha). Co-lenders met in January 1976 to
decide on the continuation of the planting program. The Bank has agreed
to amend the Loan Agreement to reflect the reduced planting (Memorandum
to the Executive Directors R-76-240 of September 29, 1976).
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:   US$25.0 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Government has awarded the contract for switching equipment to other than
the lowest evaluated bidder. Thus the amount earmarked under this loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) has been
cancelled as of May 17, 1977 (R77-128). Financing by the Bank of the remaining
three components is expected to proceed in accordance with the guidelines.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
More than 50 percent of the total planting foreseen for the five-year project
period was completed in 1976. Block plantings have been lagging behind due to



- 35 -
ANNEX II(a)
difficulties in infrastructure development. Disbursements are currently two
years behind project execution due to problems in establishing a system to
provide the necessary documentation and format for withdrawal applications. A
recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement to have withdrawal
applications prepared by the executing agency should speed up the process.
Ln. No. 1076          Abidlan Sewerage and Drainage Prolect:   US$9.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975: Effectiveness Date: January 19,
1976: Closing Date: June 30. 1979.
After about one year's delays due to procurement decisions, the project is now
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Prolect:   US$31.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4. 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Physical progress of the project under CIDT is in line with appraisal estimates
and overall performance of CIDT is satisfactory. As a result of overestimated
increase in demand for food crops, marketing of the crops has caused problems.
Although the village water supply and feeder road program was originally
delayed, appropriate measures have now been taken to implement both programs.
Disbursements are currently two years behind project execution due to problems
in establishing a system to provide the necessary documentation and format for
withdrawal applications. A recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amortis-
sement to have withdrawal applications prepared by the executing agency should
speed up the process.
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30. 1981.
Three sub-projects (US$2.9 million, US$2.5 million and US$400,000) have been
approved.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Proiect:  US$5.0 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 9. 1975: Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Good progress is being made in provision of technical assistance. The studies
of regional training needs, legislation for vocational training and management
of educational TV are under way; plans are well advanced for the preparation of
an inventory of secondary school facilities. The design of project institutions
is some twelve months behind schedule, but is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30. i979.
Construction of the Anyama-Agboville road and the pavement strengthening pro-
gram started at the beginning of 1976. Consultants have started the engi-
neering studies provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to



- 36 -
ANNEX II(a)
finance the updating of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack
of funds. The Government has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include
financing of the survey in this loan.
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Project:   US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The first two sub-project have been approved; others are being prepared by
Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire, the project's financial intermediary, and are
expected to be submitted to the Bank shortly.
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8.0 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The first three sub-projects have been approved; others are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1297          CIMAO Project:  US$3.5 million Loan of June 28. 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31. 1980; not yet effective.
The first regional industrial venture in West Africa, co-financed by seven
other official aid agencies, is proceeding satisfactorily. Financing arrange-
ments are on schedule. Procurement for the industrial components is proceeding
according to plan.
Ln. No. 1347      Urban Development Project:   US$44.0 million.  Loans (US$30.0
and 1348-T       million and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third Window terms
respectively) of December 15, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980; not yet effective.
Work has started on the East-West Highway and most of the contracts for studies
and technical assistance have been awarded. Bidding documnents for the
shelter component are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1382      Fourth Oil Palm Project:  US$20 million Loan of March 30. 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979; not yet effective.
Plantation for the first year is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1484      Secondary Centers' Water Supply Project:   US$16.0 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Closing Date:    September 30, 1981;
not yet effective.



- 37 -
ANNEX II(b)
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of August 31, 1977)
(US$ million)
Credit                                                    Amount  (less cancellations)
Number     Year      Borrower        Purpose               IDA        Undisbursed
Three Credits fully disbursed                              5.8            -
225-UV     1970     Republic of      West Volta Cotton     6.2           0.1
Upper Volta
430-UV     1973     Republic of      Education             2.9           1.9
Upper Volta
431-UV      1973     Republic of     Telecommunications    4.5           0.8
Upper Volta
442-UV      1973     Republic of     Drought Relief        2.0           0.0*
Upper Volta
316-2-UV    1974     Republic of     Roads                 1.3           0.7
Upper Volta
496-UV     1974     Republic of      Bougouriba Agricul-   8.0           5.1
Upper Volta      tural Development
557-UV     1975      Republic of     Livestock Develop-    9.0           8.7
Upper Volta      ment Project
579-UV      1975     Republic of     Rural Roads           7.5           6.5
Upper Volta
640-UV     1976     Republic of      Rural Development     9.4           8.8
Upper Volta      Fund II
653-UV     1976     Republic of      Roads III            20.0          17.0
Upper Volta
706-UV 2/  1977     Republic of      Agricultural          3.6           3.6
Upper Volta      Development
80.2          53.2
TOTAL
of which has been repaid                           -
TOTAL now held by IDA 1/                             80.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                                  53.2
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment of US$0.2 million.
2/   Not yet effective
*    US$33,201.53 undisbursed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II(b)
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1977)
NIL
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 225:    West Volta Cotton Project.   US$6.2 Million Credit of December 30,
1970; Effective Date: May 1, 1971; Closing Date: December 31,
1976 - Extended to December 31, 1977
The project is part of a cotton production development program
in West Volta, which originally started with FAC financing in 1963. It
consists of expansion of cotton cultivation, improvement of yields, credit and
extension services, and provision of better communications and processing
facilities. The project also includes funds for detailed engineering of
secondary roads and preparation of the Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project, both of which have been completed. The total area under cotton in
1976/77 will be 32,000 ha more than in 1970/71, about in line with appraisal
estimates. However, seed cotton output in 1976/77 is expected to be 38,500
tons higher than that of 1970/71 thus exceeding appraisal estimates of incre-
mental production by 17 percent. Due to lagging cotton production during
early project years which were drought years, no additional ginnery was
constructed at Hounde. Good progress was made in the improvement and main-
tenance of the feeder road network in the project area.
Credit 316:     Road Project.  US$4.15 Million Credit of June 26, 1972 (As
amended on March 25, 1974); Effective Date: December 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project originally comprised: (a) the reconstruction of
the Solenzo-Koudougou (70 km) and Hounde-Bereba (27 km) roads, and (b) feasi-
bility studies for about 400 km of primary roads, and engineering of those
sections found to have the highest priority. Construction of the Solenzo-
Koudougou road began in March 1974 and is now completed. Construction of the
Hounde-Bereba road was deleted from the project as cotton production did
not merit the construction of a ginnery at Hounde and without the ginnery
there was no justification for the road.   These funds were transferred to a
drainage works construction component bids for which have just been sent out.
Regarding part (b) out of four proposed roads only two, from Banfora to
Bobo-Dioulasso and from Bobo-Dioulasso to Hounde (a total of 190 km) were
selected for feasibility studies as these were the only roads which showed a
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which
are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 39 -
ANNEX II(b)
preliminary satisfactory rate of return. Construction began on the road
component of the Third Highway project (Cr. 653-UV) on the basis of these
completed engineering and feasibility studies in March 1977. Due to currency
realignment and to cost overruns on the road construction part of the project,
the dollar cost of the project increased. Consequently, to enable project
completion, on March 25, 1974 the Association approved an increase in the
amount of the credit from US$2.8 million to US$4.15 million.
Credit 430:    Education Project.   US$2.85 Million Credit of September 28, 1973;
Effective Date: June 27, 1974; Closing Date: June 30. 1979
The project was designed to improve the quality and enlarge the
scope of rural education in the Regional Development Agencies (ORDs) of
Dedougou, Koudougou, and Kaya. The project originally provided for: (a) the
construction and equipping of 40 centers, and the equipping of 80 existing
centers for the training of young farmers (CFJAs), (b) the organization,
equipping, and servicing of 150 post-school cooperative groups for young
farmers over 18 years of age; (c) the creation of three rural development
training centers; (d) the provision of science laboratories for 21 secondary
schools; and (e) related and supporting technical assistance for project
implementation. The three rural development training centers were originally
provided under the project to train graduates of rural education centers as
rural development agents. However, as project implementation has been de-
layed, it is unlikely that graduates will be ready for further training as
rural development agents during the project period. Therefore the component
was deleted from the project, and the funds released will be used to provide
additional support facilities and materials for the training of rural educa-
tion instructors and agricultural agents for the group cooperatives. Physical
implementation of the project has been delayed somewhat due to shortage of
cement and some logistical problems experienced by local contractors; con-
struction of most project buildings has commenced however and most of the
equipment has been ordered. Establishment of training centers is proceeding
well, but difficulties have been encountered in the training of instructors,
and in the establishment of young Farmers' Cooperative Groups.
Credit 431:    Second Telecommunications Project.   US$4.5 Million Credit of
September 28, 1973; Effective Date: May 23, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Credit was approved on June 21, 1973, signed on September 28,
1973, and became effective on May 23, 1974. This Credit, the second made to
Upper Volta for telecommunications, finances the major part of Upper Volta's
1974-77 telecommunications expansion program. The project comprises provision
of automatic and trunk switching equipment, local distribution networks and
subscribers' apparatus, microwave links, auxilliary construction and equip-
ment, consultants' services and training of personnel. The executing agency
for the project is the "Office des Postes et Telecommunications de Haute-
Volta" (OPT), a semi-autonomous public entity. The project execution is on
schedule. All contracts were awarded by the end of 1975, and the project
costs have increased only slightly, mainly for local costs, and the IDA



- 40 -
ANNEX II(b)
credit is judged sufficient to cover the project's foreign exchange require-
ments. The financial results for the year ending December 31, 1974 were
satisfactory; however, OPT's financial situation for the years 1975-77 is
projected to deteriorate. OPT has received a loan from Government to help it
restore its cash flow position and finance building costs.
Credit 442:    Drought Relief Project.   US$2.0 Million Credit of December 7,
1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1976 - Extended to December 31, 1977
This is one of six credits made available to the Sahelian
countries to help people in drought affected areas re-establish food self-
sufficiency. In Upper Volta the project is executed by the Rural Development
Fund established under Credit 317-UV. The project originally envisaged four
sub-projects; (i) construction and equipment of 150 tube-wells; (ii) con-
struction of three earth dams; (iii) purchase of road equipment for repair of
feeder roads; (iv) construction of six seed storage warehouses. Procurement
has been completed, but the execution of the tube-well drilling program, the
most important component of the project, began only recently. The delay of
almost one year is due to default by suppliers of vehicle parts and drilling
pipes. 75 wells have been completed thus far. Project completion was extended
by one year to allow for completion of tubewell drilling program.
Credit 496:    Bougouriba AgricultufaL Development Project.    US$8.0 Million
Credit of July 19. 1974; Effective Date: July 18, 1975;
Closing Date: May 31, 1979
The project, to be carried out over a four year period, is
the first major effort to develop the natural and human resources of the
Bougouriba ORD. The project will concentrate on the areas presently free of
onchocerciasis and includes food crop and cotton development, a program for
prophylactic vaccinations of livestock, provision of agricultural credit and
extension services, well construction, feeder road improvement, intensive
staff training, applied research and road studies. The project has made
progress in its first year of operation. Management is competent and has
begun a substantial staff training-program, surveys of the ORD to monitor
agricultural and livestock activities, the re-shaping of 263 km of roads, and
the gravelling of 18 km of roads, the construction of earthworks and small
structures, and the establishment of seed farms. The project accounting
service is fully operational. A follow-up project for the area is presently
under consideration.
Credit 557:    Livestock Development Project.    US$9.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; Effective Date: November 24. 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project, to be carried out over five years, is a broadly
based program to assist cattle production in the Dedougou and Bobo-Dioulasso
ORDs through group ranch development, the improvement of veterinary services,
livestock marketing, meat processing and the provision of technical assistance.



- 41 -
ANNEX 11(b)
It will help about 300,000 traditional cattle producers, and introduce com-
mercial ranching to the traditional sector. The project is running behind
schedule; only the investment programs for the Project Unit and the animal
health component are proceeding as originally projected; however, planning for
the Group Ranch Center, the rehabilitation of the Bobo-Dioulasso abattoir and
the livestock marketing component is sufficiently advanced, that no future
slippages are expected to occur with regard to these three components. Group
ranch development has proceeded slowly; nevertheless, the site for the first
18.000 ha group ranch has been selected, and Government has issued the group
ranch statute. A consultant will be engaged to write up the accounts for
audit, following the sudden departure of the expatriate project accountant.
Credit 579:    Rural Roads Project.   US$7.5 Million Credit of August 13, 1975;
Effective Date: February 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
The project, to be carried out over four years, provides for
the improvement and subsequent maintenance of about 1,200 km of rural roads,
and maintenance of about 2,100 km of existing roads, the strengthening of the
Service d'Entretien des Routes Secondaires (SERS) through technical assistance
to the Ministry of Public Works, and the implementation of the above road
program and procurement of highway equipment. All equipment should be
delivered on schedule. Recruitment of local personnel is advancing well.
Terms of reference for an evaluation and impact study have been discussed with
the Government.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Project.   US$9.4 Million Credit
of June 21. 1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project will be carried out over five years (1976/77
through 1979/80), and will provide a line of credit to the Rural Development
Fund (Fonds de Developpement Rural - FDR) for investment in small-scale rural
projects, the main purpose of which would be to increase crop production and
improve village water supplies. Program activities will include: bottomland
development (2,700 ha); erosion control works (9,200 ha); small scale irriga-
tion and improved bottomland development (500 ha); construction of 520 wells,
180 tube-wells, 400 village warehouses and 20 village centers; provision of
medium term credit for agricultural equipment, US$0.5 million equivalent; and
provision for unidentified projects. In addition, studies for economic dev-
elopment of areas freed from onchocerciasis will also be financed under the
project. Project Management has begun staff recruitment and the procurement
of vehicles and equipment.



- 42 -
ANNEX II(b)
Credit 653:    Third Highway Project.   US$20 Million Credit of July 15, 1976;
Effective Date: December 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of (a) the reconstruction to paved standard
of the Banfora-Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde road (182 km) comprising the most import-
ant transportation link in the high potential agricultural region of the South-
west, (b) the procurement of equipment for vehicle weight control including
provision of fixed facilities for installation and traffic counting equipment,
(c) consulting services for a study of road maintenance and pre-investment
studies for about 150 km of roads. Consultants will also be expected to
formulate a long-range maintenance study, (d) technical assistance for
strengthening the Directorate of Transport (DOT) and assisting the Office de
Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique (OPEV) in the promotion of the domestic
civil works industry.
Credit 706:    West Volta Agricultural Development Project.   US$3.6 million
Credit of May 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982: Not Yet
Effective.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I
Timetable of Key Events
a) Project Identification
Bank missions to discuss scope of project          January/February
and June 1975
b) Project Preparation
Studies prepared by RAN and the Bank               January 1975
to October 1976
c)  Pre-Appraisal                                      June/July 1976
d)  Appraisal                                          September/October 1976
e)  Co-lenders Meeting                                 February 1977
f)   Negotiations Completed                            July 1977
g)   Loan Effectiveness Planned                        January 1978
SECTION II
Special Bank Implementation Action
a) Procurement advice and assistance in preparing bidding documents.
b) Technical Assistance under the project to help improve railways
efficiency to meet operational and financial targets.
SECTION III
Special Conditions
1. Special conditions included in the legal documents are that:
a) a study would be carried out to determine the effect of
rail/road subsidies on the modal allocation of traffic
and make recommendations on changes needed in the subsidy
and taxation system to improve the distribution of traffic
(para. 47);



- 44 -
ANNEX III
b) RAN will (i) endeavor to maintain through 1978 a staff of not more
than 5,200 people; and (ii) prepare by June 1978 a draft five-
year (1978-82) manpower plan (para. 50);
c) RAN would consult with the Bank annually on the railway's expected
technical assistance requirements and on measures necessary to meet
them (para. 51);
d) an operational plan of action is agreed upon with RAN (para. 53);
e) RAN would, beginning with FY 1978, submit to the Bank both operational
and investment budgets for review at least 30 days before the date
scheduled for consideration of these budgets by RAN's Board (para.
56);
f) investment decisions on four infrastructure components costing an
estimated US$45 million should be taken in consultation with the Bank
(para. 57);
g) RAN's five-year investment plan should be updated annually in consul-
tation with the Bank and RAN would not make any investment before
this review (para. 57);
h)  the study on the Petionara-Tafire section would be completed and
reviewed by RAN in consultation with the Ivory Coast, the Bank and the
EIB no later than June 30, 1978; (para. 60); and
i) a portion of the IDA Credit to Upper Volta would be onlent to RAN at
conditions identical to those of the Bank Loan to RAN (para. 68);
j) RAN's accounts would be audited by independent qualified auditors,
according to generally accepted auditing principles (para. 73);
k) RAN would achieve (i) a working ratio of not more than 78 percent in
1978 and 75 percent thereafter and (ii) not contract any debt if a
debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 is not met (para. 74);
1) the two Governments would agree to more timely payments of their con-
tributions to RAN (para. 75);
m) by December 31, 1979 the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta would carry out
a review in consultation with the Borrower and the Bank regarding
the adequacy of the financial contribution system with a view of
possibly reducing the Government contributions; (para. 75); and
n) the Governments of Ivory Coast and Upper Volta would take measures to
protect RAN's cash position if necessary (para. 78).



- 45 -
ANNEX III
2. Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
a) effectiveness of the Financing Agreements between CIDA and the
Governments of the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta (para. 70); and
b) effectiveness of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Govern-
ments of Upper Volta and RAN for the CIDA loan to be onlent to RANJ
(para. 70).
3. A special default clause would provide a right of recourse for the Bank if
any action initiated by either the Government of Ivory Coast or Upper Volta,
beyond the control of RAN, would result in a border closure and thus in
substantially interrupted railway traffic (para. 79).






IBRD 12752R
M  A/ |eS,NIH   AGRA TUNISIA
MALI                                                             S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACNSH:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- ~~~~~~ALGERIA LBA
D -   g         kV ~~~~*'  - D oD,V ---  \                        g  ,      I  \.K.      s
M A L I 
J  tt; jz ( lB  2v D n O -_ \ Q                                      ()) TRACK RENEWA_  _      K     ,
_   NIGER{J ff ff s 1  V 1 !  r gO  z \ (SX sf,.]l kX j                ADDITIONAL BLASTIMALI
UAHIGOUYA,                                                  J lAM E  SENEALV'  NIGER
Ba,salogh.               EY-CHAD
GUIN EA\A-'n  y"UPP ER. 
BISSAU <GUINEA  VOLTA )
0-6AMAKO
T,, Ni0              LEORE IA OQ T   NI GERIA , AR
N'GO  VS~~~~~~~~~~-~G
<--tCs>~~~~~~~~~ \DIOULN< ASSOp  , O                 00    20 0r--cde\TIN                 ONDRE
12)
0  ARA       IEBUGOU      LEO  PO                        BENIN
-~~-*  ~ ~ ~   *                 To Ternole ~~~~IVORY COAST- UPPER VOLTA
O \ nPedrREGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
D OENNE A     )  RESE   O -  .\PROPOSED                                            REALIGNMENT
/KGRH900 ~~~~~~~KOOETRACK RENEWAL
NATIONA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REPAIR OF               ERODED FILLS
GUIN          PAFiK                                             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLEEPER RENEWAL (1 1 year program)
O ADDITIONAL BALLASTING
B 1. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I$---4RAI LWAYS
-     , Ga Bry           P  drlPAVED) ROADS  B.-
v' 4 Gulf of Guinea .h... - 0.6fl.jGRAVEL ROADS
NATION   ile                                   -  -  -  - ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~EARTH  ROADS
Doookoee ~~I -.                                                                AI RPORTS
si. ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0  10 20        300
0,  lo,  7)o  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iebo,dress,oo,i,Ri  t, d.it
B4 ' BA'
ANDRA  a. -LhMAYB.1977



